ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the April 6th briefing. In today's Question Time, the following ministers will take part in the duties of Prime Minister Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, Kalle Laanet, Minister of Defence, and Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U2	24 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 77 are absent. Today, ten topics have been put forward for Question Time. I have a request for cooperation or a proposal that we may ask a question to be specific to each question and an additional question. If that's okay, we could get started.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U3	The first question is asked by Lauri Läänemets, a member of the Riigikogu, Kalle Laanet, the Minister of Defence of the Government answers this question, and the topic is the salaries of the stateguards. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! I am interested in the so-called social guarantees of active employees, in the sense of social that [guarantees] in the form of wages, and in the future that our national defences welcome. In fact, for two years, we have had a special pension system for new members of the national defence system, for active workers, no longer working, and it is no longer working for them. They are ordinary workers, as in some companies or public institutions, and the only thing that keeps them in national defence work is high motivation and the same salary, which is 1.3 Estonian average. But first, let us remember that 30% more than the Estonian average is [the average of active civil servants], which means that part gets more, part gets less. Finally, the average wage is hidden by a small devil in that sense, that if certain operatives, such as the Scouts Battalion, are removed from there, it turns out that the average wage is not so great for many. This average affects all the time. The concern is that there is nothing left to keep the public defenders at work for a long and long time. It was a profession, now it's a regular job, you do it for ten years, and you go somewhere else. But in national defence, it is very important that those planning battles and national defence have mission experience, combat experience and all other experience, and that they have this [work] for 20 to 30 years. I have a question as to whether the government has any plans to compensate for this special pension system, to bring something in its place. What's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U5	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Especially in today's security environment, the state of our stateguards, where they should move and how they are motivated has been increasingly evident. In this sense, the questioner clearly described today's situation, where all active troops can really get paid with a coefficient of 1.3. Let's see what the average wages are. If we look at the Defence Forces, there's a gross wage of 2200 euros, and if we compare it with the pay of the Defence League's active troops, that's 2,500 euros. Of course, there are different amounts at the top and bottom. Does the young person who chooses the profession of a military officer wonder if he or she is going to receive a special pension or not? State policy has been to abolish special pensions. They were lost, weren't they? Consequently, the primary income is, of course, important, especially for young people. You are not waiting for your retirement to begin, but you need to cover your expenses today, especially if you create a family, come from children and you have [needed to cover] primary needs. That is certainly a priority. Let's look at the sectors with the uniforms. They're relatively similar. We cannot only look at the Defence Forces or the Defence League, but we must look at the country as a whole, those who do similar work and defend the country either on the side of internal security or on the side of external security. Of course, the Defence Forces and the Defence League have opportunities for active troops to go on missions, missions, so that the income is certainly higher than the salary. By the end of the day, it's all about income.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U7	Now, the question to be specified, Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U8	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I understand the government has no intention of doing anything. But I'd like to keep going from the beginning. You know, not everyone goes on missions and off missions, most don't go on missions, you could say. Ultimately, if we compare salaries, then the logistics, the communication people, the IT people working in the Defence Forces, you know, would get three or four or at least two or three times more wages in the private sector. In this sense, this normal salary is not competitive and they are being bought over. Perhaps in the long term, we are at risk of suffering from our country's defence capabilities. I think it's a big problem. If the government has any kind of plan to do anything here, please tell me. But my question is more about the Defence League. We have participated in some debates with you where I mentioned that this year the Defence League had to cut its budget by 5% and they have a duty to cut their budget by 2% next year. Where this obligation comes from, whether it comes from the Ministry of Defence or the Defence Forces, or how it comes from, it doesn't matter, they do. Ultimately, this money comes from the state, the government is the main decision-maker there sometimes to make them do it. And they did. You said you didn't. Unfortunately, the entire Defence League, when I've asked over, has said it's been done. As salaries account for two thirds of the Defence League budget, this also comes at the expense of staff. My question is this: will this cuts in the Defence Union budget stop now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U9	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U10	Thank you. Thank you for your question. A little misinformation was inside your question, but this information may, of course, be distorted. Firstly, all the sub-offices that are in the area of the Ministry of Defence have been asked that if the priorities change during this year, which is your proposals, how these priorities can be re-educated. Therefore, in order to cover the concerns that have arisen over the year, even the same increase in energy prices, whether or not the same, that we have been helping Poland and Lithuania during the year, let alone Ukraine, these trends are changing from time to time. At present, no decisions have been made in the Ministry of Defence or by the Minister of Defence to cut 2% of anything. This isn't right. I would like to say so much about salaries that the Defence Forces and the Defence League received an 11.3% increase in the pay fund of 2022. It will be distributed among all these people. So I can't tell you something went down somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U11	Now one more question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, the flag of each country is a symbol of its country and its power. The flag has died in history and the flag has been protected from the last man. Unfortunately, in a mission camp in the European Union, there was such a case in Mali that on the nights of 18 and 19 March [between], two Spanish soldiers ripped the Estonian flag and ripped it in half. This event was revealed and informed by one of the Latvian female soldiers on the mission. Are we acting like peasant pops who dare not show any reaction, or are you going to present some sort of note to the Spanish government for desecrating our flag?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U13	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U14	Thank you. Thank you so much for the information, I'm hearing it for the first time. If that is true, it is extremely regrettable. I'll check it out, we'll make a decision, and I'll inform you about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U15	Thank you. The question is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U16	Let's move on to the second question. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, which is answered by the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab in the role of Prime Minister and the subject is security. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U17	Thank you. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. My question concerns Russia's aggression against Ukraine and Estonia's actions. We can see that Russia's activities in Ukraine have today taken on the scale of the genocide and, following the retreating Russian troops, it has shown that war crimes are likely to have been committed quite heavily there. The picture we're picking up is more and more horrifying. My question concerns the activities of Estonia. We have been active, and I would say that the locomotives that we have requested from other countries on the implementation of various sanctions, as well as from Ukraine on assistance, have been very demanding. But diplomacy is also a weapon that we must make the most of. Diplomacy is also the language of signs and symbols. Lithuania has decided to expel the Russian ambassador. Several of our MEPs have expressed the opinion that Estonia should do the same. The Fatherland has proposed that the least we can do is call the Estonian Ambassador back from Moscow and send out the Russian Ambassador. Unfortunately, the government has not responded to this, although it has been vigorously dealt with by ordinary secondary diplomats in order to send them out. But as I said, diplomacy is also a language of symbols. The position of the ambassador is very important; he represents the country. We cannot maintain normal relations with Russia at the moment. Please tell us how much [people] and bombed cities have to be killed in Ukraine, so that the Estonian state takes this diplomatic step and sends the Russian ambassador out of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U18	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U19	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! As you yourself mentioned, Estonia has actually taken very many steps. Indeed, among our partners, how to say, both on the eastern wing of the European Union and on the eastern wing of NATO, we have been locomotives in terms of sanctions, helping Ukraine with weapons, humanitarian aid, and the reception of war refugees. We cannot say in any way that Estonia has done little. As far as these diplomatic relations and various moves are concerned, we have tried to coordinate these moves. If it was [the story] of the expulsion of diplomats, then in fact, several European Union countries at the same time sent out Russian diplomats. That was a few weeks ago. Certainly, in the view of the events to which you referred, this aggression has become truly a disaster or a war crime [signs]. Well, we may have suspected that before, but now there's evidence. I have to say that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who is designing various moves, is also carrying these sanctions packages and making proposals for them, made such a proposal yesterday. Really, some countries, I think Lithuania, sent out the ambassador. The reasons why we shut down the consulates or sent out [the diplomats] were the reasons of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a more effective solution in this situation than simply a symbolic expulsion of the ambassador. There are certain considerations: if the ambassador is here, there will be no diplomatic communication, but there will be complaints to the ambassador. That is what we have done, and we will probably continue to do. Is the next move the ambassador's expulsion? It could definitely be under consideration. I'm not gonna rule it out. But at what point it comes, we need to agree on our action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U20	Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U21	Thank you. I encourage and still convey this message in the form of a note that, in my opinion, it is very clear that the time is ripe for such a diplomatic step to send the Russian ambassador out of Estonia and recall the Estonian ambassador from Moscow. We cannot now communicate with the Russian state as an aggressor in normal and normal form. This [diplomatic step] is, I say, the minimum necessary. We can certainly send our messages and notes to Moscow via other channels, so the Russian Ambassador does not necessarily have to reside in the centre of Tallinn. So my proposal is not to be late again. Countries have already started taking such steps. Estonia, as a Russian border country, feeling this threat very vitally and seriously, should also be one of the first, not the back joggers. But my second question is that. Internal security is also very important now, and 9 May is coming. In this context, there has been talk of banning symbols and signs that encourage and support the war in Ukraine. The Fatherland submitted a bill on this matter several weeks ago. The government is now presenting its draft as a so-called Brezhnev package, which includes a ban on hate speech, which most parliamentary parties do not support. Is it conscious that the law banning these symbols will not have to be passed? Why is such a game being played? And anyway, why are you coming to Parliament with these Brezhnev packages? The same is true of the processing of the Aliens Act now, where the whole immigration policy is being amended on the issue of refugees, which only concerns third-country nationals, and not relates to refugees. This is also the case with the laws on patient insurance and vaccination damage, which combine different things, pleasant and unpleasant to take or leave. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why does the government do this? Don't you really want to take these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U22	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U23	Thank you for your question. As I said, this ambassador's question is a possible next step. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must certainly say its input here in detail. After all, the decision of the consulates came relatively quickly. That is the reaction to the images we see in Ukraine. We also agreed with Latvia on this. It was still the expulsion of specific diplomats, there was more than one ambassador. I understand that the ambassador's [deportation] is a very symbolic move. Okay. As for the various drafts that have arrived here, it is difficult. These are the questions that are now very sensitive, how to say them. These drafts still come from the government in this form, they are presented by various ministers, they have been supplemented, and they have finally received a nod of the government. I know that a bill has been submitted to the Riigikogu about the symbols, and I really ask you to find a reasonable compromise in the Riigikogu, whether to leave something out of it or to put something in it. I think that the role of the Riigikogu in shaping such laws is now very important and important. I guess these government drafts have come up, how to say, on certain subjects, on urgent procedures. There is also an example of what we had here when we were considering, and which will probably be here tomorrow, the Minister of the Interior can say in more detail that we have made two drafts for the Riigikogu to deal with matters differently. We are trying to keep such a line that there would not be a yes, this Brezhnev package is, of course, a hard name with different topics in one draft together. I understand it will be difficult to accept these drafts. But I very much hope that you will find support for one or the other solution to these issues, too, and that you will be able to resolve these issues. So this is where the government wants strength and asks for your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U24	Now for an additional question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would remind you that the Riigikogu has adopted a statement in a rare consensus calling on free world countries to impose far more extensive sanctions against Russia, which would affect all sectors of the economy, significantly increase arms aid to Ukraine and, most importantly, establish a restricted area in Ukraine. This statement was accepted before the massacre in Butcha came to light before the brutal missile attacks took place on civilian shelters in Mariupoli. What has the Estonian Government done at the level of the European Union, NATO, the UN and other international organisations in order to comply with this Riigikogu guideline, to invite free world countries to take these steps to support Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U26	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U27	Thank you for your question. The government has had a relatively consistent view of the threat situation that has arisen. I would like to remind you that to contribute to a broad range of national defence, we decided even before this aggression and war were initiated by Russia. We have been following the situation, we have worked very hard at international level. I think that the majority of this activity is in line with the principles of [in letter] in the Riigikogu statement that was adopted here. We are taking sanctions: we have also done them unilaterally, whether it is coal-produced oil from Belarus or Yandex, for example. We've always said we're trying to work together. Sanctions are often more effective when they are carried out in cooperation with the European Union and in coordination with NATO partners and the general public around the world. This has been effective, indeed. As for the no-fly zone, I may not be the best answer. You have also heard the reasons why it has not been done so far. I think that Estonia has raised these issues, although perhaps the Minister of Defence can comment better, but we understand pragmatically that as long as the majority of NATO members, or the leading countries, who have the greatest influence there, are not prepared to make this decision, or to practically state that NATO is now in military action with Russia, which is being interpreted in this way, I do not know whether this is right, unfortunately we cannot do so unilaterally. But we'll keep the subject up. For example, we have also been discussing it in the office, which has been brought to the table of the European Union by the Prime Minister, that if we are talking, for example, about buying gas or other energy carriers from Russia, there are several options. We are trying to reduce dependence, we are trying to do it as quickly as possible, including Estonia. These steps have been on our table and decision-making in a very short time, and there will be more. Certainly this proposal, which both the European Union and other members of NATO also consider that if we are still forced to pay for these Russian energy carriers for some time, this money will form a fund so that Ukraine can be restored after the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U28	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U29	Let's move on to question three. It is now that it will be presented by Riigikogu member Rene Kokk, the interior minister Kristian Jaan, and will be the subject of plans for the protection of the civilian population. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this introduction. Minister of the Interior! Due to the war that the Russian Federation has started against the state and people of Ukraine, civil protection has once again come to the top of the agenda in Estonia and our ability to offer protection in similar cases is hoped that this will never happen to the people of Estonia. Recently, there was a television show where the Deputy Director General of the Rescue Board had to answer journalists' questions about our civil defence capabilities. I checked the show myself. To put it mildly, these answers were still very poor. As a result, quite a number of people have approached me to ask what is going on here. If the Director General of the Rescue Board doesn't know how to answer basic questions, we might say that we have a bad thing to say, but not this kind of mist story. What proposals have been made to the Rescue Board during your term of office to improve this situation, and what has been done in the meantime to make this situation better? We know that in the last few decades, this whole area has been for the orphan. But have any steps been taken, and what specific steps have you taken to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U31	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good questioner, thank you in advance! Very correct theme setting, a very good question and it is very good that daily issues of population protection are at the table at large. First, indeed, so far, all the risk scenarios, including those made from the public protection perspective, have been very much based on the risk scenarios that talk more about hybrid threats, the fact that a large number of people from some area may have to be evacuated to another Estonian region. On this basis, indeed, activities have been carried out and plans have been made. Today it is clear that we need to change the threat scenarios, we are already changing. The reason for this is purely what we see today: Russia is capable of carrying out very horrible crimes in Ukraine and is able to continue to surprise everywhere. When we speak more specifically in this view, which I have made and which has been in this government, I would first stress that we have made fundamental decisions of 140 million in a broad-based defence view. This includes the construction of our external borders and two security packages, which have dealt with comprehensive defence, defence costs, as well as non-military development needs, for a total of 140 million. That must be a very big thing we've already done. When we talk about the protection of the population, what we must certainly do as a matter of urgency is the widespread evacuation of the population, especially in the case of a defenceal threat scenario, the ability to hide and the provision of rescue services in an armed conflict area. What do we have? Once again, in the hybrid threat view, we have evacuation sites, evacuation sites for 150,000 people, usually community houses, sports buildings, cultural centers. The Rescue Board has started reviewing and updating the existing national evacuation plan based on new risk scenarios. The Rescue Board's own internal training plan is about to be completed, how to train its own specialists even better. Next year, a country-wide crisis exercise is coming up, CREMEX, which I will not touch again. Financing, indeed, as I mentioned, has already been very well planned, some of the funds already exist, some are becoming more concrete in the additional budget, but also in the state budget for next year. There is a shadow expert group that has already done a very good job, and this needs to be taken forward. By the end of this semester, the aim is to make the first map of shelters about Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva. The next step is also to move forward with the shelters that are in private hands and to find the financial means to build them better in terms of their furnishings. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U33	There is also an additional question from Heiki Hepner, I ask you to prepare yourself. But before that, there's an elaborate question about Rene Kokal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U34	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'll continue with the point of detail. I ask in this way what proposals have been made to you by the board of the Rescue Board as a minister during the time you have been Minister of the Interior. What areas need to be strengthened and what financial resources have been asked what proposals have been made to improve it? Since I have not yet received an answer from the Prime Minister on how much of the additional budget, the 80+ million that comes, goes specifically to the protection of the population and these areas, perhaps you will also say how much it goes there for direct action to make up for these shortcomings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U35	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U36	Thank you. When we are talking specifically about the protection of the population and these amounts, all of this, and also what is the distribution between the years and what is in the additional budget for this year and what is in the national budget strategy, I very much hope that tomorrow will be exactly numerically established. When we talk about this whole package, the comprehensive defence package, internal security, 83 million, half of it is all about security. Perhaps this is the security package, which is broadly intended primarily for the PBAs as an emergency manager in today's situation, in the event of an emergency caused by mass immigration, but also, more specifically, there are budgetary resources for the security package, for example, the Defence Police Department. The rest, roughly 40 million, is linked to the protection of the population. More specifically, this population protection package, if you could say so, is divided into two. One part is very clearly directed to the Rescue Board to build capacity, for example, here I am referring to the demining capacity. The experience of Ukraine shows that demining is an area that needs to be developed further, we need a demining reserve, we need to better protect the demining community when we look at the threat scenarios that have come true in Ukraine. That's a pretty big part there. For example, vehicles with armoured protection for demining. When we talk about rescue, for example, rescue teams, there's a great need for development inside, and there's also a budget for collapse escapes. Again, we see in Ukraine how many rescues there have to carry out in situations where people need to be rescued from basically collapsed houses. This capacity needs to be developed further, making this capacity greater in Estonia. If we are talking about the need to improve the collapse rescue and we are once again following the Ukrainian threat scenarios, then it is also necessary to protect the same rescue officers who, in essence, under the bullets and bomb blasts, must carry out such rescue activities. Perhaps we are talking specifically about the personal protective equipment of the rescuers themselves, whether protective helmets, if they have to deal with rescue operations in this situation, for example, in the case of shrapnel vests. Now, on the way forward, talking about the money, which may be going more specifically to the protection of the population, there are budgetary resources for the notification of danger and budgetary resources for the ability to hide. Maybe it's what's meant to protect a person directly, to provide danger information to a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U37	Now for an additional question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U38	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The war in Ukraine has shown us how important shadows and shelters are. Unfortunately, we're just discovering the need. This deficit is also reflected in our legislation. There are some countries from which we should take the example, such as Switzerland, where this issue has been resolved for decades, and Finland, where it is intended, is a relatively good example. Our municipalities are currently predominantly planning general plans. The planning law also lacks, or has been rather briefly addressed, a broad-based national defence, which is precisely the subject of such population protection. There we can find a way to determine the [area] of bathing areas, but where there should be shelters, it is not. Indeed, in the building code, we should fundamentally re-evaluate the fact that every building has already been built with well-designed shelter conditions, that either [the possibility of shelter] is with the building itself or that it will be, as is the case with fire-fighting water abstraction. It should be exactly the same. Hence my question: are you ready to take this initiative so that these legislative shortcomings can be rectified? If so, when can we expect the corresponding drafts in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U39	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U40	Thank you for your question. It's a really good subject again. This concerns specifically the protection of people, more generally the issue of population protection. There are, of course, different angles of approach. The population protection expert group, who has been together for a few years, has focused primarily on the views of shelters: not the construction of shelters, but precisely the existence of shelters, so that there are places where people can hide. These are inherently slightly different things when we talk about shelters or shelters, although some of the mapped shelters may actually be built as shelters in Soviet times, for example. When we talk at law level, this debate is, in any case, welcome to see how it is possible, either on the basis of planning or on the basis of the construction code, to address this issue as well. I think these discussions are welcome. At the same time, if you talk about local governments for a moment, I have visited a lot of them lately myself, then the readiness of the local government, including existing shelters, including that old shelters make it elementary use of all of this requires a certain injection of money. Local authorities also always have the question of whether they have the money themselves, but this capacity and this area of activity I have this feeling of having in most local governments. It has come as a surprise to them that they have it on the territory of the local government, and it has come as a surprise to others. Perhaps it has been very positive, if anything positive can be found here, that we have had a good compulsion to find and map buildings where the population can be protected. But once again, yeah, how to go about it in the future, you gotta think about it here. If we write it in, it will certainly also be financial pressure on each of the next projects, no matter how many people live or are nearby and so on. The person acquiring the real estate will then have to pay for it because the construction is likely to become more expensive. This debate is welcome. In any case, we need to make it more clear quickly, and we are already doing what is possible to hide and how we will move forward with it in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U42	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Heiki Hepner, a member of the Riigikogu, and the defence minister Kalle Laanet responds, and the subject is the defence of the Estonian state. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U43	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, What was exemplary and very good yesterday has become scarce and sometimes unsatisfactory in today's security conditions. We have heard of the government's plans to increase our ammunition reserves in the Defence Forces and create additional military capabilities. Hopefully, at some point, with the additional budget, they will arrive in this Chamber so that we can lock up certain things. There is some uncertainty about whether it is going to be purchased or whether it is going to be relied on as partners in the case of anti-aircraft in the Middle East. I hope that here, too, it will still be very quickly clear to the house whether midland anti-aircraft is being acquired. This is about 1.3 billion, unfortunately, inadequate in my opinion. Military experts have said that, in fact, we would need 2 to 2.5 billion, because what is happening in Ukraine is absolutely appalling, and we have no reason to rely on Russia's mercy. Indeed, when we talk about air protection, we should think about our partners so that we can use them to gain long - distance anti-aircraft capabilities. All of this has been heard by your party, say, military experts. Oskar Luts's "Spring" teacher told Laur Toots that if you can't make two repairs, do one, you'll be good if you do one. I don't think we can approach that today. Hence my question: why has the government chosen the path of such a party? Are we really counting on Putin's mercy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U44	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, good questioner! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Yes, we understand that in this security situation, the issue of defence and defence development is on a daily table. We use the resources that our country has. I am thinking above all of human resources, in order to be able to plan defence activities in the best possible way, to decide in the best possible way what needs to be done, and how best to implement these decisions. At times, it seems to me that we are trying to move at political level with our proposals much faster than the [recommended] specialists in this area. We should listen to both sides and therefore make the best decisions. Yes, I imagine that, two months ago, no one would have believed in this Chamber either that, in essence, within six months, decisions are made in the field of defence for EUR 1 billion. One party is making a financial decision, the other being that decision is being implemented. We know that all procurement processes take time. It's gonna take time to train the actives, including their selection. It's all a long one. Therefore, we also have allies who should cover these gaps during a certain period of time. This means that as long as these power gaps are covered by our allies, we can deal with these processes by increasing our readiness. Is there a billion, two, or three missing in our reasonable readiness to face a potential attacker? I can't tell you that's what military specialists have to tell us. But we must make every effort to ensure that our Estonia is protected in the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U46	Thank you. An additional question on this subject is Riina Sikkut, but there is a further question before that for Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U47	Thank you very much. Indeed, in some ways we are still running with time because time pressure also increases the cost of all investments. If we can make certain decisions more quickly, we can not only increase our defence capabilities to a new level more quickly, but we can also do so more cheaply. But I'd like to ask you about the exercise squares as a follow-up question. Indeed, we are going to make a very large qualitative leap, even at least with the volumes we know from the government's side today, that is 1 to 1.3 billion. But we also know as well that in the north, under the conditions of the Soodla polygon and the central polygon, we do not have a chance to engage in battles under the conditions of the brigade. We also lack the ability to make battle shots on the battalion level in the south, Nursipal. In essence, it means that we acquire weapons, raise it qualitatively to a new level, but we still can't practice. On the right hand side, the readiness will be incomplete. It does not take very much resources, although certainly to some extent it takes, it is not free, it is quite clear. In some cases, land must also be disposed of, and certain preparatory work must be carried out on the soil. But what are these really plans? Because, frankly, I haven't heard much about it. I dare assure you, however, that we, say, top military experts are talking about the 21⁄2 billion that is needed, but the training fields of the Defence Forces are also necessary. What's the Ministry up to here? They should be done in parallel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U48	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U49	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I absolutely agree with you. If we create new powers in Estonia or if we have additional allies, then we have the exercise field in a tight spot, we already have it to some extent today. That, I dare say, is being dealt with. The view is that it is looking at where it is optimal to buy additional exercise courses and negotiate, and some funds have already been made available. But this process is exactly the same as power development in a very long time. You need to negotiate with private owners, there's a lot of disagreements with your neighbors and so on and so forth. I absolutely agree that this is one area that needs to be dealt with every day and all the time to have practice courses. Otherwise, we have little to do with the fact that we have enough British, French, Danish or some third-country soldier here. They don't just come here to hang out in the barracks, they come here to get used to their powers, and, of course, to cooperate with us and the other allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U50	Now for an additional question, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U51	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the classics of literature must be known, and Heiki Hepner very nicely referred to the words of teacher Lauri, which it said to Toots: If there are no two revelations, do one. Often people talk about doing half the work, it's not possible in mathematics, you can do one instead of two. But it didn't sound like the reason teacher Laur said it. It's not that you miss time or do less, or don't try so hard. Teacher Lauri's message was: Do it yourself, don't write off the others, do it yourself. Unlike Heik, I do not think this applies to politicians. When we talk about defence investments, I am very pleased that Minister Laane does not make these decisions himself, but uses the plans made by the Defence Forces, still expert knowledge and recommendations made by specialists. I very much hope that this will continue to be the case, that we will not make political decisions as to how thick a tube or what kind of control system or protective equipment we will acquire. These must be the decisions of specialists. At the same time, there are a number of things that require public debate and political decision-making. There has been a great deal of thought in connection with the war: it is, as far as the development of broad-based national defence is concerned, the granting of additional funding to the Defence League and the active reception of new members, the organisation of training, the extension of the duty of the defence forces to women, the creation of shelters or the active pursuit of the protection of the population. With the exception of defence investments and what comes with the additional budget, how are these decisions in the case of broad-based defence? Shadows, military duty, giving additional resources to the Defence League, how do we move forward with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U52	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U53	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I also believe that literature is definitely a part of security. Let's put it this way, I can't compare what's simpler and what's more complicated. But really, if we have the funds to acquire weapons or weapons systems, then the weapons system is also part of people, infrastructure, training, interaction with others, the human factor in it. We'll take the defence allies from the same broad defence perspective, we'll take the help police, we'll take the volunteers, we'll take the rescuers, we'll take everyone who belongs to it. This is a very serious challenge for our country. I cannot say that it is the easiest way to allocate money, but it is certainly easier than it is that you can find people, train them out, keep their morale high, as is the case in Ukraine, and make them work together. This is a very serious challenge. I just spoke to one of my colleagues this morning. The same comparison: we buy ammunition or armored transporters, we do the heat and they exist, but these people, the volunteers, must be found, they must be motivated and their morals maintained. Today's morale is high, I believe, based on the fact that our independence is, to some extent, in the game, not directly, but indirectly. But if the situation stabilizes, if we can't motivate those people who are willing to contribute today, and if we can't motivate those people who have to pull volunteers, then we've failed. It's a real challenge. This is not an easy challenge and it is not a one-month or one-quarter or one-year challenge, it is a constant challenge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U55	Let's move on to question five. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister, and the topic is to compensate for energy prices and district heating. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister! When sanctions against Russia are imposed, the supply of gas and petroleum products from the east will probably end completely in Estonia. It's also right in the sense that the aggressor should be shown the place. However, we know that we have district heating gas boiler houses across Estonia, which still depend on 100% of the natural gas supplied from Russia. Its price has already risen to the limit of human tolerance. Now, if gas does not come at all, what solutions do you have to offer in this situation? Where will the gas come from, how much it will cost, and when it will be expensive, more expensive than it is now, how and who will be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U57	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U58	Thank you for your question. First of all, yes, the first shock was, as we recall, an increase in the prices of all energy carriers. This government, with the help of the Riigikogu and at least a little bit of easing from its reserve, we have done so. When we are talking about keeping excise duties at a preferential level, which had already been decided by the previous government during the corona crisis, for example, this year it will cost 53 million and it will cost 130 million for universal support measures. So over 180 million have been the cost of [measures] with which we have met different consumers, both people and businesses. As far as gas is concerned, this question of yours mostly concerned gas, it is very difficult to say what will happen even in the coming days. But we have made preparations with the government for what the outcome of the war might come to. The European Union has already already taken at least a decision to reduce its dependence on Russian gas by two thirds this year, i.e. two thirds of the gas coming to the European Union from Russia, to be replaced by either LNG or other energy carriers. If you look at the gas situation in the coming months, the Inčukalns repository has acquired gas and we can use it now, so no room will be cold in the near future, but fundamental decisions must be made by autumn. We're in the middle of making these decisions right now. Different options will be back on the table tomorrow. While we have made one fundamental decision that the infrastructure of the Port of Paldiski must be built up as an investment, it concerns the quay, it concerns the pipe with which LNG can connect to our gas network. The next question is how does that gas get there? This is where we have to consult our neighbors. But I'm sure we're trying to make sure this meeting doesn't end up empty-handed again. We have consulted on this once, but we did not finally come to Estonia with LNG capability. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has proposed that this could be a floating terminal for LNG, which is a quick solution. This would cover Estonia's gas needs so completely that we do not need to worry about gas. The availability is an opera on its own, so everybody wants to get gas, but we definitely have to have that chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U59	Now for the clarification of the question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U60	Thank you. Good minister! You said that some measures had been taken, that is true. But indeed, by now we have seen that families living in apartment buildings are hit hardest by the price of district heating. These measures, which you have already introduced, have already been talking about grants, are no longer in force since April. The weather remains cold, however, and since 1 May, the Competition Authority has introduced new, even higher price caps. When a new heating period begins, the current price caps that have been set and have risen to the heights will not fall anyway. For example, the heat manufacturer Adven, who has district heating boiler houses that supply a large part of Tallinn, but they also have boiler houses elsewhere in Estonia and they work a hundred percent on natural gas, has a new price in Tallinn city centre starting from 1 May 243 euros, in Northern Tallinn 222 euros and in Vändra as early as 25 April 241 euros. On the other hand, the same heat producer's renovated boilerhouse in Viimsi Haabneeme, which allows 85% of cutting wood and only 15% of natural gas to be used, has a current heat price of EUR 81. Perhaps one hundred percent of natural gas-based district heating will be a major problem in the new heating season. My question is: what is the state doing to support the inhabitants of apartment buildings that, not by their own free will, must take advantage of the opportunity to get a hundred percent of the natural gas boiler house warmed up? Is there a plan to quickly reprofil these boiler houses to other heating sources, just as it has been done in Viimsi?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U61	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U62	Thank you for your question. A topical issue for me, too. The day before yesterday we spoke to the President of the honourable Riigikogu participated in this conversation with the municipality of Northern Pärnumaa, where Vändra is located. What did we see? In most areas of Estonia, cutting wood is the heating of cogeneration plants. I do not want to compare myself with others again, but from Latvia and Lithuania we have been much more successful. We have quite industriously reduced gas dependence thanks to these cogeneration plants. Unfortunately, gas is in use in some areas, and now it is a particularly acute issue. The municipality of Põhja-Pärnumaa is looking for solutions with Adven. There really needs to be an investment, but this [work] starts with all kinds of technical details, for example, where there is a piece of land to which a chipping boiler can be made. I'm not going to the detail. Here it is that the State can also support the funds of the next period , but these investments in municipalities are, unfortunately, likely to be opened at the beginning of next year [alles]. So the municipality of Põhja-Pärnu is looking for these solutions. As far as Tallinn is concerned, certain areas are also in Adven's hands. As far as I know, the Competition Authority has announced a procurement to replace this gas-produced heat in these regions. Is there a result? I don't know the last details. The only logical solution would be for this district heating producer to make an investment itself. The second opera is whether the state or local government participates in it with any support. The KIC support will definitely come, but the money for the current period is already out, as far as I know. It is possible to do so from the money of the new period. But I agree that it is not worth waiting for this next heating period again, with hands on your knees, to find solutions. We are trying to find a possible solution with both the local government and the heat producers. There are so many details. I'm more familiar with Northern Pärnumaa. It also turned out that somewhere in the city of Tartu there is a region on the gas, as far as I know. It's one of those gas-fired boiler houses in a smaller area. So let's try to find solutions. I can't say the exact solution right now. The most natural thing is that it is done by this district heating producer himself, so it has been all over Estonia, but it is possible to use the KIK resources. If there is an emergency solution, I think the government should be prepared for it, too, but I owe it to you. This should be resolved for the next heating period. That's what I say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U63	Now for an additional question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U64	Thank you. Good minister! We remember well when Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas gave up the construction of the gas terminal, for which there was readiness and for which there was European Union money, without any justification. He gave up in favour of Finland. Because of the Russian slippers, it didn't come at all. Now we are in a situation where we need a gas terminal again. I would like to ask you about the reasons why we are taking it up so big or are building it, that a mile of quay and 300 metres more of a breakwater in front of it from the rocks that will then be demolished. According to the plans, it should be completed in November. We are saying that we are also supplying Latvia and Finland. Latvia says that they are building their own terminal, and in Finland the third LNG terminal will be completed immediately, so we do not really need gas there. Why do we make such a huge terminal if we could handle half the size of the one that would cost you twice as much? If we take such grandiose action, it is likely that, if only we remain consumers, the price of gas for our people will not be more favourable. Please open up this subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U65	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U66	Thank you for your question. I have dealt with this issue myself, just as the head of the delegation of one party should. That is a very important question now. Of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, who will consider these options and will have to draw up the options from which we choose tomorrow. Yeah, that problem is back to the way it was then, right, working with our neighbors. Let's just say these plans aren't quite clear either. That's my information right now, I can't tell you if it's entirely true that the Latvians won't have anywhere in [terminal] to take to my knowledge, in a year's time, maybe they'll be able to create this terminal. The terminal completed by the Finns covers the need for gas, as far as I know, when it is ready, one third. They're trying to figure out a way to quickly build these terminals. I am absolutely convinced that it is my personal opinion that we should have this terminal. How big and with what capabilities, that's the question of decision-making. This capacity must be developed in any case. To what extent, this is what [say] the same specialists who are currently considering it, different organisations, including Elering, who operates the Balticconnector, or connection to Finland. The Finnish operator, the Finnish state, is being negotiated. Certainly, I believe, this picture will be a little clearer by tomorrow. That is the picture that has changed so quickly, which also concerns Russian gas, because we really want to turn it off at last now. That's what we want. Solutions need to be found here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U68	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Riigikogu, and the defence minister Kalle Laanet responds to it and the subject is wide-ranging national defence. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U69	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable ministers! Dear Minister of Defence! Young people from Paikuse School are sitting on the balcony of the Riigikogu, who are potential developers and protectors of the Estonian state in the future. Undoubtedly, defending the state starts with school, mindset, family, but certainly also the Defence League. With my question in the context of broad-based national defence, I would like to talk about the affairs of the home camp in the context of this whole Russian war of aggression, war crimes, genocide. We know that some 1,700 applications have already been made to join the Defence League. I'm sure they'll come back in time. We also know that the number of fighters in the Defence Forces, the number of participants in military service, is on the rise. We need to integrate and train 10,500 [human] personnel. In fact, I would like to ask you whether additional resources have been provided for the Defence League. One thing is the material side to have the equipment, but the other side clearly concerns training and instructors. The worst thing that can happen to me is that all those who have joined have high expectations, but at one point the Defence League in the context of its instructors, or let us say, in the context of the labour force, cannot meet all those persons in order for them to be reasonably involved in this organisation. It can cause discouragement. I know that this 2% cut is actually still in the Defence League's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U70	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U71	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Good guests! I believe that in the future at least two thirds of these young people will be involved in defending the Estonian state, either on the side of internal security or also with the Defence Forces. Kristian, would you like somebody?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U72	All of them!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U73	I can't do that, ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U74	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U75	The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provide that a member of the Riigikogu asks and you answer. You can't run this briefing, I'm really sorry about that. Mr. Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U76	No, I wasn't driving. I'm sorry! I am absolutely in agreement with you that this objective, we would like the Defence League to have 20,000 defence allies in the next two years, a challenge for all: the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the people of Estonia who are ready to come to this organisation. The second challenge is that those who voluntarily want to join the Defence League do not stand so-called empty, as you said. They must immediately receive what they really want to join or join this organisation: equipment, training and readiness to protect the Estonian state. This is a very serious challenge for both the Defence League and the Defence Forces, as it must be done in cooperation, in synergy. As for the 2% and the cut, I have a request. First of all, do not use the word 'cut-off', because there is no cut-off, but to organisations, the Department of Defence sub-offices have been asked to review their priorities as to how things need to be moved around within their budgets in a changed situation. No one even wanted to cut or take anything away, but they were asked for an opinion. This shows once again how important communication is. The wrong word can fly in this way, that even in the Chamber of the Riigikogu we need to discuss and explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U77	Thank you. Let us move on from here to the point of clarification. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U78	Well, that's why we're here to talk and to make a better understanding of society as a whole. I also communicated with the Chief of the Defence League, Riho None, and asked what the situation was, because we were also told to speak in the group, and there was a very clear reference to this cut. We will not be able to talk about this if the organisation points it out as a problem. That's point one. Point two: in fact, today the Defence League is still operating with a negative budget, because all input prices have gone up for them too, energy consumption and so on. However, when we come back to human capital, to human resources, it is precisely that this is not a one-off cost. If we hire an instructor, we'll probably hire him not for half a year or a year, but for a longer period. We have similar problems in internal security. That is precisely, we would probably still have a very real reaction and give some kind of message from Parliament if we want wide-ranging defence to develop. It also has a very important role to play in this particular context: if at one point men have to go to fight, what happens to their families, how they are treated and so on and so forth. This is one comprehensive approach to this military aggression or situation that may arise and which we must be prepared for. But you can still train, train. It is not equipment, it is certainly the defence allies themselves, if they have a desire and a high motivation to do so. Instructors and those who actually have to take extra time are very important. Because speaking of accession alone: when it was pointed out that there is an instructor in the Defence League today for 80 defence allies, we are now talking about 2000 additional alliances and we cannot put our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U79	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U80	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! Point one, no one's put their heads in the sand. The Chief of the Defence League and the Commander of the Defence Forces have been given the task of drawing a plan, a roadmap, what it should all look like. Yes, in today's war conditions, all the processes have taken place very quickly. From February 24, no one had a difference between night and day. We cannot demand [unnecessary] human [efforts] from people. It's all gonna take a little while. I agree that this 30 million, which has been decided to be allocated to the Defence League two years later, needs to be clarified. That's why I told the two generals that as soon as possible, we need to get a road map, what we're doing, what people and how much it costs. I have a road map in the sense of what these activities could be, but more specifically, what is needed is the number side, how many people are needed to train, instructors, whether it can be done more on the basis of the defence forces, whether the Defence League needs to be taken up. It is perfectly understandable that if we have 7,500 defence allies and we want to reach 9500 by the end of the year and essentially double the number by 2024, we cannot do so with this resource. I understand that very well, and every day we think about it, discussing how best to solve it. We cannot think that we can halve our capacity with the available resource. Even with the introduction of all efficiency measures, this is not possible. In this sense, yes, decisions have come quickly, but the explanation has taken time, because once again: this road map is not very precisely written, we cannot go with half messages and start explaining it again afterwards. I'm afraid that's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U81	Additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U82	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Defense! On Monday, we had a Prime Minister here responding to an inquiry into the renewal of the foundations of security policy, and we also talked about these funding allocations. It's a two-step thing. In the first phase, 380 million have been allocated for defence, 40 million of which go to the Ministry of the Interior, and then 80 million out of 600 million will go to the Ministry of the Interior. The Prime Minister spoke out that half of the second-stage money, or 40 million, will be spent by the Ministry of the Interior to deal with and cover the costs of war refugees. Is it right that the money that should go to every cent to increase our defense ability and fill the power gaps will be used as a closet to the mother - in - law to cover the costs of war refugees? At a time when, in the security crisis, the Ministry of the Interior also urgently needs resources to strengthen and rescue the border guards, the honourable Minister of the Interior has long talked about this, do you think it is right to withdraw 40 million of funds specifically allocated to raising defence expenditure already to cover the costs of refugees at a time when, I repeat, every cent should go to protect our people and our country from a particular military threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U83	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U84	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! The brief answer is what the Minister of the Interior whispered to me that it was going to improve internal security, not for war refugees. I'll keep talking. Yeah. When we look at the refugees of war, when we look at what is happening in Ukraine, it is clear that Ukraine is actually the front line of Estonia. We can take it this way. The fact that the interest of war refugees in Estonia is so high shows, in my opinion, a great deal of confidence in the Estonian people and the state. That's my opinion, you may have a different opinion. We must make every effort to ensure that this war ends as soon as possible with the victory of Ukraine, so that Putin is the one who is the loser, so that he never makes sense to take a look at us. It is once again part of the great whole, the great security. It cannot be that Estonia is a single island somewhere, that it lives and exists regardless of others. It's not like that. So everything we are doing here in Estonia today, also in the context of security, must affect processes in Europe in general and in general, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U85	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U86	Let's move on to question seven. It is asked by Paul Puustusmaa, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister, and the subject is Ukrainian war, refugees, local government. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. First of all, I would like to stress that this issue concerns borders and capabilities. No one doubts this, and the Estonian Conservative People's Party is absolutely convinced of it, as Laane has just said, Minister Laane, that we are at the forefront and we must support Ukraine in every way. This means that when we get to the front line, we take people from there, we take them from there, we are absolutely convinced that there is no other option and option. We are also absolutely convinced that when this difficult time is over, we must make every effort to get them back as soon as possible. Otherwise, we will sink the Ukrainian state. They have to go back and rebuild the country. This is where we have to help. Just a few weeks ago, we learned from the government that our absorption capacity could be 10,000 [people], it had come from the government, it has been said in the media. A few days ago, we learned that we need to increase this capacity because more people are coming. Today, we know that 28000 refugees have come here, plus 35,000 citizens from Russia, a total of 68000, that is around 5% of the Estonian population. I would like to stress that it is not wrong to understand: of course, we must build on our capacity. Here's the question of our ability. With what and how does the state guarantee that those who are distributed to local governments will receive funding? To what extent and within what limits can the local government be sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U88	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U89	Thank you for your question. By way of introduction, I think, as the Minister of Defence said, which we must all understand, that what is happening in Ukraine, this war is affecting everyone in this region and beyond, all over Europe, all over the world. Estonia has tried everything in its power to help Ukraine: with military equipment, humanitarian aid and the reception of women and children fleeing the war. There were certainly plans, different options: those that can be realised quickly, and those that need greater effort and also financial resources. These plans were still not made completely empty, they were considered during the preparations for the crisis. We saw something like this could happen. There were security problems here, including what happened on the Belarusian-Lithuania border, [I thought] what would happen if it reached here. So we could practice it. The current forecast from which the ministries are based has been made in the preparation of an additional budget. Whether it materialises or not, I don't know, but it's up to 50,000 war refugees, we're at least counting on the costs. If there aren't so many, there won't be. If there is more, this obligation must still be fulfilled. As far as Russian citizens from Russia are concerned, the 35,000 who have come here know the exact number of the Kristian Jaani are gone. So there's not much of them left, I can't tell you the exact individual numbers. We've been monitoring the movement at the border, how much has come in, how much has gone out, these numbers we've had ahead of the government. So surely thousands of people have not come here from Russia, not lately. Contributing to the costs of refugees. They came so quickly and so many, for various reasons, no one had probably predicted that this war was so broad, practically throughout the border Russia attacked Ukraine. There were other options on the table that were considered more likely. The number of refugees was very high. The temporary solution was to place them in temporary accommodations. That's what the Social Insurance Board tried to do, but just the second week we agreed that this inevitable part of the aid came to local governments with its own powers, somewhere related-familiar, employers, the local government provides. It is the responsibility of the local government, but it is a public task, so these costs are borne by the State. This fundamental decision has been made, even the ceilings and limits for this service have been set. This money was initially 3.3 million from the reserve and will certainly come from the additional budget. So I dare say it's the Minister of Public Administration, we'll cover the costs, we'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U90	A more specific question, Paul Pulpland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U91	Thank you very much. 3.3 million and 30,000 refugees, that's 107 euros per person. For how long is EUR 107 per person foreseen, and what will the refugee get for this EUR 107?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U92	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U93	This 3.3 million plus 5 million additional budget is unavoidable aid, i.e. initial temporary accommodation, catering, supplies, and small financial assistance if necessary. This is what the local government can quickly give. As regards the acquisition of temporary protection by a refugee, we know that according to the law he is entitled to all services: health care, social services and assistance, income support, school education and so on. These numbers have been calculated by the ministries. This is much higher, but the state guarantees this money to provide education and income support to the local government. This is an iron and statutory obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U94	Now for an additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U95	Thank you, President-in-Office. Once again, Minister Jaak Aab! I'm gonna ask you a question like that. Is it true that the government has signed a contract with a private medical center called Confido to provide medical services to war refugees? We know that Confidos also costs the easiest set of blood tests with a doctor's appointment of several hundred euros. You yourself have now emphasised here, and Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo stresses each time that war refugees are treated equally with our people, which is largely understandable. But I would like to remind you that there are around 100,000 people in Estonia who do not have a health insurance card, health insurance. They don't get any medical services except emergency help. So where is equal treatment here? Can these Estonian people now also contact Confido for medical assistance? How much will it cost the state if there is a contract, or such a plan that war refugees will be served in a private medical centre called Confido?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U96	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U97	Thank you for your question. As regards health care provided to a person with a specific status, which is a temporary international protection under the law, the services provided there, including health care, shall be used. The fact that we have uninsured persons is, of course, a problem. There's 5% of them, as far as I know. If I multiply it by the number of people in Estonia, I get 65000, not 100,000. But that's a problem. Emergency medical care is provided to them. Some family doctors and local authorities are better off, they have secured first-level assistance. But it's a problem, I'm not saying at all that it doesn't exist, and it's been a problem for years. I remember that this problem was already a long time ago when I was Minister of Social Affairs, and it has unfortunately been unsolved so far. As far as this particular agreement is concerned, since a large number of [refugees] came to Tallinn at first, Tallinn has received the greatest burden, maybe these contracts were made in order to provide them with essential health care. On a specific contract, I don't know what he's paying, but I can answer you in writing. I'm gonna write this down and ask the Minister of Health and Labour how these contracts are. I thought it was a primary health check for those who have some medical problems. I'm gonna ask you why it was a choice, what it cost, and so on. I can definitely find out about that. But the fact that an Estonian person is even better insured with health care and health care has been our sacred task for years and decades. I hope that we will move forward, although even in the difficult years of the corona crisis, we have contributed to health care both in previous governments and in the current government. I hope that these problems, of which the main problem is human resources, will be resolved. We have increased the order for doctors and sisters alike. The main bottleneck now is human resources; we also saw it very well during the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U99	Let's move on to question eight. The question is asked by Riigikogu member Riho Breivel, the interior minister Kristian Jaani, and the subject is the activities of border guards and the relationship of control in the event of a military crisis. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This problem, which concerns the protection of our country through border guards, has been my concern for over ten years. I've bullied you, and I've bullied the Secretary of Defense, and I'm gonna bully you, because Carthage must be taken away. Here's the question. With this question, our border guard officers, as well as the Defence Forces officers, have been constantly addressing me, who are hurting the heart about how, on the basis of these conditions, as demonstrated by the experience of the Ukrainian war, where border guards are fighting as part of the defence forces and holding back the enemy, we are still going to resolve this issue with the border guard in the future. It's in the interest of all former border guards, as well as military officers. On this point, I also addressed the National Defence Committee in a letter and I know that this has been discussed. The Committee on National Defence is also positive in that it must be done with military preparation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U101	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U102	Good manager! Good questioner, once again: thank you for this question. It is really very good that we are also dealing with everything that, in the case of broad-based national defence, specifically concerns the surveillance of our borders, because a safe country begins with how well our borders are guarded. Now the border guards. All PPA officials, including border guards, will receive very good training at both the Estonian Academy of Defence and later on in-service training. Our border guards are very professional. As far as cooperation with the Defence Forces is concerned, at the end of last year at the time of the exercise in Okas, during which we placed barbed wire on the external border, it was, frankly, that the very good and practical cooperation between border guards and the Defence Forces took place. The Defence League was also involved and basically became trained and played with leadership, movement, logistics. So very positive. Five years ago, Circa also made a very important decision when the surveillance of our borders was strengthened by the establishment of rapid response units at the border guards. It was a very good decision. We also have high-speed responders in the border guard structures, whose task is slightly different, they have a slightly different training and a slightly different weaponry. At the time of the armament, I would point out that the kind of weapon used by the rapid-reactors of the border guards is the same as that used by the defence forces, that is, the personal firearm carried, is exactly the same. It's also a big deal that we use the same weaponry. Within the framework of the National Defence Development Plan, we have also improved armaments more widely and, once again, acquired better firepower for high-speed responders. But I would stress that this is, of course, primarily linked to border surveillance. If it happens what we do not want, if there is a war, then first we have a very good advance warning[system], for which a good Ministry of Defence is in charge. Of course, the purpose of the threat assessment is to clarify what situation and, until then, the border guard must be on the border and when the same task is already taken over by the Defence Forces in the view of defending the state and the border. That's how it's built up for us. It is also very important that we involve the Defence League and the Defence Forces in strengthening the border guard, if necessary on a daily basis. Yesterday, I introduced a draft law amending the State Border Law in the government, as well as a draft law amending the Law on Law Enforcement. One very important point there is how in the future the Defence League and the Defence Forces could be used more flexibly, even outside the emergency situation. So far, under normal circumstances they have only been able to be used for up to 30 days, and in exceptional circumstances they could be extended. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I very much hope that the honourable Riigikogu will also process and receive what the government will shortly send here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U103	Specific question, Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U104	Minister, thank you very much. I understand all this, but one thing I'm always talking about is that in the times of war, and even as the crisis deepens, we have border guards who are there, they're not going to be taken off the border. I'm not gonna talk tactics. But the principle is that the area between border crossing points, which is a green border, consists of different systems and is covered by border guards. These border guards stay put and do their job. It has therefore been one idea that it may be important to give at all, I repeat, the area between border crossing points, the green border, by analogy, as we are now handing over to the maritime border guard's defence forces through the Ministry of Defence, its protection immediately during peacetime to the defence forces and through the Ministry of Defence. I have been discussing the matter with Mr Laanet, and Laanet says that it is up to the Interior Department to decide: if it says we're going to do this, they're ready to take this thing forward. My proposal is to make the task force clear. It's not an easy thing, it's an important thing to keep our country safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U105	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U106	Yes, I fully agree that border surveillance and state security are not an easy thing, it is serious and difficult. Defence Minister Kalle Laanet and I have, of course, discussed these issues among ourselves. We have a cooperation agreement from last year's Victory Day and, in addition, we have stated what cooperation is between the Defence Forces, the Defence League and border guards, namely in the border area, in the border zone. So we've taken so-called real steps. Today, however, we are talking about border guards during peacetime, the Police and Border Guard Board. I think that makes sense. Again, I'm gonna come back to my last story a little bit. If we have a well-functioning early notification system, if we know what is going on beyond the border, if we know what the next steps are, then this naturally also creates the prerequisites for what changes are taking place at the border. Will border surveillance continue to take place or will border protection take place there? Will this continue to be done by a border guard from the PBA, or will he do so at that moment, if this is the area where it needs to be done, the Defence Forces or the Defence League? This debate is certainly sensible, it keeps the subject up, that is what needs to be done. We have also met and talked about this many times. I thank you very much for this being a matter close to your heart, and so am I. We have both come from the same area in general. But I assure you, our border is very well guarded. If the next step should be taken, it is already the role of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, but in cooperation with our border guards.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U107	Now for an additional question, Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U108	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister of the Interior! We have the Police and Border Guard Board. A few weeks ago, I saw an interview on television with people guarding the border. The uniform was beautiful green, but when the camera was shot down, I saw a big sign on their green uniform, "Police." Have you set the border to guard the police, or have you had the border guard uniform completely ruined? Why the action? Our neighbours in Finland and Latvia are still border guards.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U109	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U110	Thank you for your question. Border guards also guard the border in Estonia, they also receive special training at the National Defence Academy, when the last course specifically selects this specialty as regards border surveillance. The Law Enforcement Act sets out the principle that we call the Police and Border Guard Board and those who work together as special servants there police, but the name of the institution is the Police and Border Guard Board. I guess it doesn't really matter what the sign is on the uniform. We are all police officers, we carry out different tasks: there's a border guard task, there's a research mission, there's a youth police force. Neither do they have a separate label on their breasts. They are all police officers, performing police duties that are included in different laws, and they certainly do so very well, no matter what the label is. When we talk about the border guards again, the function emblem, which is certainly very important, will continue to exist on the sleeve both on the border guards and, for example, on the speediers and on the constables of different regions. But I assure you, this work is done with heart and soul.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U111	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U112	Let's move on to question nine. It is presented by Alar Laneman, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, and the subject is the development of new military capabilities. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen, Hopefully, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will follow today. That's what my question is about. Development of the defence industry is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. Over the years, much has been done, resources have been allocated, there has been support for the development of the defence industry in various forms, there is cooperation with the Defence Industries Association. Now that we are looking at what is happening in the war in Ukraine, we are mainly seeing the trends and changes in warfare, the real conflict. We see the importance of airspace in both intelligence and attacks and see the importance of airspace protection. We are seeing an increasing use of unmanned devices in the air. We see that there has been a change in the actions and tactics of the units. Both Ukrainians and Russians are likely to draw their conclusions, and I think it will be done by all the countries that are closely monitoring it, especially in Europe. Here's my question. With what is Estonia planning to ensure the protection and deterrence of its country in ten to twenty years' time? How is it planned to keep pace here, and how will our defence industry be brought into our economic space as a serious source of economic and service? A good example of Ukraine is the Stigna anti-tank device produced by Ukraine. Who's in charge of this research, how it works, and if there's a plan for the future in the Department of Defense? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U114	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U115	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, good Alar! You, who I think you've been involved with the Defence Industries Association before, know that this cooperation has been in the past. I think it's gotten better all the time. It's just everyday. After all, we have an official in the Ministry of Defence who communicates daily with the Defence Industries Association, in which case we can even say that he, to some extent, represents the Defence Industries Association, does their things. This is a very serious contribution. We have worked very closely with those companies that are members of the Defence Industry Association. The exhibitions that have taken place have been attended by the Ministry, I have been there in order to raise the public profile of Estonian Defence Industries Association companies. What have we agreed? In particular, those companies that want to contribute to the development of Estonia's new capabilities should know where Estonian national defence should go. Consequently, my proposal, too, has always been that, when we are talking, for example, about the 10-year development plan for defence, the defence industry association companies would be involved in this key earlier, so that they would know what direction they are going in, so that, if they have the desire and will to participate in something, they would have the opportunity. After all, we cannot really impose an obligation on private companies to produce one or another ammunition or weaponry, but that should still be their interest. If the Ministry of Defence, together with the Defence Forces, has somehow been able to help the development of Estonian Defence Industries Association companies, to increase our defence capabilities, then we have always had a very open attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U116	Specific question, Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U117	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'd still be interested in a more precise explanation. Do we have any goals, perhaps even to mention areas or specific capabilities that we want to reach? In different countries, there has been a way to get there; they have these defence companies. We have a good basis for this to happen here in Estonia, because our companies run large cooperation projects and so on. Why is this important? Setting these goals is, in fact, a practical need for life. It is known that if there is some very modern, effective solution, tool or weapon, producer countries often do not sell them under pressure or decision from these countries, which means that our weapons may not always come with time. After all, countries also have resources and capabilities that are specific to the needs of the country, no one else is going to produce them, and we have to do it ourselves. I would like to hope that at some point such plans and targets will be reached, their writing. It's okay if they don't work out, but if they don't set a goal, then I'm sure they won't. Somehow you could think through this stimulation process, whether or not there is no vague support, but there is a purpose and whoever fulfils it will receive this support, but whoever does not do it will lose it. I would call for such a specific [target] establishment. Also, is there a future solution engineer in the Ministry of Defence or something like that? I believe there are prerequisites for this in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U118	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U119	Thank you. A lot has been done, a lot has been done. The same thing that last year, with an amount of EUR 200 million, we supported Estonian defence industry companies, which, in fact, when we talk about the defence industry as a sector, is, of course, a small amount. We have different projects among young people, there are competitions to develop new technologies. We have just received a response from the NATO Technology and Innovation Fund, DIANA, we have submitted a joint offer with the United Kingdom, and our joint offer has been successful. This means that we would have possible different developments in London and Estonia, so that we would have serious progress in the field of new technologies, precisely in the defence context. Always, I agree with that, could be more of it. But as they always say, there's this detail about how it all starts to connect and move. This direction exists, and I am sure to support it on two hands. Development plans have been done exactly the same, quite recently. So this cart must be carried by two sides: private enterprise and state in the form of the Ministry of Defence. I don't think there's a horse ahead of me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U120	Additional question, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Kalle! My supplementary question does not directly concern the defence industry, but it is not too far from it either. This year, the Navy is taking over some of the functions performed so far by the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. four vessels and maritime surveillance systems, the maritime border surveillance function and some other civil functions. Yesterday, I heard in the Commission an assessment of the modernisation, replacement of the maritime surveillance system that what the Navy is taking over will end in about 2025 and will go to the size class of 30 million. Then Pikker needs to be replaced and other costs will have to be added. In total, it is a size class of 60 to 70 million. My question is whether it is 60-70 million when we are talking about a conditional third package of reinforcements, which includes mid-earth air control and which comes somewhere in the summer, will be included or will it come up with a separate decision. Where does it come from and where does it go?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U122	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U123	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner, good Leo! I'm gonna be a little more specific. The Riigikogu procedure has been given as regards the package of all drafts, the connection of border guards with the Defence Forces, or Navy. It's still on your desk, and you're going to discuss it. If you agree, this should take place from 1 January 2023. It was for the sake of accuracy. However, as far as specific investments are concerned, this is not taken into account in this so-called third package, but comes to a separate debate in the context of the national budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U124	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U125	Let's move on to question 10. It is presented by Leo Kunnas, met by Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, and the theme is "Modernisation of the State Protection Development Plan 2022 to 2031." Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ministers! Good Kalle! We did not, as we know, approve the 2030-2031 Development Plan until December. At that time there was a so-called second escalation on Ukraine's borders; the first had already taken place. We were rightly critical, because this frame was still only 2%. But now the situation has changed a lot. Mr Heiki made a good overview of the packages of reinforcements here. I repeat the facts already known to us. In January, the first strengthening package, 380 million, of which 40 million will go to broad-based defence, the second strengthening package in March, 562 million, of which 86 million will go to broad-based defence. That's $942 million. We will also have a third package of reinforcements, and I will presumably call it the third one, sometime in the summer, which includes midland anti-aircraft, the sum of which we do not yet know exactly. But it's all gonna be in the size class of 1.3 billion, and we're all aware of those abilities. My question is whether it will be written into the existing National Defence Development Plan as an addition to it or whether a new emergency development plan will be made, for example 2023-2032. What is this step, and when will it be done? It would be wise to do so now, because the situation has changed a lot and decisions are already made in themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U127	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U128	Thank you. Yes, one is such an important document, a ten-year development plan for national defence, but the other is a development plan for the Ministry of Defence, which is four years old, which in today's view is still relatively head-on. In a positive way, on the head, because a lot of things have moved forward from the NCAAK in the KMAK sense, some [things] are additional. In fact, in the sense that these two important documents are synchronised and understandable, we need to review both of them. If, for example, in today's view, we are talking here about a percentage, which is not really perhaps the correct one, because the percentage may always change as a result of the change in GDP, in light of the current decisions, it is indeed the case that in 2022 an additional EUR 15.45 million would come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, in 2023 it would be 114.785 [million], in 2024 133.5 [million] and 2025 would be 213.04 [million]. Plus the possible mid-range anti-aircraft range between 350 million and 500 million. If we're still talking straight about ballistic missiles and defence, we're talking about a billion. They're all those things on the table. This is the state of play.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U129	A further question, please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U130	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, that there will be extra money in the field of defence and that it will be in accordance with the protection plans, then it will go to short-range anti-aircraft or to increase the number of people in defense of the land, we have all been able to read in the paper. The amounts that go to wide-spread national defence are considerably lower. When you answered my first question, you explained that people and their motivation are really the most important and difficult to achieve. I totally agree with that. What, though, is what is being done for extra money in broad defence? What are these thoughts? Indeed, if the development plan goes to supplement or review, has there been discussions about the Defence League, the shelters and, for example, the extension of the obligation of the Defence Forces to women, and what is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U131	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U132	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! How do I say? This year as a whole has been extremely turbulence, both on the side of events and on the side of activities. If we look at the proposals and ideas coming from the public as a result of the sleeve, they come from the hall of the Riigikogu and, of course, from within the organisation, then we can all work in this short time [can't], unless, let's say, the workload of some people is not 40, but 80 and more hours per week. These are ideas that we have not thrown out of the table, we are trying to be open to all thoughts and think about what we can work through in the first order and which will take a little more time. Wide-spread defence is a very beautiful concept. Estonian national defence must be wide-ranging. When we start to decorate it as a whole, let's see how many different components are there, even the same thing, the Defence League, which consists of two or more parts, or five parts, when we start thinking about it, take these things apart and see how to start developing it individually and then tie it together, it's not a one-month job. This requires very long discussions and there are very many nuances, very many details. But we keep moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U133	A more specific question, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U134	Thank you. If these three packages all come true, we can quite safely say that during the whole of the next RES period, that is, the defence costs will exceed 3%. We're gonna get there, and we can actually communicate it with quite a bit of courage. I wouldn't see a problem here. But I'll ask you again. Human resources are quite a challenge, i.e. the number of members of the Defence Forces, and especially the number of members of the Defence Forces in the Defence League who are in active service. Do you already have anything in place how you can see how much should then increase the number of Defence Forces serving in the Defence League who are there, as it were, a so-called professional hired frame? Have you had any personalities yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U135	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U136	Thank you. I absolutely agree that the three packages, the people we have today, are not enough to implement this whole. We understand that this is the development of completely new abilities, the training of new people, the training of volunteers, which requires extra people. The Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the Defence League have drawn up a plan of activities together in general. But the numerical side, how much exactly is needed at some stage of time, is still in the debate. This work is currently underway, and I believe that in the coming weeks, both high-ranking officers will be largely on their way to travel, and we will get this plan together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U137	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U138	Now please give a signal to all members of the Riigikogu who wish to ask. I have a request to you, dear fellow officers, for you to tell me who you are asking, so the minister can prepare. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U139	Thank you, good manager. I have already asked two questions from the Minister of Defence, and this time I will ask the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. With regard to the approach of 9 May and the fact that the draft amendment of the law [of law] has already reached the Riigikogu, I ask your opinion. Is this wording, which has come from the government in the draft, one that would allow Estonian police officers to operate in any situation on 9 May without concern? Do you think that the solutions needed for the crisis could be in a separate draft? If they are linked to conflicting issues, it is very difficult to hope that in this Chamber, despite my support for the entire package of amendments contained in the draft, it will be possible to find support so that it can be processed before 9 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U140	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U141	Thank you for your question. That's a good question. I have also talked to practitioners every day, of course, before discussing this bill in the government and before it reached this honourable Riigikogu. The honourable Riigikogu is, of course, able to carry out this best quality control during the procedure, perhaps to take something out of the draft and add something to it. On the part of practitioners, it is better than nothing if we are specifically talking about § 1511 or the use of symbolism that supports aggression. Yes, it is also possible to intervene proactively in the current legal area, to react within the framework of other legal provisions, but I personally think it is good that there is also a stand-alone rule that speaks specifically of symbolism, not [do not act only] in accordance with other rules. But once again: I think that the honourable Riigikogu can bring the best quality out of this draft, perhaps add something, but perhaps take something out so that there really is a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U142	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U143	Thank you, President-in-Office. My question is to Minister Jaak Aab, whom I also congratulate for giving honest answers to my relatively sharp, direct questions. I'm asking about the strategic export of goods. We know that Ukraine has been not only for Europe, but also for a large part of the third world, a so-called crop barn, but, in connection with the war, probably this year's sowing and probably next year's sowing will be canceled because we do not know what is going on with seeds and fertilisers. We know that Estonia produces twice as much grain as our own country needs. So far, there has been an agreement that the part that covers our country's strategic need will remain with us and the rest will be sold out. But if the lack of cereals in the world is increasing, and the rich Arab countries, for example, offer this autumn a price that is very difficult for our cereal producers to refuse, has the government still thought about what to do so that our people do not starve and can buy four times more expensive bread-bread? Perhaps, in this situation, a ban on the export of strategic goods, for example, should also be introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U144	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U145	Thank you for your question. I guess we're watching the situation that changes from day to day, from hour to hour. As far as this emergency supply is concerned, there have been changes here too. All kinds of emergency supplies are delivered by the Hub. There is a food crisis stock, both physically and through contracts for a certain time. One of the main things is cereals, which are covered by contracts. I can't tell details, but I think it's possible to give you that overview. We are now also scheduled to improve this emergency supply; these amounts are not very high. In general, most of these stocks are covered by contracts that are, yes, problematic in some sort of, say, very serious crisis, military crisis or security crisis. Is there a need for further decisions on cereal stocks? The preliminary information is that at the moment there is nothing to do, we should be able to do, we do not need to limit protectionism or export. Indeed, as you mentioned, cereals are produced or grown in Estonia about twice as much as we consume ourselves, even as feed grain, even though it also goes in and out of the border, both the way and the other way. We will monitor the situation when decisions need to be made, we will definitely do so. There has been no proposal from any of the authorities that we should start restricting anything in terms of export.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U146	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I thank you very much for your questions. Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic, I thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U147	Honourable Riigikogu! We have the opportunity to open the 10th working week session of the VII session on Wednesday. And at the beginning of the sitting, as usual, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. The first one wants to do this is Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U148	In order for us to be able to protect our country, we need not only equipment and armaments but also people who protect this country. And for us to have these people, we need a strong national defence. For us to have a strong desire to defend, we need a sense of nationality, a strong national identity, and a national consciousness. What gives us this self-consciousness? It's a cross-generational bond. Knowing that this land is the legacy of our ancestors, which we will pass on to our descendants. And this is our history memory that connects us to this country. For us to have a strong historical memory, we need to be protected and well-guarded by our historical monuments and our cultural values. Among other things, the monuments and values that bind us to the earliest ancient age, and the same monuments that lie in the bosom of this very land. Now, what are the Ministry of Culture and the Heritage Board doing in this situation? Unfortunately, cuts and redundancies are being dealt with, which have led to the disastrous situation of protecting our heritage and preserving our ancient heritage, as said by 65 archaeologists who recently sent a joint return to the Minister of Culture. The situation is that we will not be able to protect against looting or disintegration from ancient burial sites or findings from them. I have an inquiry here for the Minister of Culture, eight questions, 12 signatures. We expect answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U149	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U150	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Reuben was talking about increasing national feeling and really, really right. The current war situation has also increased our sense of nationality and unity, and politicians could still support it and keep it, not dismantle it. But on behalf of the seven Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to ask why the government is consistently linking the necessary changes to the security crisis and such previously planned changes, which are conflicting, together in the drafts. We saw this in the case of the Aliens Act, now in the case of amendments to the Code of Law Enforcement. What's the purpose? Why do they do that? In fact, we can't expect to be able to process the law enforcement code before 9 May. And if such a goal is that it is a wish, then a cross-party consensus must be sought, a place of cooperation sought. So the first question is why this type of draft is always coming to this house and how consensus between political parties has been sought. Then there is the question of building solidarity in society at large. The threat to the nation state is still coming from behind the eastern border. How can strategic communication create in society an understanding of why we are helping war refugees, what it means for society and what is expected of citizens in the coming months? What are the government plans? And lastly, unfortunately during the corona crisis, there was not much information about how to recognize false facts. Interesting stories are either with the members of the scientific council, with people who are in crisis management, who open the background to decisions, explain and justify their views, often behind the tax wall. In fact, in a crisis situation, there could be an agreement with private media publications so that, for example, the government would make extraordinary compensation and guarantee access to this type of story freely for everyone. Indeed, behind the tax wall was a story about identifying false information. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] False information is available free of charge, and there could also be ways of recognising it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U151	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U152	Okay. I have not used modern options and will report the inquiry on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U153	No more wishes. Two inquiries were received and the Bureau of course their further processing... Ah! Heili Tõnisson is, too. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the State Border Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U155	Well, now we've got it. Perhaps one draft and two inquiries and the Bureau will definitely decide how to deal with them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U156	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U157	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law 382 on the amendment of the Energy Economy Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Chair of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good viewers and listeners! First of all, I will briefly introduce what the point of this draft is, then I will tell you what we have been dealing with here in the meantime, and then we can go to the procedural decisions. The aim of the draft is to transpose into national law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, a directive on renewable energy aimed at increasing the production and consumption of renewable energy in households and at the level of large producers and consumers. These amendments to the transposition of the Directive can be broadly divided into three. Firstly, the national renewable energy targets, the principles of their calculation, together with the issue of certificates of origin. Secondly, boosting and simplifying the consumption of energy from renewable sources for themselves. Thirdly, sustainability criteria for biofuels. Bigger changes. There are four major changes. National renewable energy targets for 2030 will be introduced in the Energy Economy Organisation Act. And they are the same as described in Estonia's national energy and climate plan for 2030. This, as I recall, has been before the Riigikogu before. I'm not gonna say it again. Secondly, the methodology for calculating renewable energy targets, the criteria, will be specified. This is actually this draft probably the most important piece of what it is also expected, that it means this...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U159	Let's keep the hall down a little bit, with little head nods coming from the back lines all the time, so you can't hear what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U160	I might be able to direct it somehow. (Stands microphone.) Oh, I'm turning up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U161	It's basically stuck that we have too much buzzing in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U162	It's better now. Well, I hope you can hear me. In short, the methodology and criteria for calculating renewable energy targets are specified in accordance with the Directive. According to this, biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels, as well as energy produced from them, which do not meet the sustainability and greenhouse gas emission reduction criteria for biofuels, must not be taken into account in the calculation of the renewable energy targets. That was also one wish and one aim why this bill was actually expected. We have previously debated this issue at length, both in the Commission and in this Chamber. This is an important principle that only biomass that complies with these rules should be used. Thirdly, it facilitates the consumption of energy from renewable sources for own use, regulates the creation of renewable energy communities, although the current business code already provides this opportunity to become a renewable energy community, the necessary framework is in place, but for reasons of legal clarity it has been included in the draft. And the fourth largest block is where there's a law on energy management relating to certificates of origin. Other laws have dealt with this in the past, but again in the interests of legal clarity. Now the draft explanatory memorandum is also an important part of it, the minutes of the Economic Commission are usually quite comprehensive, and there is also an important part in the letter that has taken place between the first reading and the second reading. The Commission has discussed this at two working group meetings and at four Commission meetings, so the discussions have been very thorough. A very wide range of energy players, as well as environmental actors, have been met. And these debates have been mainly about whether this law should be even stricter. There has been a search for such a more or less reasonable solution, which the initiator also supports. That is why I also referred before to the fact that the biomass used must meet certain criteria that it has been sustainably mobilized, in a permissive area and so on, otherwise it would not be paid. And one debate, which is not in the proposals for improvement, was also the proposal of the oil company, which said that I might simplify a little bit, the use of food oil as such a fuel additive, their desire to do so more. The originator's position, which also overlapd with the gas union and others, was still to use it to a lesser extent, precisely in order not to discourage the production of biofuels other than domestic biofuels. This was also the content and outcome of the debate. Yeah. And there are a large number of amendments, 22 pieces, some of which are not to be voted on, Nos 2, 4, 6 and 7 because they are proposals from the Socialists. Not because they belong to the sots, they are not subject to the vote, but simply because there was a second voice missing in the committee. The second voice was probably Raimond Kaljulaid at that moment, because Kalvi Tahvi replaced Evgeny Ossinovski, who has left our ranks today. Therefore, unfortunately, they cannot be voted on. And now procedural proposals. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 23 March. In the meantime, it was postponed, perhaps today on the agenda on a proposal from the Commission. Five working days is the deadline for corrections, i.e. the 13th. And the Commission proposes to suspend the second reading. To explain the interruption of the second reading, the reason for this is the lack of communication between the ministries so far, let's say. Maybe I'm doing an injustice here, but the ministries haven't been able to send the necessary improvements themselves and bring them in during this time. I'm referring to the Ministry of the Economy and the Environment. And now Parliament, as always, improves all things. So that would be the summary of my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U163	Colleagues would like to be more specific. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U164	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! There was quite a happy message at the end, because Evgeny was on this committee. I did not know that the Commission proposed to suspend, but that is very nice. But my question is still in the interest of the future procedure. We have a renewable energy target of 42% by 2030. Now, even more so in today's state, where we know what has done with our domestic heating costs in many cities, this ambition should be much greater. The Social Democrats suggested that it be 100%. This did not work in the Commission. But do you dare to allow the Commission to seriously discuss that this will now be discussed at 42% of the next Commission sittings after it has been suspended?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U165	Thank you. I'm sure they'll discuss it. But not even because the Social Democrats are the only ones who think that Estonia could set more ambitious targets, abandon Russian gas or any Russian energy carrier. I would dare say that the general attitude of the Commission, or at least I can express my personal attitude, is very much in line with what Senator John McCain said to the American presidential candidate, that Russia is a gas station pretending to be a country. In any case, it is certainly in the Commission's interest to limit all such opportunities, as far as possible in the economy, and at the earliest possible speed. As far as the European environmental objectives are concerned, already in the past, more ambitious packages of targets have actually come from Europe, which will be discussed in all of the following. But, as I mentioned, the most important part of this draft is the setting of sustainability criteria for biomass, so that it is clear that the biomass used has been stocked according to certain rules, so that not high-quality wood would go into the oven, but would still go into the lowest category of biomass or wood that cannot be used anywhere else. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U166	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U167	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! At the moment, you have very simply explained the principle of biomass. But when I asked the specialists of the European Union Affairs Commission who went to defend Estonia's views, what is the difference between one biomass and, say, wood chips and why it cannot be used, whether they have different origins, they could not be answered. You said in your speech that biomass, which is in accordance with the rules. Should we not rather be based here on our own regional specificities and shape the rules accordingly? Because I understand it's very easy to ban penguins in Africa, but there's nowhere else where the penguins are. We still have to see from our own shit. I was not satisfied with the fact that one is of plant origin and that wood chips are not of plant origin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U168	Thank you. Your questions are always colorful. I may try to respond in a slightly simplified way, because there are a lot of exact sentences in this draft and in the explanatory memorandum. But the goal and desire, in fact, of using different biofuels, chipping wood and whatever it is, is simply to say that it is not stored or collected, say, in bio terms or from areas that are important in nature. That's one. Secondly, that the surplus of biomass or wood, which is generated and can be used in any other way, that is to say to do something else, is not used in combustion, energy, right? This is, in fact, the goal that these criteria should achieve. I think it's perfectly reasonable, from the Estonian point of view, too, if you can use wood or any material with higher added value, then you will do so, right? It is not even a political matter, but rather a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U169	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U170	Good manager! Dear waitress, I read here that today should be the third reading. But I remember we were waiting for you and three ministers here one Wednesday night, and all of you were asleep. Why did you not change the text of the draft text, which is written in black and white, I have now reviewed that on 6 March there will be a third reading. Could have been a little more polite.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U171	Yeah, I think we have some sort of a little outdated rules in this hall that won't allow the materials sent to be repaired. I suspect that might be the reason. Reading the bill in the second reading, I emphasise that today will be interrupted. This means that we will have the opportunity to improve because, in fact, it is obscuring, I dare to point out that here, too, in the draft explanatory memorandum, which has been sent to the Chamber and cannot be changed, it is stated that the Committee on Economic Affairs was dealing with the preparation of the draft for the second reading at two working group meetings and three meetings of the Commission. That's what it says on page one. In fact, we have dealt with four, but the materials sent to the hall cannot be changed in the meantime. So I'm saying that in an age in which information changes rapidly, we should look a little bit at the material for sending documents to our hall. This is a substantive answer to the problem you raised. And the other part, concerning the obstruction and the confrontation of it, we certainly didn't sleep, on the contrary. It was a conscious decision not to help while the Russian Federation is fighting a war in Ukraine to hold back the work of a parliament in a European country. I think it's an activity that corresponds to the characteristics of the fifth column.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U172	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U173	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I am looking at this bill, but we have been very clear about renewable energy in Estonia for the last ten years, when we also think about wind energy, no wind farms have been set up, regardless of who has been in the government. All political parties present in the Riigikogu have been there, but everyone has so far prevented them. Now, recently, during our government, it was launched, and in your time, there was a chance that radars and wind farms would emerge. But now I hear again that the government is obstructing the establishment of wind farms. The possibility of connecting solar panels parks is not granted because they are not networked. What role does Elering play in all of this? Does Elering really think about how to lower the energy prices of Estonian entrepreneurs and people or...? Is there any way to resolve this in this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U174	Thank you for your question. I dare say that Elering is thinking almost every day about how more renewable energy could be used in Estonia, more affordable and better security of supply. That question was so wide. And the fact that the state or government is not in any way involved in making connections, we can all refer to bottlenecks in the existing network, but in fact in some places networks and wind farms need to be rebuilt. So far, indeed, you are right, historically there has been a restriction on the construction of wind farms in certain areas due to the national defence objectives of Estonia. If they are built around, I would remind you that governments have found money for this, too, and it does not simply come from air and love, when new corresponding equipment is built there, then in fact, a large number of Estonian'sea' and also land parks are about to be freed. In fact, this wind boom is likely to develop in the coming years, in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U175	Mr. Ernits, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U176	Yes, Mr. Pevkur, I have a procedural question. You are chairing the sitting here, but Mr Michal mentioned that we here are the fifth column to prevent the work of the Estonian Parliament during the Ukrainian-Russian War. But I would like to make it clear to the speaker that he, who did not show up with three ministers, prevented the work of the Estonian Parliament. The fact that the time was a little different than originally [planned] does not excuse the possibility of sleeping or not attending. At this point, Kristen Michal, who did not show up for work, and three ministers represent the fifth column, not us who were ready to work here at night. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U177	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate, I understand, is burning passion, but it is not a procedural debate. Let's try to get back to the bill. Whether there is a fifth column or not can be discussed outside this hall. Within the framework of this draft, questions and answers are still the ones that apply to this draft. Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, you used this sentence that there is a fifth column in Parliament, and with a clear aim at our party. I suggest you examine basically the Defence Police report, which specifically states that the fifth column does not exist in Estonia. It's such a procedural remark. But now, if your ideology is to be taken into account, will it be possible, in the future, if there are questions for ministers and also for your rapporteurs, and the ministers will not come, that, in order to prevent the operation of the fifth column, in principle, no Minister or your waitress will come before Parliament, otherwise we will support the fifth column? Honourable speaker, I find that such statements in this Chamber are not quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U179	I don't want to continue this debate in any way. But when I heard the answer to the question, my ear struck that Mr. Michal said "the characteristics of the fifth column." But I don't want to continue this linguistic, grammatical argument. And if anyone in this Chamber feels that the answer that was given touched him that he was the fifth column, I find it very difficult to comment on it. I just hope that we are dealing with this draft here in the context of questions and answers. This draft concerns the energy economy and its organisation. So my recommendation would be to end the procedural questions right now. We have an opinion round in a free microphone on Mondays. Everyone can talk for five minutes about anything. But procedural questions apply to the procedure for conducting a hearing. Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U180	Yes, Mr. Pevkur. I would like to remind you that Kristen Michal is using column five for at least the second time in this hall in the last few weeks. And the wording used to be non-so-called attributes. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U181	Okay. Let's move on to the questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U182	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If we follow this logic that wood chips were a problem for Finland as one of the major countries of timber exports and imports, then the so-called cogeneration plant was developed. At the moment, I see that we also have a problem with the energy mix because it is tolerated in all ways. But the biomass could still be the residue we're left with. The energy plant is exactly what I believe will take away the other energy needed by human resources, or food. Does this draft set out to some extent these principles that if we are in a crisis situation, the stomach would still like to get drunk, but if we have filled all the fields, I think that maybe this is not the best idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U183	Thank you. No, I can't tell now, maybe I didn't get the question right away. We can continue to debate later, because this second reading will be interrupted, then I will come back here and I can always specify, right, or in writing. But the way someone grows something, this particular bill doesn't regulate or these rules. And these rules, rather, define which category, in which way, from which precious habitat, the surplus of biomass you can use in energy at all. It's more likely to push the bar downwards in this respect. I don't know, building waste, anything that can't be done by anything else, or biomass that can't be done by anything else, it's still pushing it down. Like we were here six months ago, or whenever we were dealing with this bill, we pushed the price bar down. That's the point of this bill. What culture someone decides to cultivate somewhere, we are not now defining with this bill, at least in my understanding. If I understand your question correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U184	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U185	Yes, good manager! Good waitress! Here is a debate on what is a low-value biomass and what can be put in the oven and what cannot be done. My question is: do you think this is a wise debate? As a biologist, I can say that you are biomass and manager Pevkur is biomass, and I am biomass, all of us are biomass. There is no way to say that the opposition is a low-value biomass and the coalition is a valuable biomass. Life is sacred, whatever form it is. Draw a line here between the low-value biomass and the worth of it, don't you think it's a little...? By the way, it was also said that maybe it was a fossil. This debate is not quite wise what you have been pursuing in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U186	Thank you. Well, if as a biologist you say we're biomass, then you have to agree. Well, that's probably gonna happen sooner or later. Well, let's hope so later. We wish everyone a long life. But as far as the use of biomass is concerned, what European rules and perhaps, as I am just trying to explain to you again, these rules lay down is that valuable habitats and valuable biomass and wood are not used where they do not belong. I'm just trying to describe it. So that any, say, higher value places do not consume it, are not paid for it, and wood, for example, that can be used anywhere else, is not used to drive the furnace. This is, in fact, a follow-up to the debate held six months ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U187	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U188	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I have such a very simple question and not very subtle. Indeed, this 582 SE initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is now being suspended at second reading under the Rules of Procedure. Is such conduct, or obstruction of parliamentary work, perhaps similar to that of the fifth column, more similar or less similar to that of the rule of law? If he's not the same, why isn't he the same? And why is post-Rules obstruction more like the fifth column than breaking the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U189	You see, now you are getting out of the framework of this bill, but nothing prevents me from saying, as a personal opinion, that in times of war, when parliaments must be able to work, especially in parliamentary democracy, at least from my view, I can say for the reasons I have been looking for, for example, the suppression of legislation on facilitating the search for jobs for war refugees is an obstruction which, rather, corresponds to the features that you referred to and in which colleagues recognised themselves. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U190	If I may be more specific, my ear seized Paul Puustusmaa's question with bill number 582.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U191	Oh, I didn't hear that place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U192	We're discussing Bill 382.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U193	I guess it was a typo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U194	I assume Mr. Pulpland thought 382, then the correct number will go into the protocol. Nice. Mart Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U195	In accordance with the procedure, I would like to point out that the performer should not always talk about the war situation. The Republic of Estonia has no one at war with Ukraine, no Russia, no the United States, no Finland, no Latvia. The Republic of Estonia lives its ordinary civil life, the life of its own legislation. To speak here as if we were in some kind of emergency, where we would have bombs exploded and therefore cannot have normal procedural parliamentary work, is not appropriate. This is a justification for making your own job lost, which Parliament cannot agree with, at least our group cannot agree with. There is no point in justifying your failure to appear and your failure to appear as ministers by the fact that there is a war anywhere. No martial law has been declared in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U196	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we all have opinions and opinions when someone's on the remote or someone's asking for something. We have a second reading, during the second reading, all members of the Riigikogu will be able to make a speech on this board, 5 + 3 minutes, within the framework of this draft. Please don't ask questions that aren't procedural. If there are any questions about the conduct of the hearing, I would be happy to answer, but all such emotional or even draft opinions can be asked twice in the form of a question or come to the remote in the course of my speech. Really, please, let us stick to this, or we will end up in a situation where every question or answer is followed by a reaction during the procedure, and that really is not in any way in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U197	Mr. Pevkur, you used the expression that we could ask procedural questions about the conduct of the hearing. That is exactly what we have done, because the conduct of the sitting was disturbed and procedural questions came because a good speaker made an inappropriate remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U198	Yeah, but I was talking about today's trial. These speeches, which in the meantime sounded in the course of the procedure, were not procedural. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure Act, if you take up this point on the basis of which we are dealing with procedures here, you will see that it really does not talk at all about a procedural issue, we will deal with recalling again, but it will deal with questions about the procedure for sitting. Aivar Chef is now asking about the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I'm reading this bill. Can you read...? In my opinion, if there is a draft on energy coming to the Riigikogu today, there should be an energy economy and energy insurance issue here. How is it guaranteed that during the autumn season Estonia would be insured on the side of energy carriers, starting with electricity and ending with gas? Can you tell me which points in this bill are solutions to this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U200	Thank you. Energy is very multifaceted. That's part of it, of course, there's no doubt about it. As far as security of supply is concerned, it is dealt with practically every day, and we in the Commission also deal with this matter practically every week. If you refer to LNG or any gas supply in your question, there will be news of it almost every day. The government has already taken decisions on the connections between the quays. I spoke to the Minister for Economic Affairs yesterday, and last night there was also news that steps were being taken or plans were being made to get a LNG tanker. In terms of electricity supply from Russia, we have little to do with it. We can disconnect from this Russian sync area, if necessary, it's possible. It's also written in the papers, as you know, it's just a little more expensive, but it'll be fine. So in energy, this security perspective has been in place for decades. We're not really gonna find out today. As we said before, some options for renewable energy have been rather suppressed for defence reasons, not the other way around. So this view is long. And this view, of course, is part of how renewable energy can be used, which means that people should have a more favourable life for the rest of their lives. How renewable energy can be shared, communities can be formed, all of which are part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U201	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U202	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, The aim of this law is to increase renewable energy and the second sacred grail is a directive. This includes solar panels, windmills and electric cars. All of them need metals, copper, cobalt, nickel, lithium, earth metals. For the production of 400 kilograms of electric car battery, 200 tons of earthlings are dug up. Did you discuss in the Commission how increasing renewable energy will improve the world or what to do to keep the climate in this context? To my comment, I also feel a little insulted by your comment. I can tell you that even though I'm a little older than you, I haven't even belonged to the Communist Party, much less somewhere in the column. So you shouldn't be allowed to make such comments, that's very insulting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U203	Thank you. Anyone who recognizes himself in this comment recognizes it. I can't help it, that's my opinion. That's one. Secondly, no, we did not discuss how much material it takes to produce various vehicles, means of transport. However, I can say that the Renewable Energy Directive, which I think you referred to as the Holy Grail, is still the most favourable and environmentally least burdensome form of energy. If, in the meantime, we are discussing how to fight against high prices, i.e. to offer consumers more favourable opportunities, and for Estonia also to keep clean nature, which is of value to us, then this draft deals with these higher values and practical issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U204	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Well, the characteristics of column five have now remained in this hall. I also understand that maybe it was like your own defense to justify some sort of action. But maybe you do agree, and in order to ease the tension, you admit that this comparison with the same output you said was not the most successful one, and that you would help ease the tension by saying that a little bit went wrong. Because I mentioned earlier that according to the Defence Police, there is no fifth column in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U206	Thank you. I don't know how much this has to do with the bill, but a member of the Riigikogu is free in his words and in his opinions. I have the right to assume exactly what I have said. In my opinion, this activity at such critical moments corresponds to these characteristics. And if someone recognizes themselves in these traits, maybe he has to ask himself why.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U207	Heiki Hepner, after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U208	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Now, please explain a little bit. It is true that the use of biomass has also been introduced here, and we have been debating it, which is sustainable, which is not sustainable, whether wood is sustainable and in what amount it is sustainable. Open it up a little bit more precisely, from where we don't consider it sustainable. It has also been said here that if we use him up a certain megawatt, it is no longer sustainable, I mean in boilers. Where did you end up in your discussions? Is this the one you now expect the Ministry of the Environment to solve? At first, in the introduction you also said that ministries have not yet been able to give exactly their input.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U209	Thank you. Yes, there are two amendments from the ministries, if I know or remember right now. But more broadly, this draft itself also states how the proportion of energy produced from biomass, liquid biofuels and biomass fuels is calculated. Here, in fact, these same criteria are also written, there are very many pages. It also says, let's say, in a simple way, that the more valuable areas are not covered by it, from a certain time and so on. As far as these capacities are concerned, you are probably referring to the Narva stations, the same debate that we held here for six months or nine months, whatever the case is, in fact, this bill is a logical part and a follow-up which says that biomass with a higher value added cannot find its way into that boiler. The Sots also had a proposal to limit the power of something here, or let's say. However, as I said, these proposals, as well as the proposal to move to 100% recovery, were not supported. But these criteria have been rewritten here, and I'm not going to read them all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U210	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Of course, every member of the Riigikogu has a free word and a free opinion. But given how much you're familiar with the activities of the fifth column, which I'm not aware of, I would have liked to know what these characteristics are. I think there's more. Why don't you list them? But I also admit that we have not been operating here under the fifth column, according to your descriptions, but the Reform Party, you personally and also the Ministers of the Reform Party, have obstructed the work of Parliament, not by appearing to work. Now, that's what I think is the symbol for column five. Are you okay with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U212	Thank you. Of course not. And second of all, thank you for the good idea. Maybe I'll rewrite somewhere longer, where I can see the characteristics of column five.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U213	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U214	Thank you very much. Indeed, here, as you yourself pointed out, is quite a long time actually from the forest side, and not only from the forest, but also, let us say, from the wooded area, whether it could be a sustainable or unsustainable area. One such very simple question. We have a law such as the Forest Act, which should give all these criteria. Why are they trying to sign up some sort of forest law special solution? Why can't this be resolved specifically on the basis of the Forest Act, where certain sustainability criteria are also assessed and all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U215	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that was part of the debate. In fact, it even came as if the representative of the Sots wanted more, and maybe the people in the environmental field had to be asked to sign more. But with the bill, however, I dare say, we are not going to rewrite the law on forests or nature conservation. These conditions will remain there. This was also the position of the initiator of the draft. We are writing here, as I have pointed out in some cases, exactly what is necessary for a change in energy and what is necessary for the sake of legal clarity. I would dare say that this is how the solution has gone. Yeah, it was a debate to actually rewrite other laws or related laws, there was, indeed, but the initiator did not take the attitude that we were beginning to do so. So I guess that answers your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U216	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U217	Thank you. If you are going to write about the fifth column, please also note that today we have immigration as large as it was in the Soviet era, when it was intended to destroy and Russify the Estonian people. And why you didn't come to the hall was precisely the aim of the road roll policy to push through the Aliens Act, which opens doors to unlimited immigration and implements precisely the same Soviet anti-national, hostile policy of the Estonian nation. Your aim is to destroy the Estonian nation and the Estonian nation state. If it's not putinistic, if it's not implementing the objectives of column five, if it's not acting either as a useful idiot or as a completely direct Russian influence agent, then... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That's what he really is. So write it down in your article.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U218	Thank you, my good colleague. If it fits, I will. I am a little sad about the undertone of this issue, because Estonia is actually adopting war refugees now, people fleeing a country that is bombed and killing civilians, women and children. There should be so much humanity in all to understand: it is an appropriate human act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U219	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Now we're sticking to this 382 SE, these numbers, yeah. Since your performance was very strongly here with the characteristics of the fifth column, I ask very specifically with reference to this law, since you also associated it with war. How, then, will Ukraine's war be prevented by amending the law on the organisation of the energy economy be reduced? Or how does it relate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U221	Thank you. Firstly, if you now ask about the draft, the draft will put or place on a clearer footing how we organise our energy economy, what are the objectives, how energy supply and the economy are organised, including in the field of transport, for example. The draft relates to how renewable energy targets are calculated, which biomass can be used, and gives people better opportunities to form, for example, renewable energy communities in order to deliver more sustainably. If you ask how this will help, I think that maintaining good confidence in Estonia in the field of energy will naturally help our Estonia to survive and help us support Ukraine as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U222	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U223	Thank you. In addition, write down how you lie in this Chamber, claiming that the abolition of foreign labour restrictions and opening doors by foreign law are somehow related to war refugees. We all know that's not the case. They come here, they have the same opportunities to go to work in the same way as all Estonian citizens. So this kind of lying and wrestling and the exploitation of war for vile purposes is a typical example of the behaviour of the fifth column and the Putinists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U224	Thank you, my good colleague. Your questions are always very instructive and end up with a non-question. I would kindly say that the simplification of the rules in the area of work, which business is waiting for, will certainly affect everyone we expect to work here, as well as those who leave for bombing to protect their lives and families.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U225	We've run out of questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U226	Thank you, good vice chairman. The good people who may be watching this verbatim report years later, they don't get what it's about. What the waitress told us is good, really. When the Commission found out that two ministries on two had made some kind of misunderstanding, I'm not surprised, well, really. We send officials to represent the positions of the Estonian Government; we have horribly good positions. But then you ask why we have biomass, it's as promised. The most point-to-point answer was this, it was treated as if the cabbage leaves that remain on the field or those laughing heads, when someone pulls out the laughter, then it stays in the field, the rotting process, gases are formed, and that's how we produce biomethane. But the residue from wood processing, it's not. When I asked which one of them was of plant origin and which was of fossil origin, there was no answer. Here I must now acknowledge the Commission. It would have been really good to have this debate here on Wednesday. But, of course, what people are saying is, what are we talking about here in the fifth column? Let us be precise: five performers were not actually present. There were three ministers and two waitresses, perhaps the next waitress Annely Akkermann didn't show up either. Now it is possible that this fifth column is considered to be a five. Now, to say that there was only one party in this room that could be the fifth column, I was in this room too. What am I, the sixth column? And were the servants the seventh column? Ah, what can I tell you, bastards? What are you talking about? I'm the black colonel, I'm one of the black colonel. If no one believes, on the day of the open doors of the Riigikogu, come and see. This is not the place for this so-called discussion. Well, there's one of those big-ass casseroles. We still haven't found out... Well, now it turns out they're going to be hiding behind that cloak why they couldn't come here. Maybe a little glittered, but some spinndo doctor thought it would work. Well, it doesn't really work. What really doesn't work is that now, under the cover of war... We asked Hanno Pevkur. He announced that the first minister couldn't make it. Letter from Signe Riisalo, copy. But the next one can't come. We're asking if we know why. No, it's not. There's no third one. That, that, the hearing was paralyzed. But luckily, there was the Anti Division here, so we got so much to go on. But what did we really do now? Other ministers had also sent a letter. In case you had such a protest, Hanno Pevkur would have dared to say the same. Hanno is such a man. But you had that kind of thing that you didn't have there [nothing] to say, punk-ass was. The bottom was actually knocked down by what kind of piece of shit was put together by this foreign law. It took a swing. That was the case: the opposition showed that there is no point in coming before the Riigikogu with such screwups. But we are ruthless, harsh and resolute in this matter. And now, going back... We have not heard an apology that, oh, we protested here against Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Every Thursday at four o'clock you will be able to come to the Russian embassy as well, this is a more sensible version to offer you than to hold back the work of the Riigikogu. So, for the sake of the verbatim, I say that the excuse they brought did not appear, because the information that they did not come for us was not available on Thursday at 10:00 or Thursday at 11:00. And the President of the Riigikogu did not announce on Monday that three ministers and two waitresses could not come because they did not like Russia and they did not like Russia's aggression. I don't like it either. Yeah. I say no here: Putin. Huilo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U227	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with this: I am pleased that the chairman of the committee, in a loud and clear voice, said that the second reading would be interrupted. But when we talk about the energy economy and today's situation, the emphasis goes on how much wood we drive into somewhere in the oven and then we get 250 megawatts of power. In my opinion, members of the Riigikogu should take one tablet at home and write down today's energy numbers in Estonia and then the production capacities in it. I think it's gonna make sense that we're actually in a bucket. We were here a few months ago in the press, through Elering, saying how everything was fine. The European Union was also visited, audited and said: well. I can tell you that there was actually an audit and this audit is the opposite. Estonia's energy security with its price component is catastrophic. Yeah, we're awful. We need to produce electricity at peak load of about 1650 megawatts, gas at the same time 2200 megawatts. We make 1000 megawatts on our own. And then we're talking about how we go from gas to ground heating with air heating systems, to air-to-air heating, all of which use electricity. But we ourselves are lacking power today. One public official was able to hold on to the development of wind farms for ten years. They're talking about defense systems and they don't know what else. In 2011, there was a very clear decision: the border guard and military radar will be assembled, from zero to up to the clouds. There's a 300-meter border, right? The border guards know until 300 is border guards and the Defence Forces keep checking. If these radars were bought at that point, then... I'll see, in the 2011 document, the cost of radar is six to eight million. At the moment, we are paying with European Union money in the order of 80 million. At the same time, we would have had exactly as much power as Estonia needed. We could have sold it out on the good days when the wind was right. We built a cable from Estonia to Latvia. And then it is said that Elering takes care of Estonian citizens. Do you know how much Elering takes from our pockets? He sells electricity from Finland to Latvia at five times cheaper prices than to Estonia. It's in the size of 160-180 million. Of course, there's insurance. I'll take it from here, I'll take it from there, you pay. Are we gonna be able to pay? It's the same with gas. Lithuania turned it down, Latvia turned it down. Finland announced today. What does Estonia do? Let's talk, let's talk, let's think. It is as if no one is hearing that a representative of the government has been in Latvia for the second week in the United States making agreements and looking for investors. We have a single entrepreneur, completely stuck, who can make solutions today. Do we like that one entrepreneur? I certainly don't, because competition would be good. But no matter who has been in the government, nothing has been done. I understand that there was no point in dealing with the LNG terminal when the gas price was around EUR 20 and it comes down to EUR 40 when buying with LNG. There's no point, of course. But today, for six or seven months the price of gas has been in the order of magnitude above... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U229	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U230	...over EUR 100 per megawatt-hour. And we can't decide. I don't know how many of you in the hall know how many tanker ships there are in the world with which to bring LNG gas to Estonia. I can tell you, 43. How many have a long-term agreement signed today? 42. There's a ship on the market, it's booked. This reservation should have ended or the advance should have been made on Thursday of last week. Thank God we have entrepreneurs who were able to extend this agreement and are now sitting in America trying to make agreements there. One condition is only to give up Russian gas: it must be decided that Estonia will not use Russian gas from autumn or January 1st next year. That's it. And the price would be 2.5 times cheaper today if I paid as a home consumer. Shouldn't be paying for the country. 250 million are meant for the Estonian state to pay subsidies. This ship's rent costs between 50 and 70 million. 250 million versus 50 million. The second thing is that with today's next draft we will be discussing the establishment of wind farms. It must be forgotten that two state companies argue, fight and go to trial. Look at the network fees of Eesti Energia, they have reduced network fees over the last five years. Elering has increased. All of us want to hand over to Elering. I have no doubts, but there are doubts. Isn't there another connection between some people? Why do they want to put one place in another, which actually makes the price more expensive for the final consumer? It's very important. Do you know how much wind farm productivity there is? It's zero on a quiet weather. If it's very windy, it's a little under 300. The sun has 250 megawatts. We don't have those powers. And then 2017 was at one point able to write in the bill that we had to allow 50 kilos of solar panel parks to private houses, the possibility that the field could be made no matter how big, only to show that there are 50 kilos of mergers. But then there's the problem that there's no place to add, because the solar panels are built on a field. I was the chairman of the Economic Commission myself, at first reading. It was very clear that it was meant for homes. We visited apartment buildings in Tallinn, the largest house, and there it could fit 50 kilowatts on top of the roof. In my opinion, the first thing I would like to do, for example, for the chairman of the committee to sign up to this draft, is that all homeowners can install a solar panel up to 15 kilos of solar panels without VAT, as is the case with the operator who gets the VAT back. This could also be the case for natural and legal persons to be exempt from VAT for the next two or three years. There's no need for any dishonesty, as it is now, for eight million people to get support in a week's time, but the rest of them will pay nothing else. But good luck to the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U231	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U232	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Kristen, I'm not giving you any suggestions to write in that book. Write it down, then we can buy it from Muuli and Randpere, and so on. But let's talk about the bill. I am pleased that the Committee on Economic Affairs supported the Social Democratic Party's proposal to terminate this draft. There is still a lot of work to be done on this draft, and certainly ladies and gentlemen, both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in this Chamber, could seriously reflect on the amendments made by the Social Democratic Party, which unfortunately only got one vote in the committee. I'm not stopping all of them, but I'm talking about some serious things. Now I'm looking at the coalition. Words can also be followed by actions. We all say we need to get rid of Russian gas today, we need to improve our energy security. How do we fix it? How do we fix this, if we write in this very bill that our ambition, our bar we have to jump from, is almost the minimum we ask Europe for, 42% renewable energy by 2030? That is not the goal. This is no ambition. The Social Democrats suggested that it be 100. We're gonna have to work on it. With the next draft in this Chamber today, we are giving uncertainty to the developers of our wind farms, who may have to stop and miss their development any moment the Ministry of Defence intervenes. As Aivar said, no proper wind farms have been developed recently. How do we get there to 42%? Or how are we gonna get more than that? We must go beyond these words to do more. In any case, even now, within the deadline for the new amendments, the Social Democrats will certainly propose that this number be higher. And I sincerely believe that the Commission is also seriously considering this, given today's state of play, so that this bill will have a significantly higher number than 42. The other side, which concerns what the chairman of the committee said very clearly, is that the purpose of this draft is precisely the efficient use of biomass, so that it is not used inefficiently. Yeah, the Social Democrats have been talking about it all along. In our opinion, inefficient furnaces, wood should not be burned in Estonia. It really is the question of what is this inefficient, where does this boundary go? But, good friends, I know you guys don't believe why today the price of district heating is so expensive. Another reason is that trees are burned in Narva, chips burned in Narva. The price of the start has increased considerably. As a forest owner, I like that. We have other forest owners here talking about being a forest owner. Yeah, the price of chops is really, really great, but it's all gonna have to be paid for by our people here in Tallinn. So these are the options. We burn it ineffectively in the Narva ovens. Eesti Energia receives huge profits. People's room temperature is rising. Yeah, yeah. The forest owner's income is also rising. Yeah, that's right. That's right. So there's a lot of work on this bill. I am pleased that the Commission has proposed to suspend this draft. Thanks only for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U233	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am focusing on a rather narrow area, which I also asked questions about, although I am about to say that I am pleased that this draft is being suspended. It'll give you a chance to do some work, give me a little more clarity. Indeed, I do not think that we should very much resort to different laws, to the concepts of another law being separate from it. That certainly does not create legal clarity. The Commission representative here also told us that they tried to avoid this. Well, in itself, an attempt to avoid it is certainly worth recognising. But I would just like to bring some of the places that I had in mind here, and maybe I can think about them in the committee a little bit more. We want things to be clear, but then we're going to have some new concepts like the "governance system at forest procurement level." I understand what is really meant by it, but it can be said in a much clearer and more understandable way: those areas where the forest is certified. But we're creating this forest, a bulge into a new concept, "the level of the forest area." Why do we need to be so complicated? We're really trying to decipher or rewrite what could be a forest and what part or how big a forest or how high a forest we're promising. Let me read another passage and think along. " [... ] a permanent forested area, i.e. an area of more than one hectare, where trees over five metres high grew by more than 30 percent, or trees that were able to reach these thresholds. "Maybe you grew up or you could make it." Well, that's totally... I don't know if anyone has read this text or not. These trees, maybe you should write right now that if there was even one inch of pine growing there, because we know that the pine can grow higher than five meters, then it goes in there. If they want to say something, it has to be clear. But friends, it can get worse. I'm going to read the next point, and it's going to take some time. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U235	If you have to, you can. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U236	"[... ] an area of more than one hectare in which trees of more than five metres in height grew by 10 to 30 per cent with a grid connection, or trees which were able to reach that threshold, unless evidence is provided that the hydrocarbon stock of the area before and after entry into service is such that the use of Directive 2009/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/70/EC as regards specifications for petrol, diesel and gas oil and establishing a mechanism for monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards specifications for fuel used in inland waterway vessels and repealing Directive 93/12/EEC (OJ L140, 05.06.2009, p. 88 Maybe that's how we're trying to determine a forest area that's here. Well, it's going to be more complicated, of course, but it's going to be so insane and complicated that no one's going to unthink it. Indeed, there are certain legal issues which we must observe and which we must take into account, but my great appeal is that it is still necessary to think here that, at least, a person who has academic education can reasonably easily understand this text and what it is intended to say. On the other hand, I would, of course, like to say again, as regards the use of wood, it is right in this sense, of course, that we are using our own natural resource, which is still a renewable natural resource, and that we are replacing either oil shale or this bloody Russian gas. Well, it was funny when, until recently, Germany tried to prove that the gas generated over millions of years was greener than wood, no matter where the wood was stored. True, we should, of course, also try to monitor certain principles when storing timber so that we do not reduce biodiversity. It is elementary in my opinion, and it is very easy to record it in the law, and it does not have to be very complicated to formulate it all. We use our own wood. True, timber prices have increased, all prices have increased, and in Estonia 100000 forest owners may receive a little more income this year instead of taking this money to Russia, who is killing people in Ukraine for this money. So in this sense, the essence of this law is as in place, but it is my great wish that we think about its wording. Here's what to polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U237	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Dear biomass! You and I are all biomass, but since we belong to the animal kingdom, we are in a difficult minority. Maybe Kristen Michal doesn't know. He thinks if he's dead, it's biomass. No, Kristen, you're biomass now. I'm educating you a little bit. There are 2400 billion tons of plant biomass on land in the world and only 20 billion tons of animal biomass, to which we belong, Kristen, you too. In the ocean, on the contrary, animal biomass is 94% and plant 6.3%, but there are only three billion tonnes in total. But underground, not in the subway, is as much as we animals, with a total of 20 billion animal biomass. And now the question is, why am I talking about this so much? The reason is that this draft is important if we want independence, energetically, but the discussions that were in the committee and which I have read with joy, and which Heiki quoted here, I would myself have quoted the language of birds that is in the bulk of Kristen's leadership. Thanks for not having to do that! These scholastic discussions on biomass, that there is low-value biomass and valuable biomass. It can be ironised that the opposition is a low-value biomass, which could, like, then be heated into an oven, and coalition is a valuable biomass. Or a valuable habitat is a valuable biomass, and what doesn't belong to a valuable habitat isn't valuable, is it? I stress that life is sacred and that everything is valuable when we are alive, regardless of the color of the skin and where someone lives, either underground or on the ground or on a tree. Why am I saying this? These discussions around this biomass up to that point, to suddenly declare it fossil, and... Well, that's funny. If you look at the renewable energyists on these pages, the discussions, it gets even more fun. Biomass is biomass. Dear biomass, who you are listening to right now! All of us are biomass. And now, if you look at it energetically, biomass is sixth place energetically. Well, fossils are at first and uranium and coal and oil and gas. Only sixth place is we, biomass. Of course, us, I guess, no one wants to run the oven. But we're talking about this so-called low-value biomass. So actually, you should really think about it, at least in terms of the wording of what it really is. And now, if you come to this bill, it is a sacred goal: 42% of energy should be renewable, 40% electricity, 63% heat production and 14% cars and trains and that. It's like we're on the right track. But this presentation is a little bit, really crooked, and it's really good to take a break. The fact that Kristen slept with the ministers in the meantime, I think, separately, one night when we were ready to work here, but it was not possible. What about the directive? The name of the directive is on it 2018/2001, which should have been adopted by now, the rooster is already passionate, but we here are jogging about this important thing. But I think at some point we can do it. But what should we talk about? Many colleagues have talked about this before. Renewable energy gives us the independence we need. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Not only energetically, but also across the spectrum. If we want to be an independent nation state, we have to be maximum... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, a beautiful bell sounds here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U239	Yes, it is. Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U240	Yeah, I really like that bell, that's why I'm always looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U241	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U242	Yeah, yeah. We should be as independent as possible if we want to be an independent state. This is currently a very important energetic component, which is really important. But many other things are also important. This morning, the National Audit Office presented a report on how economic measures can damage environmental matters. Tomorrow it will be a public, very interesting report, which I suggest you read. It discusses where to draw the line to where this church will be built. Evgeny's gone, but I read in the minutes where he pressed: which 40%, which 42%, has to be 100%! Communism now. Regenerate now, except for everything. Well, whatever you wanna do, whatever you wanna do, it's not gonna work. You gotta get a little set up, you don't have to run yourself to death. The question now is that a balance must be found here, so that we do not damage our economy, but at the same time do not harm the environment. We need to build this church somewhere. When you read this report, it gives you a lot of thought. I'm not gonna talk for long. I understand the fifth column is so important to Kristen. But let's forget it, Kristen. Let's agree we're all biomass, you're all biomass. And alive too, not after death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U243	Mr. Ernits, if you like the sound of this bell so much, we can agree that after the hearing we will do one bell session for you separately. Then you don't have to wait every time, you can immediately ask if you have eight minutes to speak. I'm open. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U244	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just gonna fix some nuances here. Tarmo Kruusimäe was talking here about committees where he could not get a response. It seems to me that he confused the European Union and the Economic Commission. Something happens sometimes, we all look the same, but something got mixed up in there. Secondly, as far as the Sotsi proposal is concerned, the greater objective that Kalvi spoke about in relation to renewables, I have already touched on that in the report. Either way, these goals will grow over time, and more ambitious packages will come from the European Union, which will be reviewed. They are actually changing with today's energy choices, about which I have already said once, that it seems to me that the substantive choice has been made in Estonia in order to get rid of everything that brings money to Russia as soon as possible. Heiki Hepner's story and the same quote from this law. Well, it has indeed come to us from the initiator, and apparently it has come from European legal texts. It's perfectly understandable when you read it, but when you put it on a separate table from the laboratory as you do, it may have a funny wording. I can't even tell you if we can write it easier, but let's see. And in the case of Peeter Ernits, of course, I would point out that this biomass description he brought in himself, so that it does not sound like one biomass is more valuable in this hall than the other, right? I hope everyone has every tall one. And for what these criteria are necessary, however, I stress that these are the criteria relating to energy, in order to simplify the way in which support schemes for renewable energy were created, at one point such a so-called support mechanism for these schemes was so powerful that, to say the joke, standard furniture could also be burned in Narva boilers and still remain in profit. Any intelligent state and smart energy choices actually mean that rules define that only biomass and wood that cannot under any circumstances be used elsewhere will be used in energy. So that is why these rules are very necessary, regardless of how we classify someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U245	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is now the case that we must also examine the amendments tabled, and there is a whole lot of them. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is to be taken fully into account. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, will not be voted on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The third amendment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, the Social Democratic Party Group, is not to be voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The fifth amendment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The sixth amendment, from the Socialists, is not to be voted on under the Rules of Procedure Act. Seven, same story, same performers. The eighth amendment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, has submitted itself and has taken full account of it. The ninth, submitted by the Economic Commission, has been fully taken into account. Ten, same. Eleventh, same story. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 are presented and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. No one wanted to vote on them, so we have included amendments in the draft. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of Bill 382. We've canceled second reading. In this respect, a new deadline for amendments needs to be set and the deadline for amendments is 13 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U246	Now, let's move on to the second item on the agenda. Second reading of bill No 430 on the amendment of the Construction Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U247	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For the second reading of the draft law amending the building code and the related amendments to other laws, the introduction is now required. The government initiated this draft last year, September 20th. The purpose of the draft is to clarify the rules on the processing of building permits for the loading of a public body body of water, to supplement the existing regulation on the acceptance and refusal of a building permit, as well as on the withdrawal of the building permit. The processing of competing applications will be improved and clarified. The amendments are intended to complement the law with regulation which enables the State itself to carry out the preparatory activities for building permits for the construction of the sea for the development of sea wind parks and aquaculture and to submit these building permits for public auction or selection. The current regulation will also be clarified and supplemented in the view of national defence restrictions and monitoring conditions. The first reading of draft 430 started on 27 October last year and was completed on 28 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was 11 November at 5.15 p.m. last year. By this time, five amendments were received by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and one amendment by the Group of the Isamaa. The procedure of the draft was notified to Parliament by the Estonian Renewable Energy Chamber, the Estonian Wind Energy Association, Eesti Energia AS, Elering AS, Eesti Avamere Vesiviljeja Ühitut, Sunly OÜ, the Estonian Cities and Valdade Association and Elektrilevi OÜ. Opinions on the draft were submitted by the Estonian Renewable Energy Koda, Eesti Energia AS, the Estonian Cities and Valdade Association and Sunly Wind OÜ. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented its proposals for the draft and its views on the submitted opinions to the Committee on Economic Affairs. All proposals, opinions and positions on the draft can be consulted on the draft map. At the same time, a comprehensive table of views is available. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting of 24 January, 8 February, 8 March, 17 March and 21 March. All these meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. On 8 February, a public Commission meeting was held in which issues related to the draft procedure were discussed publicly and, among other things, how far the various regulations are and how the various parties can contribute to them. The public session also presented an overview of how to reconcile communities with the establishment of wind farms. The latest ministerial proposals on the draft were also presented and an overview of the state of the plan was received. In the framework of the 430 procedure, a large number of working group meetings took place with representatives of the initiator, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, implementers of changes, and representatives of market participants and turnips. Proposals and opinions on the draft terms of reference: grounds for the acceptance, refusal and withdrawal of the building permit; constitutionality of the implementing provisions; connection of sea wind parks to the land network; Elering investments, ELWIND project and Elering's role in it; network accessibility or connection in the context of the draft; overview and procedure of existing building permit applications for sea wind parks; methodology and competitiveness of building charges. At its meeting on 17 and 21 March, amendments were discussed and voted on. The Commission decided to propose 13 amendments to the draft, six of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The procedural decisions and proposals are as follows: The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 23 March and that the second reading be closed. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to make the final vote on 6 April. In view of the fact that the second reading is today, these procedural proposals will, of course, change. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U248	And Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U249	Yeah. Good manager! Dear waitress! We're getting back to the same question again, that remarkable night when three ministers and Kristen were asleep, and so were you. The question is what I also asked Kristen. This bill that has been given to us here is the same thing again that there was a second reading on 23rd and today, today, the 6th is the final vote. Why are you being so overhanded? On the other hand, when Kristen says it's a difficult time of war and then you have to work hard, why did you sabotage the work in the Chamber of Riigikogu during the difficult times of the war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U250	I must say that, if you noticed, the first reading in the Riigikogu took place so that one day began and ended on the second day. This bill, I think, is one of its compositions with a greater economic impact at all. The European Commission has assessed that the wind power in the Baltic Sea is 80-90 gigawatts, 10% of which is located in Estonia's territorial waters, about eight gigawatts, and under this legislative framework these wind resources will be deployed. And if this eight gigawatts are now multiplied by 4000 hours, which wind farms are likely to produce per year, it will make the electricity produced according to this bill 32 terawatt-hours, which is four times as much as Estonia currently consumes electricity. For example, if it was sold at EUR 50 megawatt-hour, the turnover, net turnover, would be EUR 16 billion per year. On the basis of this draft, building permits are issued for a period of 50 years with the right to extend them for a period of 100 years up to 100 years, i.e. a further 50 years. So you can multiply by how big, let's say, the effect of this bill is. Therefore, I did not really go to sleep at all, but I looked at the individual people taking part in the votes in this house, but it is too important a bill that at 3:00 a.m., the individual people who have been up by 8:00 a.m. or 10:00 a.m., are overfoot. It's my personal decision. I think this bill is quite important to process it while awake during the day. So the answer to the direct question is, no, I wasn't asleep. It was a conscious decision that we would discuss this very important and comprehensive draft during the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U251	Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U252	Yes, thank you, good vice chairman! I have a procedural question. When the Commission rapporteur makes personal emotional decisions about whether the procedure is timely and timely, how does it go with our working and Rules of Procedure? When the Commission has adopted one thing that we are dealing with it in the Chamber, but the Commission's waitress allows for such personal emotions and decides otherwise, should we, and in what way, deal with it? Or is there some kind of procedural violation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U253	Thank you. I will not reopen this debate. We have discussed this for at least several hours and I will not reopen this debate, we will focus on this bill. Peter Ernits, please! [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U254	Good manager, if I get a little quiet, I'll ask if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U255	Please! I'll listen to you nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U256	Yeah, yeah. My colleague Ligi may want to say something else. My question, the procedural question is that. Mr Akkermann said that he saw that there were too few ambassadors in the Chamber. He couldn't see if he was in the rooms or somewhere else, but he decided he wouldn't show up because of it. But he didn't sleep either. I don't care where Annely slept or who she slept with or was up or ate or went somewhere else. But procedurally, is there any such criterion that a Commission waitress goes to the remote when a certain number of ambassadors are in the Chamber or some other criteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U257	Thank you. The procedure is very simple: if the draft is on the agenda, it can be dealt with if the draft rapporteur is present. Whether there's one person in the hall or 101 people in the hall doesn't matter. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U258	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Commission waitress. As you know, there's a pretty big mistake in this bill. I was hoping that, as a waitress, entrepreneur and also a member of the Riigikogu, you would propose to interrupt the second reading of the draft. How do you feel about the intention of the initiators of the draft that investors of the wind farm from outside Estonia should not come to Estonia, but the developers are at risk all the time, so to speak, that both building permits and building rights may be taken away from them at any time? Should we still interrupt the second reading today or take a break and discuss it with the Commission? Because the situation so far is turning a blind eye to all the principles that have been in place to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U259	Thank you very much for your question. I am still taking advantage of the opportunity to respond to my good colleague Peter Ernits. You asked me if I was asleep. I said no, I didn't sleep. Then you said you didn't care. But I really propose to you that we talk about this bill, it is a draft with a very large and long impact. Let's not discuss any more domestic issues here. Exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U260	Tarmo Kruusimäe. [[Annely Akkermann continues to respond.]] Excuse me, Mr. Kruusimäe! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U261	I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U262	The rapporteur is still in the process of answering the question. I was too hasty. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U263	Yeah, I still wanted to tell Aivar that it's not a mistake. This was considered at length and analysed on several occasions. I think, Aivar, you mean that for defence reasons it is possible to revoke the building permit and the building permit. Perhaps that law should have indicated that if authorisations were withdrawn for defence reasons, they would have been reimbursed in accordance with the State Liability Act. But it's kind of common knowledge. It was decided not to include this in the bill. I think everyone in this Chamber realises that we cannot see a hundred years ahead of what defenceal needs may arise, and we must leave ourselves the opportunity to defend our country in defence matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U264	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U265	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I, too, see that it actually gives an advantage to one of these politicians, and that is what is happening now in the energy economy. But I want to ask you now about the procedure for paying the building fee. Here is the 18th amendment concerning §11321 and it states that the amount of the building charge at the public water body, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, " Did you also consider that sometimes we do not have winds? Then we could have counted on multiplying by 365 again, right, because we have 365 days. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Well, that would be fairer, but the building fee would be higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U266	Uh-huh. It's 4,000 hours taken from these models, how the effective working hours of sea wind parks are predicted. As we know, 365 × 24 hours per year, then we get the chronological number of hours per year, which is over 8000 tonnes per year. And it's calculated, in models, that 4000 hours a year the wind blows and the wind power plant runs at full power. Of course, now newer wind farms are also modeled so that they work 5,000 hours a year. It is hoped that the windmills will become more effective. But here is conservatively used as a basis for 4000 hours a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U267	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U268	Good manager! Good Annely! Yeah, it's really very important and have an impact on the bill, so honor you. At the same time, the manager said that your lack of expression was actually new at work, because the ambassador, the Commission waitress, has no authority to see how many people are in the hall, and then come, too, if you use Kristen's definition that there is a time of war and that you have to work all the time, even at night. So would you mind apologizing to your colleagues? No minister has dared to do that. But the specific question is: How do the people of Kihnu view the windmills as being filled with the sea? I'd ask you about Saaremaa and Sõrve, but you're not from around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U269	Yeah, there's been a lot of talk about it with Kihnu people. Of course, no one likes artificial objects in nature. But all the fangs and I think that other people, too, love heat and light, which one way to get is electricity. Let's say we're ready to endure this environmental disturbance. Here in the preparation of this draft we also looked at this draft environmental disruption compensation, which is expected to come to the Riigikogu within the next month, and 0.5% of net sales during the year will also be collected to compensate for environmental disruption. This concerns coastal fishermen, local residents and local communities in the same way. So the fangs take it completely pragmatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U270	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm also asking about the building fee. Here it really is § 11321, which says that the building fee is 7% of the price calculated on the basis of the average value of the production land in Estonia, calculated on the basis of the area under the building of the wind power plant. And then there's this kind of extension or clarification that takes into account the distance up to 1000 meters when individual windmills are involved. Is this 1,000 meters taken as a radius or diameter, or on both sides 500 meters? Or is there 1,000 meters between the windmills on both sides? How is it designed? How does the calculation of this 1000 meters apply to this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U272	As far as wind power plants are concerned, in fact, between the two readings, the idea of this building charge being taken into account was changed. Amendment 16 must have been the one that came in. This is calculated from net sales from 4000 hours per year by capacity. The way these rows are right here. And what you read, it's out now. I can't even imagine how... Which passage did you read exactly? [[Heiki Hepner will explain.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U273	Mr. Hepner, maybe you could... You have a second chance, then press the question button again. Aivar Chef, please! Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U274	Yeah, thanks! I have a simple question. In your committee, one of the authors of this draft is the same person in the ministry who is also on Elering's council. This has nothing to do with corruption, but there is actually a conflict of interest. When I read this bill and when I look at two state companies, Eesti Energia and Elering, it is very clearly, one hundred percent inclined towards Elering. All the proposals made by Eesti Energia have been rejected. How do you explain that? Why are you in the Commission...? I understand that Eesti Energia is a branch of the Ministry of Finance or a general meeting is the Minister of Finance. But how do you justify that all the proposals that came from the side of Eesti Energia were rejected, but all those that have been signed in by a member of the Elering Council will be supported by you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U275	I have no further comment on this than that the amendments were tabled by both the working group and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They came from different sources. I certainly do not agree with the view that only the proposals made by Eesti Energia were rejected and that only one particular person, I cannot tell you who you mean, the proposals were taken into account. These proposals, drawn up by the Committee on Economic Affairs, were based on the discussions of the working groups, which were attended by a number of people and representatives of several institutions. So I cannot confirm the context of the question that you outlined here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U276	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U277	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If we now see that the decision-making power, if anyone builds something here with detailed planning and building rights, will still go to one, he will either have the option to cancel it or not, how much do we see the effect that investors will not just come to us? If our law has now dealt with it as such, that you may not yet be able to pour concrete and set up impellers, but you do the preliminary work and you know that one has been given such an opportunity on simple grounds, could the Riigikogu still be involved in this debate? Because Elering just makes you numb and stubborn. And the second question is: has the Prime Minister now changed his mind that wind energy is not hydropower, or is he of the same opinion? You don't know?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U278	I haven't heard the Prime Minister say he thinks wind power is hydropower. And Elering doesn't decide to grant or revoke building permits. Nor does Elering decide to grant or withdraw building permits. It's a very technical procedure. According to the law, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will be authorised to do so. There is a corresponding competence, it is a state office, and state officials are guided by the code of ethics. I think that processing building permits according to technical parameters is in no way a political question so that the Riigikogu can or could be a part of it. I think we can trust the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority with this calm heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U279	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U280	Thank you. Indeed, if you look at it a little further away, we will also find an amendment or an amendment to repeal it. However, paragraph 16 (1) above states that in the same paragraph of Paragraph 11321 (2), the word "four' is replaced by the word "three'. In fact, the same paragraph states: "The amount of the building fee is four per cent of the price calculated on the basis of the average value of the land for which the building is intended, calculated on the basis of the area under which the public water body is charged. " It is true that the calculation is based on the surface area. See, now this is the same § 11321 - page 9, paragraph 2. Now what you referred to, on which amendments have been tabled, is actually point 18, which says that it is calculated differently. But this...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U281	Mr. Hepner, you've gone over 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U282	It's okay!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U283	That's crazy. You're hurting colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U284	If we're doing a meaningful job, it's very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U285	You're hurting your colleagues. Is there a question or is it not? Got it. Okay. No further questions. Well, I tried to read the question, but if Annely got the question from that tirate, then... [[Heiki Hepner is talking about the hall.]] Then is there a contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U286	I think that there is no contradiction here, but I imagine that what could raise questions in the readers of this draft is that there was a draft 406, which regulated the regular valuation of the land, and it said that until a certain date the current regulations for calculating the building fee would apply and that they would apply until 2024 or 2025. We discussed this briefly, but we decided that we would not change the situation created by Bill 406 because it is entirely one hundred percent foreseen that electricity will not be produced at the time when the calculation provided for in the ordinary land valuation law is in force. This is more complicated than now the new calculation, which is on net sales, and that is why the group's proposal to amend it was made. I think you're at this point at your reading. But we can also take a closer look at it outside the Chamber. And how did this proposal come about to change the procedure for calculating the building charge? This actually came about because the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepared an analysis of the methodologies of other countries, how building charges for sea wind parks are calculated and established, and looked at what could be simpler and clearly understandable to foreign investors, which could depend on changes in electricity prices over the next hundred years. For such a long period, these revolutions lay the foundation. To be honest, this change in the calculation of the building fee should make Estonia more attractive to foreign investors, as clarity and simplicity and market-related values are in themselves when establishing all kinds of state fees. Thank you. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U287	My fellow Members have no further questions either. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U288	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U289	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U290	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is another good example of how the bill should not reach the Riigikogu. If the rapporteur claims that he does not know that Eesti Energia has proposed a number of improvements and blindly believes everything said by the Deputy Chancellor, who is at the same time a member of the Elering Council, then questions arise. 30 years of the same behaviour in Estonia, all investors and entrepreneurs know what the rules of the game are, but one day they want to change the rules of the game in such a way that investors say there is no point in coming to this market. For a long time, Eesti Energia has also established wind farms outside Estonia, because it seems that certain associations are simply hindering. If you look at this bill, can you imagine that you are buying a home, knowing that at any time someone might say that this purchase is not legitimate, and that you will be taken back home, which is that you have put [money] in it, repaired the rooms and done everything else. That's exactly what this bill wants to do. The building right is granted... It would have been very clear in this law that all the conditions will be written on the act or contract of building law: in five years you have not invested anything, the building right will be taken away from you. Everything would be right. But there is no clause here that there is a need to write some terms in the treaty. Some official's just gonna decide at some point. Just as construction permits were granted to the wind farm at the beginning of the last decade, and then an official, himself a deputy secretary-general, said that no, this authorisation should not be granted because the state has failed to fulfil its obligations. And the entrepreneur, so that he has invested millions in it, let him bear these costs. In my opinion, the only thing right now is to interrupt the second reading and review this bill. The rapporteur was with me at an energy conference on Thursday, where one must admit that the people invited to the debate were not given the floor, but the debate was spoken for two hours. A guy like me who couldn't keep his mouth shut, I just said, "When it looked like it was gonna get really screwed." That's exactly what's happening right now with the same bill. We are once again creating obstacles so that wind farms are not built. We are talking about renewable energy and everything else in the previous draft. Wind energy is a major part of the current energy needs in Estonia, which can solve this problem. A thousand megawatts of wind farm capacity could now be built quickly. But we're doing everything we can to prevent investors from doing that. In my opinion, members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber should start to delve more and more into drafts that literally affect Estonian people and entrepreneurs economically. We have seen in recent years that no decisions can be made. No decision can be made that would literally affect the energy economy. Keeping people in line for help from local governments is the only thing that has been decided. There was a transit committee today. Last time I asked you to put a LNG terminal in it. No one even dares to come and talk about it anymore. Then came an official, unfortunately most people didn't know, and said we were talking, but we didn't decide. Lithuania-Latvia and Finland have now made their decisions this morning. Estonia will discuss. But in the fall, 100,000 families may be cold. Then they say we solve it with electricity. We have 1000 megawatts of electricity capacity, a peak load of 1650 megawatts and a further 2200 megawatts of gas. Then they say we can work it out with electricity and do everything we can to make sure there's no wind farm for God's sake. As the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications announced last week that the solar panels parks are finished, we will not make any contact. I admit that during the previous term in this procedure, at the last minute, the Ministry wrote a sentence in it, which gave it a chance to make either 300 or 500 megawatts instead of 50 megawatts of field, except that it was shown on paper that there were five out of 50, even though that was not at all the purpose of this draft. I completely understand that no one wants to start running lines there anymore. If this park were in the city of Tartu, there would be a connection right now, but if it was made somewhere far away on a field where there is no house and there is no consumer, no one wants to carry this cable. But they want to do the exact same thing right now. Invest, we'll do a public procurement, a competition, but let's not lay down the terms on which the winner will have to set up a wind farm after that. I'm gonna win this building right, hold on five years, but maybe in five years, they're gonna say that since you didn't do anything, it's gonna be taken away from you. But it's been five years. At present, under the terms of this call, the investment volume and space should be in place in time to ensure that all competing parties have the same and comprehensible conditions. There is no such requirement in this draft. And once again, I want to stress: if it was said here before that something has been misunderstood, I would recommend to the waitress that she now communicates with the smartest person in her committee that there is a letter from Eesti Energia on your committee, which has written very precisely what the problems in the draft are. As it turns out, it has not even been discussed. Unbelievable! It is simply incredible that there is a chance in Estonia that two state companies are competing with each other and that since one clearly has family contacts and someone has a husband working somewhere, two have a husband working in Elering, Elering's will remains and the Commission does not even get into it. That's sad. Annely, I know you're very good, you're very good at discussing your drafts. Please review this and support it [our proposal] to make it easier for you. On behalf of the Fatherland Party, I'm handing over a second stop to bring these corrections in. There is actually a sentence that will make the situation transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U291	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U292	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! Of course, social democrats attach exceptional importance to the rapid development of wind energy and, more generally, renewable energy opportunities. This is important for energy security. Jobs and business opportunities in the energy sector depend on it. Innovation and the development of new technologies depend on it. This is important for environmental conservation and meeting climate objectives and, of course, it means cheaper electricity prices for Estonian people. There have been a number of discussions on this issue lately in the Committee on Economic Affairs and here in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, economic operators in this area have noted that the country has unfortunately slowed down in this area and prevented the development of wind energy rather than encouraged it. As one entrepreneur said at the meeting of the Economic Commission, he sees no sign that the Republic of Estonia actually wants to develop wind energy. None! At the moment, the entrepreneurs, apparently, are dealing with it despite the state. In particular, the Social Democratic Party Group considers that this draft has a number of shortcomings. In this regard, the Social Democrats have also proposed a number of substantive amendments. I am not going to read them all here, of course, and introduce them thoroughly, but I am going to touch on the same subject as the previous rapporteur. We can see that the proposed provisions create an unlimited risk for the owner of the building that, regardless of the lawful construction activity and the building permit already issued, the State may subsequently reassess the effects of the building or the threat to national defence and that the building permit is revoked or refused. In our opinion, the proposed regulation is not proportionate. In our opinion, the current regulation also solves the problems set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft act. There is no need to create additional uncertainty. The impact of the issue on national security, the object of national defence, can actually be resolved at the stage of coordination of the building permit and the granting of the building permit. And according to the current regulation, a coordinated construction project may not be changed later in such a way as to change the impact on the national defence building. And coordinating the building permit with the Ministry of Defence also means coordinating the construction project. Apart from all of this, the developer should be compensated for the damage in the event of an incorrect assessment by the State, but the draft proposal does not provide for compensation for damage and the explanatory memorandum to the draft is indiscreet in the matter of compensation and there is no actual legal analysis. Therefore, this regulation cannot be proportionate and constitutional since all risks relating to national defence and national security are placed on the developer's shoulders, but there is no clear additional compensation regulation. These amendments were unfortunately not taken into account. Of course, national security interests can and must always be taken into account in these matters, but always bearing in mind that energy security, independence and independent local, community-based electricity generation are also essential for national security. To sum up, this is another draft which concerns practically the implementation of a green turn. There is a great deal of talk about the green turn, a number of successive governments have called it one of their most important issues, a priority. But we see, in particular, in the form of wind energy and the development of renewable energy at all, that the leadership of this turn remains weak, that governance remains weak. There will be years of disputes, no decisions and uncertainty for companies active in the sector and the implementation of their investment plans will be difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U293	Thank you very much. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U294	I still wanted to confirm: it is not true that the proposals of Eesti Energia have not been discussed. There have been several meetings with Eesti Energia, their proposals that whether national defence restrictions are constitutional or not constitutional have been analysed further to the working group and the Economic Committee in the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Legal and Analytical Department also took exactly the view that the state must be able to protect the state. If we foresee a hundred years, we will not be able to anticipate all the national defence threats in the coordination of the building permit. And that's what this whole argument is about. It is simply not true that the proposals of Eesti Energia have not been discussed. I myself have met representatives of Eesti Energia several times. And the second point made here by my colleague, Mrs Koka, is that Elering and Eesti Energia are competitors. No, it's not. Elering does not produce energy and Eesti Energia does not provide the core network service. One is still the transmission system operator and the other is the electricity producer, they are not competitors. However, I call on you to stop reading the second reading of this draft, i.e. to support the completion of the second reading, because once this draft becomes a law, it will open up completely new opportunities for us to produce renewable energy, to produce more affordable energy, to make energy more accessible. If we can develop wind farms at sea in four times the amount of electricity produced in Estonia, then there will also be land-based wind farms, which were discussed very briefly in this debate, but which will be affected in the same way. And new technology has evolved. This electricity that we can produce, we can turn into hydrogen with the super-big electrolytes that are still being invented in the world. Hydrogen can be poured into the car tank, hydrogen cars are already driving, hydrogen buses are driving. This is a very necessary draft for our country, our security and energy supply. I ask for the end of this second reading to be supported and for this draft to be introduced as a law at third reading. This law could have been in place 10 years ago, then the situation with energy in the Estonian state would have been completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U295	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Now we are going to examine the amendments, they are here. The author of the first amendment is the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken this amendment fully into account. The second amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U296	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U297	Here's what we're gonna do. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of reviewing draft 430 amendments. We have reached the second amendment, which is tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group and has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. The Social Democratic Party Group is asking for a vote, so please take a position and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U298	The proposal was supported by 15 delegates, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been rejected by the commission. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U299	I ask for this worthy amendment to be voted on and, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U300	Sure. Would you like a call sign? No. All right, let's get to the vote now. This is the third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U301	There are 15 delegates in favour of the proposal, 46 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the lead committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U302	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U303	I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee have rejected it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U304	The proposal was supported by 15 delegates, 46 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The seventh amendment, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Commission itself has taken full account of it. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U305	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U306	We shall proceed to the vote on the eighth amendment. The performer is the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U307	There are 15 delegates in favour of the amendment, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The tenth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the lead committee has been disregarded. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U308	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U309	I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U310	There are 16 delegates in favour of the proposal, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Commission itself. Amendment 13, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 14, by the author's Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 15, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of this. Amendment 16, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U311	Thank you. As this amendment adds an enormous amount of bureaucracy, Tarmo asked why we are voting on it, so I would ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U312	Seventeenth. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and by the Steering Committee, has been disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U313	There are 10 delegates in favour of the proposal, 45 against the proposal and one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself. Amendment 19, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs have taken full account of this. We have examined all the amendments to draft 430. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of draft 430, but we have received a proposal from both the Social Democratic Party Group and the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 430. That is what we must vote on. I shall put to the vote the withdrawal of the reading of draft 430. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U314	The withdrawal of the bill was supported by 17 ambassadors, against 47. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of draft 430 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U315	Let's move on to the agenda. Today's third item is the second reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. The rapporteur is Helmen Kütt, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I ask that there be enough silence in the hall so that the waitress can speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U316	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! I will give an overview of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws, or draft 510, in preparation for the second reading in the Committee on Social Affairs. As we know, on 10 January of this year, the government initiated this amendment. In the Commission's view, its first reading would have taken place on 26 January, but since our sitting went to late night hours, the explanatory memorandum now has the right date, that is 27 January. To be more precise, at 1.03 p.m., the first reading of this bill began. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 February 2022. Amendments were tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and by Raimond Kaljulaid by the deadline for tabling amendments. There were two amendments. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice, who had already addressed us with a letter in advance, drew attention to the problems related to the cost of providing the service to support everyday life, had previously called upon the Foundation Liiva Sun's Home, as well as the Minister for Social Protection, who proposed that the draft be supplemented. At its four meetings, held on 7, 14 and 15 March and 4 April, the Commission discussed the proposals as well as the draft in a very thorough manner. The first debate was on 7 March. It was attended by Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo, Head of the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ivar Sikk and advisers Kadri Mets, Elen Preimann and Kaie Pukk, Advisers of the Child and Family Department Marge Hindriks and Liisa-Lotta Raag, Head of the Disability Rights Policy of the Chancellor's Office Juta Saarevet, Managing Director Janno Kell and Legal Advisor Silja Holsmer, Chairman of the Management Board Liina Lanno, Chief Executive Director of the Association of Cities and Municipalities, and Advisor Maililiis Kaljula, Head of the Social Department of Saue Municipality, Marelle Erlenheim, and Deputy Governor of Harku Municipality Robert Lippin and Head of the Social Department of the Pärnu City Government Tõnu Poopuu. As you understand, since the Cities Union has turned to concerns on several occasions because of additional tasks, in addition to the [representatives] of the Cities Association, the heads of the various social departments of the municipalities and their assistants were invited. Our committee first listened to Kadri Metsa's proposal, an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Social Affairs. This was a very sensible amendment concerning the transfer of the College of Education of Maarja County to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research in the Ministry of Social Affairs. The reason is simple: as Minister Signe Riisalo explained, an agreement was concluded with the Ministry of Education and Research that the Ministry of Social Affairs would take up the service with the institution in question. That is why it was necessary to repeal the provisions in the Social Welfare Act, which so far regulated the distinction of the College of Education in Maarja County. The speaker, Helmen Kütt, presented two amendments to the Social Democratic Party. These are very good amendments. One concerns the financing of general care services, i.e. the possibility of receiving a nursing home for a pension, according to which the person's own contribution would be 90% of the pension. It was also pointed out at the introduction that the proposal did not have a date of entry into force, so it could be put into effect, for example, from 1 January 2023. As the cost of a nursing home in Estonia is a huge problem, food prices will rise, including all other prices, including energy prices, so the support of the state would be reasonable. The second proposal concerned family benefits paid under the Family Benefits Act, which could not be included in the family's income in the future payment of income support. It will support all uninsured families with children and give them the opportunity to cope better if child support and support for a large family are not included in the accounts. This is precisely because, despite the high growth in the consumer price index, the subsistence limit has been the same since 2019, i.e. it has not been raised. Both Signe Riisalo and Kadri Mets very much welcomed and praised our proposals. They also identified small risks. For example, the Minister pointed out that if a coefficient system or such a system were to be set up that child benefits were not taken into account, it might happen that although one of the objectives of income support is to maintain people's motivation, these benefits are such that it makes no sense for a person to go to work, that motivation may fall. As the author of the proposal, I was able to comment that the Commission always has the opportunity to add, for example, that it is only valid for the first three months. After all, the analogy could be that even if a person goes to work, the income support will not immediately disappear, but that a person will continue to be able to get underfoot while receiving income support and pay if he or she has previously been unemployed. Kadri Mets, as an advisor, very much praised the proposal and said that there would be a development plan concerning the financing of the general care service. That concludes the presentation of these proposals. Next, representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities presented their views and proposals. They were concerned, however, that this draft had not been thoroughly analysed or evaluated as to which costs would be incurred by the local authorities due to the additional burden and that there was a lack of impact assessment. The Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this is not an additional burden; however, the draft seeks to clarify the existing provisions and harmonise the practice of granting aid, so it is not a new obligation and economic analysis and impact analysis are not necessary. Another concern concerned the professional higher education or the profession of social workers in local governments. The concern was that there are already relatively few social workers. Kadri Mets, as an advisor, replied that a social worker still comes into daily contact with people in vulnerable situations, that he has to make very difficult decisions about their way of life, and that there is a great need for both trust and professional skills. He pointed out it's actually a five-hour period. With regard to educational requirements, the Ministry considers that the four-year transitional period should remain; these people will be able to obtain either a professional higher education or a vocational qualification. It was also under discussion about the costs of providing the services of the Chancellor of Justice and the Liiva solar home [of concern] for the provision of special care services. In fact, Liina Lanno, Chairman of the Management Board, pointed out very nicely that § 8[9] of the [Social] Welfare Act states that the local government unit is obliged to ensure that the costs related to the owner-occupied or owned dwellings of the service provider are covered to the extent established by the local government. The specific provision has created ambiguity, which has lasted for a long time. First, it pointed out that among the service providers, the question has been raised as to whether the provision is a municipality in which the service provider is located or whether it is a municipality in which the resident is to receive the service. He pointed out that this needed clarification. Elen Preimann, of the Ministry of Social Affairs, replied that on 11 March the Estonian Association of Municipalities and Cities will be held, and this matter definitely needs to be resolved more precisely. Juta Saarevet, Head of the Policy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, also pointed out that the Chancellor of Justice has not turned for the first time [on this subject] but did so already in 2016 and now for the second time, but the situation is still unresolved. This meeting of the Commission was only a hearing, and no decisions were taken. On 14 March, Ivar Sikk, advisers Kadri Mets and Elen Preimann from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Deputy Director of the Estonian Cities and Municipalities Union Jan Trei and adviser Maililiis Kaljula took part in the discussion. The debate took place again. It was specifically requested to draw attention to the previously established [worries] § 89. Maililis Kaljula said that this subject needed more negotiation; it could not be easily changed by removing a few [words] from the law. I asked for clarification on what was discussed at the meeting on 11 March. Elen Preimann announced that there would be a solution by autumn 2022, such agreements are coming. On Tuesday 15 March, there was a debate at which the amendments were put to the vote. All other amendments to the draft were fully taken into account, but only two amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group and by Raimond Kaljulaid were disregarded. I must say that we are very well in this respect, it was not the case that the Socialists have one vote and we cannot vote on these [proposals] here today, but that these amendments received four votes in favour. This was not a world-view issue; I felt during the meetings of the Commission that coalition ambassadors also actually see that there is a problem that needs to be resolved. These amendments received four votes in favour: Helmen Kütt, Priit Sibul, Kert Kingo, Siim Pohlak. Siret Kotka, Hele Everaus, Natalia Malleus, who replaced the 15th [Marika Tuus-Lauli], Luck Pillak, Viktor Vassiliev, Tiiu Aro. The exact same result was also the vote on the second amendment concerning the law on family benefits. I once again proposed that the Commission's amendment be initiated, which would mean adding three months if child benefits were not taken into account. But it didn't find any support, again for four and six. Procedural decisions were also taken. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on 6 April, today, it was all in favour; to propose that the second reading be closed, again all in favour, or consensus; when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda and the final vote be held on 13 April; there was a consensus here too. Despite all the procedural decisions that we had taken, we came back to this issue on 4 April in the Committee on Social Affairs because the Ministry of Social Affairs had addressed us specifically because of one of the dates of entry into force. Kadri Mets, adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained that the amendment relates to § 6 (2) i.e. to the date of entry into force. This concerns the right of the local government to receive information from the Social Insurance Board about families who have applied to determine the degree of disability of their child. The local government must then deal with the case of a child in need and provide suitable and necessary assistance to the family. The date of entry into force had been scheduled until 1 September, the Ministry had proposed to postpone it by 1 January 2023. The reason for the proposal is the unexpected additional burden on the Social Insurance Board and local authorities regarding the extensive immigration of Ukrainian refugees into Estonia. This proposal had been negotiated between the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities and the Ministry of Social Affairs. When I asked whether the amendment was also known to the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, who is known to be the umbrella organisation of organisations concerning disabled persons and children, Kadri Mets replied that this amendment had been finalised very quickly; he has not yet been able to negotiate with the Chamber. But in praise and recognition of Kadri Metsa, it must be said that if we asked that we be informed about this negotiation, so that the House of People with Disabilities would not read the news in the newspaper, but would be previously involved, that it would have been discussed with him and that he would be aware of it, then on the same day we received quick feedback that the House of People with Disabilities supported the postponement of this date of entry into force. They believe that it is very important for this to happen because it would be possible for families to receive this help. I think it is good practice that it should not be so much under the attention of the Commission, but it should certainly be implemented more in this way in the future. But I'm really glad it worked out like this. Then the Committee on Social Affairs made procedural decisions again. The proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of the amendment to 1 January 2023 was fully taken into account, there was a consensus, and it was decided to authorise the chairman of the committee to sign the draft second reading procedural documents; there was also a consensus here. These are the changes and the work done between the two readings in the Committee on Social Affairs. Indeed, I congratulate and congratulate all the Members of the Commission and all those who participated. It has to be said that the Commission has remained unsolved as regards the Mobile Solar Home, but we hope that these things will be fixed and that the promise that it will come out in the autumn and that we will be informed in the spring of the Commission will be fulfilled. It should not be the same as in 2017, when the Social Affairs Committee was promised that 2018 would be a comprehensive special care reform and design programme on the table, but this did not happen and once again it was necessary for the Chancellor of Justice to address the Social Affairs Committee. But thank you. These were the discussions and decisions taken by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U317	Let's get to the questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U318	Good manager! Honourable waitress! You're doing very well, and really, this area is definitely one of your heart themes. But I'm sad to read this bill. No further impact analysis was carried out. There are more than ten organisations whose proposals are not taken into account. I understand that your proposals, too, were actually taken into account only by opposition parties; coalition parties did not support them. What are the real benefits of this draft for people with special needs? What help does this bring to the municipality's knowledge on some date? A good municipality knows who lives on the territory of the municipality or city. It's just pushing a date here or there. Secondly, I would certainly like to remind you that when the amendments come, they can only be signed by the Minister, no official can bring any amendments. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The proposals shall be made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U319	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U320	How do you feel about the fact that the Commission did not accept any of the proposals made by the organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U321	Thank you very much for this question. I would, of course, like to clarify that indeed the Ministry's proposals came all signed by the Minister, just the official explained them. The minister was at the meeting, and that's all right. The committee itself addressed the draft to the Baltic Association of Quality of Social Services, the Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Society of Psychiatrists, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Association of Social Work, the Association of Providers of Special Welfare Services, the Chamber of Experience Advisers, the Koja and the heads of the Estonian Social Institutes. We only received a reply from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. As I said earlier, we were approached directly by the Foundation's Mobile Solar Home and, of course, by the Chancellor of Justice. These were the [proposals] that came from, and the ministry [theirs] with them. In fact, no one submitted any more views or opinions other than the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. I apologise, really at 1.03 a.m., there was a first reading, and no night is the best time to process such important drafts, but we are working exactly as it is [possible], and at night the ministers were on the board, speaking and everything was very correct. I would like to remind you that this draft will introduce changes that will partly reduce bureaucracy, create legal clarity and also help to provide better quality care assistance. It is very important that there are also common foundations for the concept of long-term care. What is even more important is what the people who are listening to today know that when the third reading takes place on the 13th, this bill exempts the second-degree declines and ascending relatives from the obligation to support their adult relatives and the associated costs. Perhaps grandkids will not have to pay for their grandparents when they are in care facilities and the municipality will no longer ask them for information about their incomes. [This commitment] will remain for children only before there is component financing. We heard the minister talking about it last night. I also had a problem with asking a question yesterday, and that was what we had in the committee. The Minister very much hoped yesterday that it would enter into force as early as 2023, but in the materials that were distributed to us yesterday, it says that this could happen in 2024. This is a very important draft in this sense. These concerns and suggestions, which were also presented and made by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, were partly contradicted by the proposals of the Liikva solar home. The municipalities said that they could not currently accept the proposal submitted by the mobile solar home, despite the fact that this [problem] has been unsolved since 2017. The debate was very thorough. Once again: that is not always the case in committees, you know that too. There was just a draft by Kristen Michal, and it was said that you see the Socialist proposal received one vote in the vote, because the other one was absent. Well, there is no other Social Democrat in our committee. But it is not a world-view issue, it is a necessity that needs to be resolved and therefore really four votes of support it received, and we can discuss it today. Once again, there was such an atmosphere in the Commission. As I read to you from the Commission's minutes, the Minister very much commended us for this proposal. It's kind of nice before it goes to the vote. But 4: 6 was the result. Personally, I asked this question, and it received a specific answer so that those people who are listening to us today would know. If this law is passed, the President will announce it and it will appear in the Official Journal of the State. When a grandson enters the municipal social services, for example, who has so far had to pay the grandparent's maintenance costs calculated because the law in force provides that grandchildren [this money] will also be taken from [this money], I myself specifically asked if this is the way to accept it [the bill] and, if he became a law, he could ask to be exempted from paying these costs. The answer was very clear: yes, it is, it will enter into force exactly when the [draft] has become a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U322	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U323	Good manager! Good waitress! I congratulate you again. But I read in the explanatory memorandum that, since we have had a lot of Ukrainian children, a very large part of the working time of child protection workers is spent dealing with the problems of juvenile refugees and, as a result, we will not be able to deal with the disabled children currently in need, point one, and point two, with the development of STAR. Does this mean, then, that in this case, dealing with our own children, even the weakest, disabled children, is delayed because of the arrival of a large number of war refugees? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you think it's right that our people...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U324	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U325	... suffer as a result of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U326	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U327	Yeah. Raivo's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U328	Yeah. Thank you very much for this question. I am pleased to explain that this is not the case. This amendment means something quite different, and there is also another explanation for the postponement of this time. All disabled children and their parents who turn to the Social Security Office receive help. Absolutely all visitors receive help, exactly what the state gives or what local authorities give. It is a question of what will be done with this draft. This is because local authorities are given the right to receive information from the Social Insurance Board about families who have applied to determine the degree of disability of the child. You don't share that information right now. At the moment, the person in need turns, the family turns, and the child receives help. The local authorities are now informed that this family has turned, that they need help. This gives local authorities the opportunity to help this family or child better, as it may also happen that the child is not given a degree of disability, but it still needs help. With this point, local authorities are already given the opportunity to start dealing proactively with this family and child. Its entry into force will now be postponed to 1 January. Both the local authorities and the Social Insurance Board and, of course, the Ministry agreed to this. As I said, the House of People with Disabilities has also been approached, which said that this is a very important change, and this needs to be done. But this six months [nothing] will not change, because all those who know that such a task is intended to be added to the local authorities can always turn there. A child does not even have to have a disability if anyone walks through the door of the Social Security Office and says that they are in trouble, then, I believe, in most local governments, I would like to say that all of them will get the help they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U329	Ladies and gentlemen, There's one minute to ask the question, that's 60 seconds. I'll ring the bell when 60 seconds is up. You can see when 60 seconds is up. Let's not drive like a lawn mower just calmly after the clock's gone. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U330	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your thorough presentation. The presentation was so good that it felt as if it itself had heard it in the Committee on Social Affairs. But you have also well justified the need for a Socialist amendment, I am thinking of families with children, so that when income support is calculated, family benefits paid every month under the Family Benefits Act would not be included in the income of the family. What should be the level of income support in the first place so that families with children who are in trouble can cope? What is the minimum and how many times have the Social Democrats proposed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U331	Thank you very much. We were indeed talking about this in the Commission. The reason for this was that the Minister in the Committee on Social Affairs, on several previous occasions, has stressed the need to increase social benefits and precisely income support. It even felt like this sometimes when I read the paper that it would come and be done right away. I really hope that this will perhaps happen now with an additional budget, because it is a directly targeted measure. As the previous proposals, which have also been tabled several times by the Social Democrats, have not been heard, the amendment from the Social Democrats therefore also came to the effect that if we do not raise the border, we will support families with children to cope and manage, because the income support will still be formalised by people in a very difficult economic situation. As I said, the Minister acknowledged and said that this is a very correct proposal, this is support for families with children, but it may lead to the exclusion of, for example, the three-child family allowance, which is currently EUR 520, and the income support only includes either the parent's small salary or the rest, it may not be an incentive to go to work. This also led to what I proposed, so that we could define this deadline, for example, in three months. The person becomes unemployed, it is a family with children, and within three months, the income support is formalised. This is the time during which he can collect, find a job, register at the unemployment fund. It seemed very reasonable. But indeed, this does not mean that income support should not rise. We know that, in fact, 220 [euro] is the minimum, but we hear that the coalition plans to come up with an increase in income support from today's 150 euros, which is intended for the first member of the family, the next adult gets 120 and all children, each child 180 euros, 200 euros. That is certainly right and reasonable. This measure, as we have already proposed on several occasions to increase income support, will help the unemployed, disabled people, the elderly and also families with children, who formalise income support because of financial difficulties. Income support is usually the last lifeline.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U332	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I don't know if this was due to the late hour of the night when we did this first reading together, that the minister was still in the fog on some issues. He argued that towns and municipalities were in a broad agreement [supporting] that they would be deprived of this activity in the care of grandparents. After that, I asked the union of extra cities and rural municipalities and received a ten-page letter where they dissected their concerns, and half a page was what they did not agree with. The Minister, of course, praised it. Please comment on how it was during the debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U334	Yes, indeed, this came to the debate at the Social Affairs Committee on 7 March, when the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities commented that an example of the city of Tartu was taken when carrying out the analysis, but there are only a few single grandchildren who pay [this fee], there is no cost. But I'm going to tell you personally, honestly, that I think this is the right move. Indeed, I consider this to be the right step, because several municipalities have also turned to their concerns that it is very difficult to find these grandchildren. Grandkids are often abroad, their pursuit and search are very difficult. One more thing. I believe you agree that the costs of people who are completely childless will be borne by local governments. The Association of Cities and Municipalities drew attention to this, it is true, and it was discussed for quite a while in the Committee on Social Affairs, the views of the Ministry were heard, the opinions of the Cities and Municipalities Association were also heard. It was discussed what the cost might be. I also say this, as Chairman of the Viljandi City Council, that we have undertaken an analysis to see how many grandchildren are involved. They're really lonely, but I can't say it doesn't cost anything. The whole system, which is planned to be financed on a component basis and for which 50 million is intended by the state, would certainly have made sense to be implemented at the same time, but it is in any case a step in the right direction. So, personally [I think so] and also in the Commission after the hearing, no one put it to the vote so that it should be deleted or considered annulled. I was just reporting on what happened at the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U335	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U336	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Personally, I again take the opposite view on the very issue on which you last replied. But it doesn't matter what either of us thinks. My question is that we in the Commission did not actually get an answer on the cost of a second-degree descending relative. Really to us, I remember, the minister gave the example of Tartu, but no one has taken into account Tartu's costs and whether to Tartu and, if so, in what form and when it will be compensated. Or do I remember wrong? In fact, we do not know how much this measure will cost, that grandchildren will no longer have to pay, and that will be the cost for local governments. How much do local governments have, and does the state intend to compensate for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U337	Yeah, you remember perfectly right. But surely you also remember that none of the Members of the Commission proposed either to analyse it or to come back to it. They didn't come to that. Maililis Kaljula commented on a situation where there is no real overview of those grandchildren who volunteer for maintenance obligations. He also said that it is really not right to generalise the example of the city of Tartu. It was also asked that if this law came into force, how much this could cause problems for local governments. Social workers in municipalities also had the [opinion] that this whole process, the search for grandchildren, often requires more expense and effort than participation. But in this you are right that the Cities Union has pointed out that there has not been an analysis and, in fact, no data. When the Social Affairs Committee requested data from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, it was not possible to provide them in such a short time. I expect it to rise as a subject when the law comes into force. Obviously, if this leads to additional obligations, those which are not directly linked to the granting of the aid to the extent that the municipality can cover them, then, where appropriate, the Court of Justice will also have its records. But I don't think so. It was indeed in the committee in our debate, both the views of the Cities Union and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and there was also a hearing of the views of the members of the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U338	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U339	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a feeling right now that the second reading must be interrupted. The government has come here with the bill and said there is no effect. First of all, it's a lie. The impact is because municipalities have to start paying for grandchildren. The second is that the Commission does not know and the Ministry does not know how many grandchildren there are now paying. That number doesn't exist. If someone actually has a cost, as long as there are no record of the facts that cover these costs, it is still very difficult. I must admit, I agree with you that grandchildren should definitely not pay. I also think that children should not pay. We've raised children, they don't have to be punished. But don't you think that right now maybe the second reading should be interrupted so that the Ministry would still come with the correct bill, with the cost side included? The fact that they don't want to do this and just somebody making some political decision is ugly, in my opinion. How do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U340	Thank you very much, Aivar. We often agree on social matters, especially as regards welfare and also the subject of children. Very often we agree, and we welcome this, because these issues are not always party politics, but are precisely linked to the need for assistance and the principles of such justice and equality. But today, I don't think so. The Association of Estonian Municipalities and Cities has not proposed to terminate [the proceedings] and there were no ambassadors in the Committee on Social Affairs who would have said that no, that is not the case, we are calling for new data, we are interrupting reading, we are stopping and we are coming back to it. The chairman of the committee, Siret Kotka, could certainly have done so by taking time and looking into it. Actually, they're gonna be watching these cases. As an example, no one is going to be without help. If these children or grandchildren are not sent, the municipality will assume this responsibility. Yeah, he'll decide later whether or not he'll go to court against that granddaughter. It's not like people aren't going to be helpless now, but it's just that children have an unreasonable amount of involvement. Grandkids, if they exist, often support and participate in their parents. However, this is relatively marginal. In Viljandi City, we were able to identify four or five cases. But no doubt you have to look at history. If the law becomes applicable, those who participate or have entered into a direct contract in, for example, another nursing home, not a municipal nursing home, have the right that the law no longer obliges them to pay. So I wouldn't propose to cancel. There are such good and important things in here. I am based on the fact that I respect the position of the Union of Municipalities and Cities, to draw attention to this problem. I hope that next time the Ministry of Social Affairs will also deal with this in more detail, not by calling or communicating with individual municipalities. But since the Union of Cities and Municipalities itself did not have this data and this knowledge, I personally do not consider it necessary to interrupt. It did not come up in the Committee on Social Affairs, but, of course, every Member or political group can table a motion to cancel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U341	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, if there's anything we can do better in the social field, I don't think any of us are against it. There's no doubt about that. It's just a question of who's paying for it. The state is really acting like a real raspberry here, putting even a small burden on it. By the way, what we have been talking about here on the subject of grandchildren is not the only obligation placed on the municipalities, to which the community of municipalities and cities also draws attention. These obligations are put to a dull degree by ignoring [municipal governments] and in the hope that if we do not carry out the analysis, we may say that there are no costs. I think it's mean, it's just mean. In fact, this is not the way the state should behave. It breaks down exactly what the Minister, as if he praised, is that there is good cooperation between the municipalities. Municipalities are the ones who care for our people first and foremost. I really don't agree with that. This is where my question comes from: how do you assess the cost side of this whole package per municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U343	Thank you very much. My role today is to report on the discussions that were in the Commission. This was not the case in the Commission. However, I very much agree with you because I was also very critical and, at first reading, I asked myself a question, firstly, as regards special care, that this analysis has not been carried out and that there is a problem for the municipalities. Since this was not reflected in this draft, there is no direct commitment at the moment, but it is being dealt with. The second is that the Ministry explained this to you from one part of the protocol, that it is not an additional task, that this impact assessment is also a case-by-case obligation of the municipality today. But I agree that this will definitely change the situation. When those who entered the door, who needed help, were previously dealt with, then now that someone turns to the Social Insurance Board to formalise the child's degree of disability, this information comes immediately to the municipality. I'm telling you the truth, it seems to me that in the case of children, the sooner the help gets, the better. But I agree that this should be followed by funding, because very, very many things that come so smoothly that these are your tasks actually lead to additional costs for the municipality that have not been compensated. We still know there's a verdict. But once again, as a Commission rapporteur today, I can say that this is not the way it came up in the Commission, but the draft itself is very much needed in many respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U344	Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U346	I'm opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U347	Yeah. And it'd be even nicer if I'd come up with more money. It'd be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U348	This can certainly be expressed in the negotiations. But the first to sign up is Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Social Democrats fully agree that the amendments introduced in the draft are a step in the right direction. However, unfortunately, two important concerns have been left unsolved. The urgent need for care reform has been mentioned for many years, and no action has been achieved. Much of the troubled attitudes come from thinking that this will not happen to me. Unfortunately, one thing will happen, and one thing will happen for sure: we will all grow old. We cannot pause aging until the country respects the dignity of the elderly. The main problem with long-term care is that people have a high level of ownership in paying for a nursing home. People's own participation has increased steadily and currently accounts for 80% of the cost of a nursing home. In a good case, the pension will cover half of it. After all, the cost of a nursing home goes twice as fast as the rise in the pension. A jumping increase in energy and food prices, several times more expensive personal protective equipment, the wage pressure of carers, all of this has increased the place fee by an average of €50 to €100 this year, in some places even more. More and more, access to the nursing home depends on the thickness of the elderly and their children's wallets. It is the duty of the state to come to the aid of the people here and change the system so that the family does not have exclusive responsibility. In a situation where older people's poverty in Estonia is the largest in Europe and, together with the ageing population, the number of people in need of care is increasing, action needs to be taken now and now. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, we have repeatedly discussed the topic of informal care in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu, making proposals to improve the situation. Social Democrats have consistently advocated the organisation of care that would allow the elderly to cope in their homes for as long as possible and, if necessary, to live in nursing homes for a pension. The State, together with the municipality, would pay the price difference. The organisation and cost of care are of great concern to the elderly. No one wants to be a burden to their children. The concerns of older people about their future cause them depression, even suicidal thoughts at worst. There are currently tens of thousands of people living in Estonia who have to arrange long-term care for their loved ones. Ten thousand are so busy that they have given up their paid work. In 2016, the Government of the Republic approved the "Health Development Plan 2016 We read: "Studies show that access to social services is difficult for those in need of help who have family members with maintenance obligations, since in most municipalities the provision of the service is not financed from the resources of the municipality. The person in need may be left without the necessary assistance if the financial situation of the family members does not allow the purchase of the service or if they do not wish to pay for the service. It should be borne in mind, however, that maintenance obligations often fall on adult children, who may at the same time have a need to support their own minor children. " As a result of an ageing population, participation in the labour market may be difficult for more people than today, precisely because they have to care for an elderly family member. This same document stresses the need to find sustainable cross-cutting solutions to the problem of maintenance burden. Second. Social democrats believe it is right that children and families with children who are in deep poverty and need income support receive greater support from the state. Even during the corona crisis, families with children suffered from income. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U350	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U351	The jumping increase in energy and food prices added its share, and the effects of the war have a galloping effect. Unfortunately, as always in difficult times, it is families with children, families with lower incomes and families with children who are hit first and foremost, those who, more or less, take all the money left in the housing costs directly to the grocery store. Estonia stands out in that we spend much of our income on food compared to other European countries. This, however, has put the recipients of income support, generally unemployed, single parents and people with partial or lack of working capacity in an even more difficult situation. According to our amendment, family benefits paid every month under the Family Benefits Act are not included in the future income of the family in the calculation of income support: child allowance, child allowance for single parents, child allowance for guardians, child-rich family allowance and triplet or multiple-numbered allowance. And now some numbers. The absolute poverty rate for children and young people up to 17 years of age had increased from 1.6% in 2018 to 2.7% in 2020. Let us note that we are talking about absolute, not relative, poverty, the rate of which is calculated for a child at a much lower weight than for an adult. It is a request that please support us in this time of very important changes. The Social Democrats will rely on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U352	Heiki Hepner, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U353	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the first reading took place at night when we were here with the minister. It may be that at other times such a late night hour can cause some problems when opening the subject. But indeed, if the Minister claimed that the cities and municipalities of Estonia were happy to agree with everything this bill proposes, then I had certain reservations and doubts. Having been a local government manager himself for a long time and having still been in contact with the local governments, I wrote to the union of cities and rural municipalities that same night and asked if this could be true. I received a ten-page letter with concerns that had come out. This shows how much consensus and good mind our cities and municipalities are. I basically rely on partial referendums on these concerns in my report. I am not going to read this ten pages to you, but to highlight certain points of emphasis and perhaps to open up a little bit. If we start to look, we will see that the first thing is that we really have failed to analyse what it will cost the municipalities. The municipalities raised this question in several sections of the draft law. I understand from the country that if it doesn't, you can say it doesn't cost anything. But it's not gonna make this cost go away. It has also been attempted to circumvent the fact that it has been said that there is an obligation, and we are not imposing a new obligation on you. There is no new obligation, but how do we oblige you to fill this obligation? It is a big difference whether we say that a person must be able to travel in public transport free of charge or be able to drive in a free taxi. Is there a difference or doesn't matter? Unfortunately, part of the problem with the draft is that they are trying to bypass, saying: we already have a general obligation. But now we're putting a much deeper responsibility on the municipalities how they have to comply with all of this. Indeed, everything that increases the social security of our people is welcome. I am certainly not opposed to this, nor is the Group of the Fatherland, to the least, but the question is simply who pays and whether the State has the right to reject it to the municipalities, so that it does not reimburse the costs. One example. A person is offered a home-service-style service, which in itself makes sense so that he can live for as long as possible at home or in a home-like environment. Very, very right. But again, the question is that it is now being pushed into the hands of the municipalities, without any analysis. That's not acceptable at all. Indeed, here too, from the Commission rapporteur, we heard about the requirements for social workers. After all, this is another cost in itself if we raise qualifications requirements. We all want our people to get the most highly qualified service, so that it is actually provided by the people who can best provide it. But there's another question about who's gonna pay for the difference. One thing is training, but it's not just training. If we want to get a higher qualification, this will immediately increase the basic wage level. The Supreme Court has said that such obligations must not actually be imposed on local governments. I will give an example when we have decided in this Chamber that there is no problem, let the municipalities bear these costs. It is a land tax for land under nature conservation, with more than EUR 4 million being lost to local governments every year. The country just says: come on, good municipalities, don't you really want to protect nature, so take on part of the country's responsibilities and be proud that you can make these expenses. You can't do that. You can't do that! Everyone should bear their own costs. There are also substantive problems that they are leading [to attention]. For example, our IT solutions in social welfare are also very substantive issues that need to be resolved. But now, finally, on the subject of whether the grandchildren have certain responsibilities for the care of their grandparents. The municipalities are very clear about this. One thing is that we all want to minimise the burdens we [created] on both grandchildren and children. Nor am I against children having to pay for their parents' home services. Ideally, when I get this old, I'm gonna be able to handle myself. It's an ideal society. But if we commit someone to bear these costs in any case, if the State puts it, then it must also give it the means to do so. Municipalities cannot autonomously establish their own revenue base. That's a big problem with the whole thing. The Municipalities Association also points out that it is indeed a private matter. In the event of the introduction of the amendments to the bill, there may be an unreasonable barrage of rights, for example, for individuals who need additional maintenance at some point in their lives, because children are no longer alive from grandchildren who have been raised as guardians and who have incurred maintenance costs. Such matters should also be considered and [these problems] resolved when we place these responsibilities on the municipalities. There are still a large number of [questions]. As I said, there are ten pages of text that point to problems. Consequently, the Isamaa Group proposes that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U354	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the hall, I understand that the social sector is mostly interested in the health sector by the good people who, in my opinion, are always listening in this Chamber. This draft is another bad example of how people come from the ministry and just throw a paper on the Commission, and the Commission has to chew through it and try to do a good thing about this poor thing. I must admit that the Committee on Social Affairs is, of course, fortunate that there are such good officials who do this work with such a heart. I myself have had the opportunity to lead this committee and to get to know the good work myself. But I have to admit, they can't and can't do everything either, compared to the ministry where there are many more officials. The content of the draft is very good. Of course, I do not agree that my grandchildren should pay for me either. Yeah, I think I've been a good dad, raised three daughters, trained them, and now I'm having a good time dealing with grandkids as a grandpa, but not because they're gonna have to work for me in years. I'm gonna try and handle this on my own. But the twists of life can be different, and it can happen that you need help overnight. For every draft, there should also be a very clear analysis of what it costs and who is paying for it. The same thing was asked by the Union of Cities and Municipalities. They said there was no effect. Then they asked how many granddaughters would pay for granddaughters or granddads. "I don't know. " You come with the bill, you introduce the bill by the Ministry, people in the ministry get paid for it. We have different areas and we do not have thousands of nursing homes. Most nursing homes, I think, will be happy to tell you who's paying for these people. You could know the size. If we know what it costs, then there is a [potential] next decision as to whether the municipalities are willing to support it. As my father said: in the Estonian era it was very clear that every municipality must take care of its own people. That is also true today. If local governments sometimes say they don't have the funds, then having been in the local government this year I've been in the council for more than 30 years, I know that the money is always there. A few years ago, I proved in six months that saving 10% of the rural municipality's budget is not at all difficult, it is relatively simple. It is simply a matter of deciding who or what the funds are being used for and how much support the European Union can receive. If Helmen hadn't defended this bill, I would have been very critical. I can't be critical of Helmen because I know he's a person who's worked in this field all his life and worked with a great deal of heart. I know very quickly in this Chamber who knows his field and who does this job with his heart. I also liked the fact that this is an area where not everyone follows political parties. There was, I can admit, a scream and a fight in the morning on the exact same subject: who fought for the municipalities not to have to pay for it or for the money to come from somewhere else, and I said that children and grandchildren should not have to pay for it. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U356	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U357	In my opinion, it makes sense today to interrupt the second reading of the draft, to make rapid discussions in the Commission and to ask the Ministry for these data, these numbers. Perhaps it is as it was said here that there are some in Tartu and five in Viljandi, and the rest of the municipalities are not. Okay, the two municipalities are willing to bear these costs and the concern is solved. But all of a sudden, in a small municipality with a budget of 80% and a revenue base as low as it can be, most of the revenue base is money from the State's fine-tuning fund, where there are not just those funds, there are dozens of people who are taken care of by grandchildren. Then the question is more acute. In my opinion, equal treatment is also important in any draft law. After all, the topic is that somewhere in the municipality there will be this cost and no one in the municipality will have this cost. And we can't tell you how this map is distributed because the ministry just shrubbers shoulders and says he doesn't know. The Commission says that we did not think to ask, and when we asked, we did not get an answer. But we are voting here because the idea is right, the goal is noble and proud. But isn't that better half an egg than an empty shell? Maybe so. But maybe it's easier to take a week or two, look at these things and find financial opportunities. I'm saying that maybe the financial number isn't that big, but the support of one person is already a year... [[A voice from the hall.]] You see, Heiki said 6,000. This certainly depends on a person's pension, 90% of which is taken away, plus the cost of this place. I can tell you what is a very simple solution to these concerns. The State has built nursing homes with an average cost twice as high as that of a private operator. If you go to that house, I think [see] the private home is certainly not worse, often better, but somehow prices have been twice as expensive in the construction of the [state nursing home]. Of course, then there will also be a problem with maintenance costs. Competition is a very good thing, but I laugh that sometimes the money from nursing homes is distributed as politically. I know a private entrepreneur in a municipality in Jõgeva County made a very beautiful nursing home, all the people in this area had seats, but the state found that his people were in power there, should also give money, and they also made a nursing home there now. They compete on the same market alone. Today, both are crowded because there is a shortage of nursing homes, not over. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But once again, I cannot make drafts that do not have [costs] estimates or say that there is no financial cost, how clearly there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U358	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U359	Thank you very much. I'll have eight minutes, please. But I'll be quick.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U360	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U361	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I was in the role of being a Commission waitress, I could not say everything in this sense. I would like to add more now, because at second reading everyone has a good opportunity, all of us in this Chamber, to come and speak more. I'm taking advantage of this opportunity. Indeed, I agree with my colleagues who spoke earlier, before me, that it is not right to impose such sneaky tasks on local authorities, saying that this is your responsibility anyway. But I myself, at first reading, drew attention to this in the round of questions. There was such an interesting situation where the Minister for Social Protection told us that neither the Union of Cities and Municipalities needed any coordination [to] to be informed, they would let us know. In fact, as was clear in the Committee on Social Affairs, it is still the duty to involve local governments in coordination and to take their opinion into account through the Association of Municipalities and Cities of Estonia. What do I want to talk about? At night, at first reading, I also spoke. I am also very concerned about the reputation of the Social Affairs Committee simply because the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Social Affairs Committee on 14 December 2016. This concern concerned one particular care service, a service to support a person's daily life, in the Social Welfare Act. There were cases where access to the service could be hindered by the [application] of § 89 of the Social Welfare Act, which regulates the financing of the service, in such a way that the necessary costs were not covered. That's a problem. At the time when I myself led the Social Affairs Committee, we had a meeting on 14 January 2017 at which Ms Krais-Leosk, who was then working in the Ministry of Social Affairs, was now in charge of the House of Disabled People, really informed that there was a plan to review the whole special care system, the design process was under way and in 2018 a draft was scheduled to come up for a whole special care system, which should have been resolved as well. The Committee on Social Affairs was really pleased with the fact that the matter was being dealt with, the Chancellor of Justice has turned to the problem, it is coming to this in 2018. 2018 nobody came, 2019 the elections were held. In the Social Welfare Act, the subject is not regulated. On 19 January, the Chancellor of Justice turned again, because this concern is very serious. He also referred to what was promised for 2018 and to the fact that nothing has happened to date. Why did I come to speak today? How do I say? Ultimately, if things are not regulated, the demanding nature of the committees, when certain promises are made, should be greater. It must be monitored whether the promises that are made are fulfilled. I absolutely don't blame officials. Both the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries have good officials working. There will be changes in government, changing ministers, sometimes the same ministers or ministers of the same party, but there will be new priorities, new coalition agreements. We are in a situation where this problem remains unresolved. This has been pointed out both by the Foundation Moving Sun Home and, as I pointed out in the report, by the Company Care Services. This problem is unsolved. I really hope, and I believe, that the Committee on Social Affairs will monitor very closely this time that 2022 at least these drafts are at the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and also when it is adopted in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. As a rapporteur for the Commission, I could not thank the Members of the Commission for a very good debate and, of course, for their very strong support for the proposals of the Socialists, because the four votes of support are still a very good result. It's not a world-view [question], it's a situation, a sense of the problem. Prices in the care home are growing very quickly, and many loved ones are forced to remain the caretaker, not of their own accord. If someone wants to maintain [close] care, it is very welcome, but then he must also have certain guarantees, holiday facilities, support services and help so that the carer does not become himself at one point in time. But it's not because you're forced to do it because you can't pay. Believe me, local governments, I can say this when I put it to my heart, after 20 years of self-directing the municipal social services, everything is done, but the wallet is just as tight as the state's wallet. Priorities must be set. It is very difficult to fulfil these obligations when additional tasks are given and, for example, when additional ones are given for half the financial year. So once again: I think this bill is a good one, but there is a need to negotiate more with the municipalities and get it straight. We very much hope that in 2023 there will be component-based funding, with different components, and that the local government, the state and the person can cover them with their pensions. But once again, the best place to live is a man's own home. Municipalities have the opportunity to apply for money for the construction of service houses and to create the possibility that people can manage their pension at home, in a service house or in a social housing, as we call it. The most important thing for a man is that he has his own room, his own permission, I'm not disturbing anyone. That's what movie classics and play classics say. I think this measure is very correct. We do not have to contribute to the most expensive service. But a certain number of people need this service, not everyone leaves this life, skates on their feet and tennis rec in their hands, some also need care. So once again: better cooperation with municipalities, clearer funding principle. This is certainly what creates trust between local governments, the state and the people who live there. After all, according to the [Social] Welfare Act, the general care home service is a service provided by the local government. We have both children and grandchildren to pay for it, but it's going to change, I think, it's reasonable and good. Aivar, I agree with you a hundred percent that children have to raise their children. It is quite clear that living as long as possible in your home is better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U362	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Six of them have been received for the bill. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs itself and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 2, the Social Democratic Party Group of the author, together with Raimond Kaljulaid, has failed to do so. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U363	Thank you. This is such a good amendment that it must certainly be supported, but in order to be able to support it, it must be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U364	Yes, it does, and before that, you'll have to do a hall call. A little memo for recently arrived in the hall. We are in the process of reviewing the amendments to the Social Welfare Act and the other draft law amending the Law 510. We have reached the second amendment. The author of the proposal is the Group of the Social Democratic Party with Raimond Kaljulaid, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. The Social Democrats asked for it to be voted on. So please take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U365	17 delegates support the proposal, 45 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, the author is the Committee on Social Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid, has been disregarded by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U366	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U367	Yeah, let's vote now. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party together with Raimond Kaljulaid. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. I'm asking for your position. Vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U368	There are 18 delegates in favour of the proposal, 44 against the proposal. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment, the author's Social Affairs Committee and the Commission themselves have taken full account of their proposal. The sixth amendment, as well as the author's Committee on Social Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments to draft 510. The Commission has proposed ending the second reading, but the Isamaa Group has proposed suspending the second reading of draft 510. That is what we must vote on. I shall put to the vote the proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 510. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U369	The proposal for interruption is supported by 6 delegates, against 52. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U370	We can go to today's fourth item: the presentation by the Minister for Defence of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" in 2022, and the rapporteur is Minister Kalle Laanet. I'll tell you what this thing looks like. First, Kalle Laanet's presentation, up to 30 minutes, followed by a round of questions, each member of the Riigikogu has one oral question, and the round of negotiations, the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. We won't make any decisions at the end. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U371	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The viewers, the hearers! Honourable Riigikogu! I am here today with a presentation on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" in the area of the Ministry of Defence. The "Estonia 2035" strategy sets general objectives for the defence sector, complemented by the foundations of security policy and described in much more detail in the four-year development plan of the Ministry of Defence, which is updated every year, and in the ten-year national defence development plan of the Government of the Republic, which is updated every four years. Currently, the "State Protection Development Plan 2022 to 2031" is valid. However, before I go into my presentation to meet the objectives, I would like to emphasise the importance of developing national defence in our present world. More than a month has passed since the eight years of the Russian-Ukraine war began a full-scale attack on the entire free Ukraine. This black day changed the world and significantly our security situation. In order to achieve the country's strategic objectives, the country's foundation, or national defence, must be iron-proof and develop in a sustainable manner. By defending the freedom of our country, we will ensure the blue-black-white wave in the Tall Hermann Tower in 2035 and in 2135. The development of national defence must be based on a threat picture and risk assessments. Conventional warfare hasn't gone anywhere. Russia's conventional military forces are currently actually on the battlefield on a large scale. The full-scale warfare was preceded by years of influence, both in the form of information war and cyber attacks. Consequently, in order to ensure Estonia's security, the key shortcomings of defence capabilities need to be developed [to be removed], the broad concept of national defence must be applied in depth, and close relations with allies and partner countries must be maintained. Russia has the ability to further significantly increase military capacity and expand active military action against NATO. As a small country, we must consider being a target. The key to Estonia's success in winning a potential war is its ability to anticipate and our great and capable allies. The task of the intelligence authorities is to bring a preliminary warning to the decision-makers several weeks earlier so that we can send the armed forces built up for the reserve army and the additional Allied forces to the so-called field to defend our country. In assessing the potential threat, account must also be taken of the [signs] culture of governance inherent in the criminal culture of the Russian Federation: lawlessness, violence and cruelty are inherent to them and humanity is a stranger. Estonia's goal here must be to find unity in Western society and to assist friendly countries. We can be internationally as a glue that integrates the interests of the allies of the great powers in order to ensure our own security. Our country can be a fast international decision-maker because of its small size and thus re-emerge significant trust credits among our partners. Last year, Estonia was the first to assist Lithuania, Latvia and Poland in a hybrid attack on the European Union's external borders initiated by Belarus and orchestrated by the Kremlin. We sent a hundred miles of barbed wire to Lithuania right after the first request for help. Until today, the target units of the Estonian Defence Forces are helping the Polish border. We started the debate on military assistance to Ukraine in December of last year. After a passionate debate here in the Riigikogu Hall, the first anti-tank weapons we donated reached the surface of Ukraine on 18 February. Strategically, as we stand for Estonia's security, we must continue to do so and to respond to events that do not occur in the immediate vicinity of our borders, but have a significant impact on our own security. We must not expect conflicts to expand, but we must try to deescalate before escalating. Estonia has behaved similarly with international military operations. Estonia went first to help our ally France in Mali and confirmed its participation in its missions. The contribution to solidarity, in cooperation with our allies, will restore our security in our home country. In Mozambique, we have up to five armed forces on a mission led by Portugal. Portugal has contributed four times in recent years to supporting the security of the Baltic States in the air security mission. The two nuclear nations of Europe, France and the United Kingdom, contribute to the eFP mission in Estonia. Today, the British are in the NATO battle group with more than 1,500 soldiers in Estonia, which includes both Challenger tanks and numerous other armored vehicles. In addition, in Ämari, the fighters of both the French and Belgians will secure the airspace of Estonia and the Baltics. We plan to get multiple rocket launchers with Latvia and Lithuania. Last December, the Baltic defence ministers agreed on a joint regional capacity development project. Common capabilities would enable the Baltic States to support each other even without crossing national borders in a crisis situation. In particular, through multiple rocket launcher capability development, but also by developing an integrated maritime awareness and increasing the contribution of NATO allies in the region, we will strengthen deterrence and protection. [We also seek] to adapt the entire NATO long-term deterrence and protection stance to the changed threat picture. Long-term decisions are under way in the Member States and are expected to be confirmed at the NATO Summit in Madrid in June at the latest. Estonia's goal is to strengthen NATO's eastern wing substantially on a permanent basis. For this purpose, the Prime Minister will do, I will do, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will do, and the majority of Estonian diplomats will work every day. Regional cooperation will take place from mid-May this year until the beginning of June in the major exercise "Silver 2022." The venue is South-Estonia and Northern Latvia, with nearly 20,000 conscripts, reserve troops, defence allies, Allied soldiers and active troops participating. A cross-border exercise prepares our soldiers to protect the entire Baltic region. Cross-regional exercises should become a regular annual activity, we are one operating room. In summary, about allies: we need to be quick and consistent in order to maintain and develop allies, which are existentially important for the security of Estonia. Good listeners! Now, defense costs and capacity developments. Estonian defence is one of the most cost-effective in the North Atlantic Union. We can quickly put out a 30,000-member orienteering reserve forces and combatable defence forces, as well as volunteers from the Defence League. We have achieved a great deal in the last ten years. Of the new capabilities that have been or are already being developed in the last year, I will read the following. Acquisition of marine mines, comprehensive anti-ship missile system, one-off midland anti-tank missiles, new generation anti-tank grenade launchers Carl-Gustavid, new ATMs R20 Rahed. In addition, in the next four years, we will significantly increase the stockpiles of ammunition, come new communication systems, in cooperation with other Baltic States we will acquire MLRS, armor another infantry brigade, modernise Ämari airport and acquire additional air surveillance radars to ensure clearer aerial coverage. We have created a cyber-military command, with more than 200 conscripts since 2023. We have fully supported the functioning of the Defence Union as a well-equipped and trained territorial security carpet. The allocation of 103 additional million into the defence budget of 2022 last year and the extraordinary EUR 380 million additional injection into national defence in January of this year have brought the defence costs of the Estonian state to an unprecedented level. Most of the additional money allocated in January will be devoted to increasing ammunition reserves and building infrastructure, as well as improving intelligence capabilities. The substantial increase in defence costs by the January decision of the Government of the Republic to enhance security raises defence costs to the next level: 2022 2.33%, 2023 2.44%, 2024 2.59%. The March decision brings these percentages very close to 3%. A precise picture of the percentage will be found in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy in the autumn. On 24 March at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, we approved another additional package to strengthen Estonian national defence. The military capability developments of this package are in line with the primary lessons learned from the Ukrainian war. The objective is the immediate development of military defence with an additional injection of 476 million. It includes the development of short-range anti-aircraft, the acquisition of additional anti-tank weapons, the raising of the driving power, the improvement of situational awareness, the adoption of additional Allied soldiers to create infrastructure, more than double the defence structure of the Defence Union. All these additional developments can be implemented over the next two years. We also decided on a road map to develop midland anti-aircraft capability in Estonia by 2025 at the latest. Agreed, the Ministry of Defence will now have the task of preparing an accelerated plan for the acquisition of midland anti-aircraft capabilities in cooperation with Estonia's largest ally over the next four months. In the short term, it will be possible to bring the medieval anti-aircraft capability to Estonia before we can develop it independently. A more detailed time frame for financing and obtaining independent mid-country anti-aircraft will be decided in the course of the preparation of the budgetary strategy 2023.2026. The "Estonia 2035" strategy foresees protection costs of at least 2% of GDP and their persistence in line with the emerging threat picture. The 2 per cent threshold will definitely need to be revised as a result of the emerging threat. My proposal is to review the Estonian defence budget floor by 2% of GDP in subsequent development plans and strategies. The consistently higher percentage contribution will ensure the sustainable development of the Defence Forces and the maintenance of existing capabilities. The defence budget floor should be supplemented by extraordinary high capacity development investments, such as priority mid-earth air control, which has certainly been reported in 2023.2026. The 2009 national budget strategy. One of the priorities of the "Estonia 2035" strategy for security is greater cross-cutting cooperation. Here our defence arrangements have taken a major step towards efficiency and cost-effectiveness, because in the end the Government of the Republic decided to join the Defence Forces fleet of the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board, i.e. the Navy. The PBGB transfers its maritime tasks and resources to the Defence Forces. The eastern neighbour has always considered the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea to be of paramount importance. Isn't it strategically and tactically understandable what it would mean for Estonia if we didn't have control over free movement in close sea areas? It's a hundred times easier to say than to do. In addition to the free sea flows of us, the Baltic States and Finns, it is vital that our allies also move to and with us at sea. The most important thing is deterrence so that the neighbor does not be tempted to actually carry out the practice of maneuvers in our country. Merging the fleets brings more days at sea, which strengthens Estonia's independent defence capability and improves allies' ability to respond to the conflict in the region. The performance of civil tasks shall not be reduced or given in terms of quality. Peacetime patrol capacity is increasing, with the EEZ being able to identify more effectively, for example, the other ships of the Russian Federation's military and state. We have a better picture of ourselves. The aim is still a comprehensive understanding of what is happening at our sea, while our national defence is visible. This reduces the desire of hostile forces to test our maritime borders. All vessels will operate in a unified chain of command. This fact, in addition to quantitative growth, increases our national readiness to intervene operationally in a crisis situation. The marine picture under a single roof and the joint operational managers shall provide a clear and comprehensive overview of what is happening at sea in cooperation. The central hub of the future will deal with the management and resolution of air and sea rescue events both within Estonia's rescue area and, if necessary, outside Estonia. The Centre remains connected on a daily basis to the Alarm Centre in the area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to other authorities involved in maritime activities in the country and to the respective centres in neighbouring countries. All of this together is an effective step towards becoming a serious maritime state in Estonia. In summary, it can be said that the interconnection of fleets is certainly the largest cross-cutting state reform in recent history. In order to ensure security and security, a broad understanding of national defence needs to be implemented, close relations with allies and partner countries should be maintained and, in cooperation with them, effective functioning of international organisations and international law ensured. Cross-cutting cooperation is also important for security. A model for cross-sectoral cooperation is also the "Okas 2021" additional study meeting held in November 2021. Its purpose was to verify the readiness to fight, in which the operation of the national defence chain of command was checked from government decision-making to the assembly of the reserve forces belonging to the Rapid Response Structure. The reserve units invited to the additional training meeting "Okas 2021" reached full combat readiness within 48 hours. In addition, cooperation was practiced with the Police and Border Guard Board, which was supported in establishing a temporary border fence. Eleven additional cooperation with the PBGB made it possible to actually strengthen the security of the state border during the study gathering. That's exactly what the textbook looks like about a wide-spread defense. Such examples must become the norm in the training of the Estonian stateguards. The area of government of the Ministry of Defence also contributes to taking into account the knowledge acquired in the Defence Forces in school education. At the moment, discussions are taking place with universities to take into account, for example, ITK knowledge acquired in cyber-time services as credit points in IT specialties. In addition, negotiations have started with IT houses in other areas of government, such as RIA and SMIT, in order to provide training opportunities for cyber-timers as part of military training, to involve them in the work of IT houses and in solving cyber-crisis, including after entering the reserve. In the context of the military training process, the aim is to prepare a reserve that is well-informed with national IT solutions and to set up engagement mechanisms to address the cyber crisis, which is substantially increasing the speed of response to and resolution of the crisis. The Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence also consider it important to maintain a balance between security and the development of renewable energy in Estonia. On the way to climate neutrality, Estonia has set itself the goal of achieving at least 42% share of renewable energy in total final energy consumption by 2030. In the near future, the greatest need is to increase electricity generation from renewable sources. Thus, Estonia has set the target that by 2030 renewable electricity production will have to grow at least twice as much as in 2020. Investment in wind power generation equipment is a cost-effective way of producing renewable electricity. Compared to the use of fossil fuels, the production of electricity from renewable sources is much more spatially intensive, so it is necessary to open up as much of Estonia's territory as possible to wind farms in order to promote both the achievement of objectives and competition between producers. In order to achieve this goal, the Government of the Republic has decided to launch an additional continental Estonia compensatory measure by 2024, after which 60% of the national defence altitude restrictions will be released, approximately 27000 square kilometres from mainland Estonia's territory, Estonia's land area, and it can potentially be used for the development of wind energy. As an example, in the case of 1000 megawatts of land windmills with a utilisation factor of 30%, three terawatt-hours of electricity are produced annually, which accounts for 31% of electricity consumption in Estonia. This is an important step towards ensuring energy security. I will bring out the amendment of the National Defence Act by the law on national defence. The RiKS Amending Act created better conditions for the use of civil resources, for the provision of independent defence capabilities and for the reception of allies. The legislative changes provide a legal framework for making the most efficient use of people and resources in national defence, creating better conditions for the use of civil resources. The amendments define the content of the national defence obligations so that all authorities and persons are clear as to which tasks the State expects them to carry out or which toleration obligations the State may impose on them in order to achieve the objective of national defence. The amendments will introduce a comprehensive overhaul of the national defence enforcement regime and make the imposition of restrictive measures, including the handling of forced executions, more flexible and faster as a whole. In turn, faster enforcement will contribute to faster combat preparedness. In addition, the draft establishes the possibility of obtaining fair compensation for the direct costs of using the civilian resources of persons. The basis for the organisation of Estonian national defence is a broad approach. Everyone must contribute to national defence. It's about protecting people. If Lennart Meri once said that the nuclear weapon of a small country can be an international law, looking at today's world and, more specifically, analysing the Ukrainian war, it can be said that the Ukrainian nuclear weapon is currently their defence. It's a weapon we have to bet on. Since 2000, Estonians' support for NATO membership has risen to 78%. The Estonian Defence Forces consider 79% of the Estonian population to be credible. In 2021 72% of the Estonian population considered armed resistance to the attack to be more or less necessary. According to its own abilities and skills, it would be more or less willing to participate in defence activities by 57% of the population. We must promote this awareness and determination of protection in Estonia every day as part of civic education. The contribution of the Defence League, as a voluntary national defence organisation, plays an extremely important role in this. I believe that quick action during the COVID-19 pandemic, when the Defence Forces paramedics went to hospitals to help them, even a separate Defence Forces field hospital was erected at Kuressaare Hospital, contributed to the integrity of the Defence Forces. The militia was visible, present, and useful. In every crisis, the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence are ready to help the country, and as a result, the majority of Estonian society is ready to come to the aid of its country in the event of crises. I will conclude my presentation with a guideline that I received when I met the National Defence Commission before today's report. It was asked to avoid tagging and personal attacks on defence issues and to be extremely careful with the information provided in commenting on defence. I totally agree with that. Any humiliation of the leadership of the Estonian Defence Forces and, for example, the Defence Forces must stop. This behaviour does not create greater security for Estonia. In addition to the aggressive behaviour of the Russian Federation, and thus the significant deterioration in the security of our region, Estonia's security threat has been identified as no. 2. Last year, the people of Estonia assessed the spread of false news as one of the greatest threats. Almost 78% of people thought it was a likely threat. The protection of truth and truth provides a healthier and more united society. Let's not break our country with lies, slander and mockery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U372	Thank you very much. Now it's time for questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U373	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, If we look at your thesis, as well as the narrow part of the text that the strategy "Estonia 2035" has, then one bearing number is there... Well, there are a little more numbers, but one bearing number is that 2% of GDP. You have also given an overview of where we could reach with investments already decided or under decision, and that 3% will not be too far in the coming years. Here's my question. Would it still be wise to increase it by 2%, even now, to take the decision that it will be at least 3%, because these investments will inevitably result in an increase in administrative costs, in overheads, in the costs of keeping these things running? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U374	Thank you for that question. I absolutely agree that any new capacity development will also increase the fixed cost and that this fixed cost must, of course, be borne by the state budget, in addition to investments. I guess it's a debate by the end of the day about what that percentage would be, which would be the next level of ambition. Indeed, we have exceeded this 2% long ago, we must look forward, we must set new limits. Yes, if we look at our allies and partners, we will see that many countries have not yet achieved this 2%. Of course, a very strong call has been made in one of the last European Union strategic documents for the adoption of a strategic compass for other EU Member States to achieve a 2% border as a matter of urgency. But as far as we are concerned specifically, indeed, this is the place of political debate, the place of agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U375	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U376	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Let us now talk specifically about numbers. In January, the government announced that 380 million were allocated to national defence. A few days ago, at the debate on the additional budget, it was at 400-500 million. At the same time, in this very Chamber, the government has said that at least 200 million have helped Ukraine, which is a billion in size. We could rewrite it. We asked the Ministry of Finance that, for example, the 200 million with which Ukraine has been helped, where it is on the line. It was claimed that all purchases made on the side of the Ministry of Defence, from the side of the Defence Forces, would go to expenses on the same day. Now, why don't you open up the billion budget lines on which they've been spent and when they're going to be spent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U377	Thank you for that question. Indeed, this order of magnitude is roughly a billion if we take the last six months, from September to the last decision, which was on 24 March. As we know, we have an accrual-based budget; this year's budget will only have a very small share of the additional budget. When we talk about this second package or the last package, it is 14.5 million, the rest goes to the RES, the national budget strategy. If we're talking about this 340 million, not 380, 340 million in the Department of Defense budget, there's basically ammunition for the acquisition, we have a deficit there. As we know, this is reflected in the accounts when it comes in, when the contracts are made and probably there... [[A voice from the hall.]] What do you mean, based on what? We are talking about the decision of the government and the budgetary strategy of the country. If we want to argue on what basis, then the basis is very clear. The government has decided, in anticipation, that if there is a need to pay specifically for ammunition or weapons systems next year, this money will be available in the budget. When we talk specifically about the aid we have given to Ukraine, the European Union has decided to create a peace facility of roughly 1 billion. Not 1 billion, 100 billion. I'm starting to think now. Yeah, I guess a billion is right. With regard to the aid that has been granted to Ukraine, we have the opportunity to ask for financial resources to rebuild our stocks. We have submitted a request, which has been accepted, amounting to 179 million. Those are the moves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U378	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U379	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the case of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we see today that the greatest advantage of the Ukrainian forces is motivation, defence, high fighting standards. In Estonia, the Defence League is a voluntary national defence organisation, which plays a very important role in the formation of the will for defence. But the Board of Elders of the Defence League complains that the Department of Defense is harassing the Defence League. We also recently had a meeting with representatives of the Defence League in the Group. As far as I know, the Central Assembly is of the same opinion. This concerns, in particular, the plan to centralise support services, which the Ministry has and which the Defence League does not agree with, as this limits their freedom of decision and competence. Does the Ministry of Defence force against the Defence League, or does the voluntary National Defence Organisation take into account the position and proposal of the Defence Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U380	I am more than convinced that the Ministry of Defence will not go against anyone in Estonia, but will go with someone towards fulfilling their goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U381	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U382	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. An important starting point for Estonia's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035" is the broad concept of national defence, as you also highlighted very well in your presentation. One part of this broad approach is the readiness for hybrid threats. The development of information technology is excellent, but there is also another part of this development, which has been presented very well here in this short summary with one example: last year, the people of Estonia assessed the spread of false news as one of the greatest threats. My question is this: how much does this broad concept of national defence involve developing critical thinking, educating the young generation on these threats?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U383	Thank you for that question. We are talking more and more about this, and not only are we talking about it, but we are also acting in the direction of taking the nature of national defence, the basics of national defence into school benches and even below, so that the understanding of the protection of the Estonian state is as broad as possible, so that it is in the education system. Today it is not a mandatory subject, but defence training exists. I'm sure it needs to be expanded, increased. It will, of course, take on the state's resources again, but I think that, from the point of view of national sovereignty and independence, none of the euro will be too much if we achieve the goal of a stronger and better protected country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U384	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U385	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle, thank you for this presentation. You rightly focused on the influence of the Ukrainian war and on the decisions we have made under this war. But I'm going to take this strategy to myself for a second. We accepted it last spring, a year ago. I was already very critical at the time that it didn't quite match our security situation, and there's not much written down there. All the things you did, all the things that the government does, that strategy didn't oblige you to do. The question is, what are we going to do with this strategy? Should we now make a new strategy because many other areas have been affected by the war, and now all other crises too? What are we supposed to do with this strategy anyway? You've done a lot more than that strategy prescribed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U386	Thank you, good Leo! This is indeed a very important question and it is, of course, difficult to give an answer. As we have said repeatedly and repeatedly, and we also know very precisely, on 24 February 2022 the world changed. The question is whether we can think ahead about the serious and real effects of this change. After all, we lived in some way in Europe in pink satisfaction that there would be no war. What happened in Ukraine, Crimea, was somehow remote, that it would somehow work out. I am talking now in the European context. I must admit that I had a conversation with the French Minister of Defence at the beginning of this week, and he admitted very clearly that they were blue-eyed. He said: "We were blue eyes, we didn't believe it. " Today, when we are in a completely different situation, we might still have to look at these documents and make adjustments. In fact, it has really changed everything, not just national defence and security. This is the point of discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U387	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U388	Good manager! Mr. Secretary of Defense! If the annual report of the Minister for Social Protection was 50 lines, then you have managed to handle 34 lines. It's such a small remark. But this morning an Estonian man approached me. He's got a big problem. They had put weapons and ammunition together with the men, they had a company of friends under Kiev, that they would give their weapons to them. They had given them to the Police and Border Guard Board, and now their friends in Ukraine are asking where are your weapons that you promised. Maybe you can help them get those guns that come back to where the bombs are falling and all that? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you think such a civil initiative is acceptable in order to voluntarily send weapons and ammunition to someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U389	Let us put it this way, as a common citizen, that every initiative that will help Ukraine win the troops of the Russian Federation is, of course, welcome. But if we take another aspect of how this is legally supposed to happen, there are certainly many pirouettes and details, how these weapons get there, which rules they have to comply with, and so on and so forth. I know from my own hands how difficult it is to get all these weapons shipments from the Ministry of Defence to Ukraine across the border, so that the lives of those taking them are not compromised, these shipments are not compromised, and this burden reaches the target. It's not that simple, you throw a gun on your shoulder and walk from here to Ukraine. It has to be coordinated, I say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U390	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U391	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A 5000-man rapid response unit is in place in Europe. My question is: can this unit also be used in the Member States in the event of civil unrest? I would be very grateful if you would send documents on the use of the Rapid Response Unit. It does not wish to receive oral explanations from the Chancellor or the Minister, but a specific document on the use of the Rapid Response Unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U392	We'll send it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U393	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! We have already had this debate with you in public twice on the reduction of the Defence Union budget by 5% this year and by 2% next year. I called and checked the second time. You know, the Defence League says they've really been given such an order from the Department of Defense. I now ask you for the third time, do you at one point have a plan to cut the budget for the year 5 million and next year a very significant amount that will eventually have to be cut off from the staff costs and say that we will not cut the budget of the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U395	Yes, I will answer you, as I replied in Question Time: no one has decided to cut 2% of the budget of any authority in the Ministry of Defence's administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U396	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U397	Thank you. Well, the batter came here from the Defence Forces and the Defence League, the orchestras were lost, and whatever, the personnel were reduced. I think it is understandable that the French Minister for Defence did not understand these dangers. But the fact that in November, when the development plan was adopted in Estonia, these dangers were also not understood, although our party, as well as your party's experts, and also the National Defence Committee, all argued that this development plan was not suitable for anywhere, but it was still pushed through, is very sad. But I'd like to ask you this. You promised in the fall that the Defence League would get $3 million for uniforms. There are now hundreds of new members, and there are really no equipment to give them, there are no instructors, there are no staff to deal with them, because all of this has been reduced at all times. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you give a man's word that when people come, you get the equipment and the money you need, you get the money you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U398	For two years, there will be 30 million extra money to train, dress, get personal protective equipment and get weapons. EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U399	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U400	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Well, it's a question of interpretation, how is it? If the Defence League is given more responsibilities, but no additional funds are put in place, then it is still, to some extent, a reduction in the budget. I do not know what has caused this, that some parties do not like the Defence League at all. Well, that's what he is. I just want to ask you that here's Toompea 8 at the Defence League headquarters, a beautiful house, a nice house, but it's a coercion and pressure to sell it. I think the Defence League should have its own representative building. If everything goes to that Plague... We do not want what happened in Ukraine to happen. It is not practical to keep all the eggs in one basket. Does the Department of Defense plan to find another representative building in place of Toompea 8 that could be used as the main headquarters of the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U401	Thank you. We hear that the Defence League has a body of elders, a central body that makes these decisions. That's what they decide. It's a public organisation. If it's a matter of money, who has to give the money, then the Department of Defense and the state. If they want to decide, there's a body of elders and a central body. So which one decides?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U402	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! Life has made adjustments to our plans, first and foremost to those packages of national defence development plans that we have spoken here several times. Do you plan to use this realization in relation to previous major decisions? I'd only name two. One is the layout of the unit. For example, institutions serving the headquarters, which are primarily the staff and communication battalion, but also the watch battalion from the national defence point of view, are now away from Tallinn. What about the consolidation of functions, such as the human resources function? Given that we have to do the work of increasing the number of armed forces that will increase the capacity for work, has the idea moved on from reviewing these things as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U404	As far as the location of one or the other unit is concerned, the institution of the Commander of the Defence Forces has, above all, a view of how he sees it best. As regards consolidation of support services, the objective of consolidation of support services was only one: to reduce technical work so that professionals could deal with content. That's the goal. After all, it is not that we want to take away their right to choose staff or to carry out other activities related to its staff, to motivate and promote and everything else. All we're talking about is technical activity. This gives them a greater opportunity to deal with the substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U405	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and request the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U406	Honourable Chairman! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, A significant and fundamental change in the security situation in Europe, including Estonia, has brought the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" much closer to us. We are aware of this and the country is taking decisive steps. Developing our military defence capabilities at an accelerated pace is a reality. A debate on which percentage of GDP would be sufficient is sensible and necessary. But rapid government decisions to fill real power gaps are the right and much more operational way to act in today's fickle security environment. Translated to the percentage language: more than 2.5% of GDP will only confirm this in the coming years. The ongoing process of linking the fleet of the Navy and the Police and Border Guard Board with maritime surveillance systems is a good example that the transformation of existing systems can also produce visible results. In the near future, national defence resource management and the National Defence Investment Centre will also be organized if its centre of gravity receives additional tasks. Investments and the organisation of systems are essential. At the same time, it must be understood that the final ability of our national defence is shaped by man. It is the duty of all of us to value, motivate and maintain people who are both professionals and volunteers who contribute to the national defence of Estonia. The Reform Party recognizes the leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces for their professional commitment in today's situation. Only rapid and coordinated action can accelerate the development of military defence capabilities. The capabilities of the Defence Forces and the achievement of a new quality of armaments, the enhancement of land protection and the planning and realisation of other processes are only so possible. Let us trust the doers! War can only be won if the will of society as a whole is unbreakable. We will see this today in Ukraine. The people's faith in themselves and in their own country, and their full commitment to national defence, are one of the most critical grounds for success in this war, which also breaks and internationally alters the long-standing understanding of the situation and makes the real contribution of the contributing countries visible. People's desire to protect is also a decisive value in Estonia. This value needs to be maintained and strengthened. The number of members of the Defence League and the Women's Home Guard clearly shows that people are looking for an opportunity to contribute. It is important for every member of our society to understand and understand its role. Every thorn counts, and not just in the military defense of the country. The state has a duty to help and to explain to its people various possibilities. At this point, I would like to emphasise the decision taken in due time to create a broad-based approach to national defence. National defence activities have gained broader meaning. Now more action is needed from words. Cross-cutting cooperation in this context creates a new value for the defence capabilities of the Estonian state and society. In today's reality, war will lead to two parallel, crucial goals: defending your country and fighting all resources using aggressor, while protecting your population, especially its most vulnerable part, our elderly, women, children, our families, saving people's lives, providing essential medical care and vital services. Public authorities, local authorities and voluntary organisations are involved. The ability of people to manage themselves also plays a major role here. Population protection has become a priority in broad defence and society has high expectations here. Finally, I assure you that for the Reform Party, Estonia's security has been a priority throughout the ages, and we will certainly stand for this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U407	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U408	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U409	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U410	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! Last spring we were here and we adopted the same strategy, "Estonia 2035," which we are discussing today for the first year. At the time, I was very critical that this strategy as such, including its security policy part, did not respond to the security situation at the time. It doesn't correspond to today's situation. As such, we received a letter with nothing and nothing to say. But, of course, where we saw the mistake, we fixed it right away. We have tabled three amendments, which were unfortunately voted down by the coalition. I am now looking at how these proposals have gone, what has been implemented or are being implemented. Our first amendment was, as we know, that defence costs should be at least 2.6% of GDP; now that we have also dealt thoroughly with all three reinforcement packages during Question Time and later, which are steps in the very right direction, we have recognised them and I recognise them once again from this remote control, then in fact we will have over 3% of defence costs in the country's budget strategy for 2023 to 2026 if we make the mid-earth anti-aircraft decision. Maybe the increase is about 1.3 billion. Of course, even after we carry out these capabilities, it is clear that defence costs can no longer fall to 2%, because we also need to maintain these capabilities. It is clear that they will, in any case, remain in place if we do not do more of the new capacity developments, at 2.6% or 2.5%, in any case, until the end of the decade and in the future. The second amendment, which we have tabled, was also short and consisted of two sentences. I will read them out and see how we have done: "We are creating mine-watering, coastal defence and midland anti-aircraft capabilities, and we are completing the development of armoured maneuvering capabilities (creation of a tank unit), as well as creating near-air defence capabilities in the Defence League. We increase the ability of night-time combat and electronic warfare and apply technically innovative solutions, including drones and unmanned earth vehicles. " Perhaps we have written down these tasks and capabilities, with the desired final goal at least by 2035. What can we say today, where are we? We've come a long way in mine-watering. We're not quite at the end of the line, but we're getting more sea mines with a strengthening package. We're gonna get a couple of launching ships connecting the fleets. The very nature of the entire navy has actually changed because of mine-watering as well as coastal defence capabilities. You can see that people have grown into such a stronger soul when they see that they can really do something about the war. It is also the case with the mid-earth anti-aircraft capability, as the director of the ICC has informed us that if everything goes positive, we will be able to tender already this year and we will remain on the schedule of 2025, which we also referred to the government by the Commission. The completion of the armoured maneuvering capacity is not yet in these packages, but I assume that this third package will not be the last, and the next government at the latest will have to move forward so that it does not stay anywhere [standing]. But this ability is important to us so that we can also make a counterattack. The Ukrainians are working hard now, and they're stuck. There is a very rapid development of the Defence League in its near-air defence capabilities. What is stated in the second package will fully cover both the need for the units we have and the need for those units that are now coming up. Technically innovative solutions come from this, saying in Estonian, for wandering ammo, the ability to fight at night increases. All these things we do, and that's what I'm happy to say. The third proposal, which we have made, is somewhat more problematic: "We create a crisis reserve for police and border guards and provide border guards with the necessary capabilities and preparedness and the legal basis for military protection tasks in border areas. " We may have the most problems with this now, because the border guard still sees itself as a purely police organisation and, in times of crisis and war, they see their role in the way that the Defence League and the Defence Forces should take over their functions in defending the border. But it would be rather difficult to do that if we were talking about some very quick preparations. For example, the simple question: Who will blow up the Narva River Bridge and the railway bridge? There is no one else but the border guard who can actually do it. So we still need to discuss this issue further. One option is what has also been discussed in order to incorporate these border guards in corpore into the Defence League to carry out military tasks, where they would receive military training and, in addition to automatic weapons, other necessary weapons to fulfil their first tasks. We are seeing clear progress here and we are seeing things here that still need to be done in the future. Perhaps after the armoured maneuvering capacity, its main base beam, or tanks, and its short-range beach protection [of up to 30 km], we will probably be faced with an increase in the military defence force in the future. The increase we are doing now is not likely to be our last. After all, we also see that Latvia is not currently showing any kind of identity to abandon purely professional defence forces and significantly increase its military defence forces. If the Latvians do not do so, we will, of course, be forced to do more here. But here's the question. I asked you, Kalle, what are we going to do with this strategy? Should we make improvements here, or should we make some kind of new document in the light of the situation we are in? I did not have much time to deal with other aspects of broad-based national defence here, but it also concerns a number of other areas, which are actually in the same strategy, even the population policy, which, because of war refugees, will be in a new situation. What are we gonna do about all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U411	Thank you. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U412	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, For the Fatherland Party, national defence is certainly one of the most important areas and priority activities, because if we lose our country, all other activities will become largely meaningless. What is happening today in Ukraine, not far from Estonia, has certainly put us in a new situation, a new light. Clearly, defence is multi-layered when we talk about strong defence. There's a bearing axis here, but not only military defence. I fully agree that defence is like the soul on which these machines, people and activities rely. Here we really have an example for Ukraine. But we also have reason to look at our defenses. Our defence engines are definitely the Defence League and the Women's Home Guard. The [membership] of these organisations has grown seriously over the last few weeks, and this naturally makes us happy, but on the other hand, it makes us wonder how we will involve those people who have joined the Defence League, the Women's Home Guard, how we will train them so that there is no situation that I came and what then. It is very sad to hear that there is some sort of disagreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence League or that costs have been reduced, and on the other hand it is said that no, nothing has been reduced. This also shows that we at operational level call it that, however, there is still a [development] resource, even if the strategic level is working. We've taken quite a few good steps to improve our defenses. There's a little bit of different numbers operating here. Indeed, at this point in the debate on the strategic document, perhaps there is no need for much detail. Billion, 1.3 billion for the various packages, which it is as if they were decided, but, in fact, it is obviously too little of 1.3 billion. Our best military experts have said the minimum line runs at 2 and 2.5 billion. We have to make a decision quickly. Every day that we lose in decision-making actually means money [loss] and an additional risk. In this sense, action should be taken quickly and these decisions should be taken so that we can start the process. I would not be very committed, as Leo did, to a very thorough review of the various areas, that what has been done and what needs to be done is that our military experts are competent enough if we provide them with sufficient resources. It is our job to ensure this resource. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U413	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U414	I was talking about multi-layered defense. There is certainly a need to mark the broad range of activities, the protection of the population. We have had quite a bit of bait over the last few decades, here we have a great deal to do, from legislation to very practical action. We cannot overlook illegal migration, all of which is part of multi-layered national defence. We know where the first serious manifestations of the Ukrainian war were. They were not so much in Ukraine, but on the border with Belarus, towards our good neighbours, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. Russia, of course, was behind this. He had a long strategic plan in a place that has now culminated in some way with a very wide-ranging and gruesome aggression in Ukraine. Attention must also be paid to this area. Of course, an information war. We've made some decisions, and I hope we have some decisions coming into this room right now. But this area also needs a very clear strategic solution and action. You can't get here without money. Really, today it was touched once in Question Time, but when we talk about making investments for a whole range of abilities, the exercise courses are the ones that need to be clearly further developed. We have serious shortcomings in the north, in the middle of the Soodla polygon, and in the south, in the Nursipalu. Here too, strong steps should be taken to ensure that all the techniques we acquire can be applied. If we come to a single figure, which may actually be a bearing figure in the 2035 strategy paper, then it is 2% of GDP, our defence costs. The Minister has already said that we are approaching 3%. I think it's time we agreed and moved it to 3, because everything that's going on around us shows that less than 3% of us, I dare say, can't happen in the next decade, unfortunately. So in this I call on all the political groups to agree that this point, this number, will certainly be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U415	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U416	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can draw two important conclusions from the Ukrainian war, among other things. First of all, as a country, we have not been wrong and we have been planning and building our national defence for decades according to the correct risk assessment and the right logic. Secondly, we can see that Russia's decisions do not make sense to look for clear logic, as they may have been made on the basis of faulty information and decision-making processes in one way or another. Russia is ready to shed more blood from its own people to achieve dictatorial ambitions than we might have imagined. This knowledge tells us that more needs to be invested in Estonian national defence, certainly in financial terms. We also need total protection, where, alongside the defence forces and allies, each person has a clear and understandable role to play in ensuring national security. The Social Democrats support the Government's desire to increase our ammunition reserves and raise hundreds of millions of euros in weapons. However, I must say that the key tasks are unfortunately poorly defined in this plan. Firstly, the government only makes one-off investments in weapons. Increasing land protection and new weapons systems require an increase in the number of workers. We need a long-term agreement to increase national defence costs, and this on the increase in fixed costs, so that new tasks do not come at the expense of today's activities and capabilities. Secondly, there is a missing part of all plans concerning the actives. I say the old truth again: the gun doesn't fight, the man does. The Estonian state is protected by a person. The choice of Estonian national defence strategy, capacity development, landscape positions is made by a person, primarily an active soldier in the Defence Forces or the Defence League. For the government, however, investment remains only an investment in concrete and metal, not in people. While defending the state was a profession so far, from 2020 new active troops will no longer be subject to a special pension scheme, so there will be no such profession either. This means that if an officer or officer-in-chief acquires sufficient competence with public money and as a result of his professional experience, he will simply be bought in the private sector. However, we are losing the knowledge and experience essential for national defence, which will gather in exercises and missions over decades. The promise that something else will replace special pensions has not been fulfilled. At the time, there was talk of an occupational retirement pension, but this too has not been done. Yes, the motivation of the Defence Forces and the Defence League to make an effort for the country is immense. But why do we have to stick together on the account of these family fathers and mothers? Why do we even have to save on people? Wide-spread defence, where every person contributes, also means high motivation to do so. This is where we come to two fundamental or even fundamental problems. The Ministry of Defence does not increase the willingness of volunteers to defend themselves, but rather may cut it. Firstly, the Defence Union budget was already reduced by 5%, i.e. EUR 5.49 million. This year it is planned to reduce the budget by 2%. The Minister of Defence says it has not been done yet. Yeah, it's not done. But an order has been given. I even know what the answer to this order is: it is simply not possible to comply with it. This arrangement would require either the closure of youth organisations or a substantial reduction in exercises, but this cannot be done. Two thirds of the Defence Union budget is made up of wage costs. At the same time, the government has decided to increase the capabilities of the Defence League by 10,000 fighters. Prices and expenses, however, have grown exponentially in the Defence League over the last few years, as has everyone else. Maybe in all this math, things are really messed up. We'll increase the cost, but we'll take the money the other way around. Similarly, the decision-making processes of the Defence League are being pursued by the Ministry of Defence, both in terms of staff, assets and budget planning. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very dangerous road. The main glue holding the volunteers of the Defence League together is not a weapon and gunpowder, but an opportunity for people to shape their homeland together. If we cut off the opportunity for volunteers to plan and take responsibility for the development of the Defence League, we will no longer have this Defence League and, in this form, the strong expression of the will to protect people. Free will is a powerful weapon, but only if you know how to use it. Ladies and gentlemen, The state of Estonia continues to be protected and will continue to be so. However, a significantly better result will be achieved if we invest in people and their wages alongside weapons and keep all kinds of world-view cutting dogs and mammoth management fetishes away from national defence. For Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U417	I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party Enn Eesmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U418	Thank you very much. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U419	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U420	Honourable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing the implementation of the long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." This is absolutely right and logical, because this is a process and we are doing it for the first time in this big hall. In today's difficult situation in terms of security, what is planned for tomorrow, or even the day after tomorrow, is already needed today. It is now clear to everyone that President Lennart Meri has formulated the phrase "Never again alone. " Everyone certainly agrees that more than a minimum must be done to ensure security at the level of the individual as well as at the level of society as a whole and at national level. However, different ideas are about how and at what cost to achieve all this safe welfare. When we deal narrowly with national security, some consider it important that we strengthen our contribution in this area, while others are still questioning even today and asking whether we are sure to the end that we can be threatened by threats from the East. In their opinion, money for national defence could and should be used elsewhere. The Riigikogu is the most suitable place in Estonia for this kind of discussion and debate. We have both the coalition and the opposition represented here. I am pleased to note that at the meetings of the Committee on National Defence, we will address all issues in depth, together with experts, and that everyone will have the opportunity to express their opinions and to justify them. Sometimes we vote, but that's not normal. We are working and taking decisions on a cross-party basis, which is the best way to end the parliamentary debate. So, representing my political party, I can address you as a representative of the National Defence Commission, both in substance and in form. I would remind you that our Commission pointed out the need to reduce national defence capacity gaps already in the last year, before the development strategy was adopted, to increase the share of defence costs in GDP and to increase the efficiency of anti-aircraft capabilities, we sent a letter to the Government of the Republic in November last year. In January of this year, it was decided that Estonia would exceptionally increase its spending on a wide range of national defence by 380 million euros in the coming years in order to be able to act faster against both military and hybrid threats. Last month, a fundamental decision was taken to strengthen national defence further, allowing for 476 million, and the capacity of society to cope in crisis situations was allocated EUR 86 million, a large part of which goes to the protection of the population and to the strengthening of the border. Based on Ukrainian war lessons and based on additional funding, capacity development and defence action plans will be reviewed in cooperation with NATO allies. In doing so, effective civil protection in the military will be effective in increasing anti-aircraft and indirect fire performance. We are facing a number of dangerous crises at the same time. Leaders, including representatives of the people in the Riigikogu, have access to data that is inaccessible to ordinary people. As a country and nation, we have achieved the objective set by President Meri, which means that we belong to NATO and the European Union. Estonia is represented by our own professional experts on the NATO leadership. Some members of the Riigikogu are concentrated in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Several Riigikogu committees deal with security and defence issues. We are cooperating on all sides, both at Baltic, Nordic and European Union and global level. NB8 The Nordic-Baltic Defence Cooperation Framework includes dialogues at the level of Defence Ministers, Policy Directors and Commanders of the Defence Forces. Of course, cooperation can be enhanced. Further developments include increasing state science, finding common capacity development projects, improving the capabilities of military cooperation, as well as cyber defence, where Estonia is considered to be a serious player. The fundamentally changed situation is also changing the attitude of the Swedish and Finnish people towards the possibility of joining NATO. The results of a recent survey clearly indicate that the scepticism of the Finns towards NATO has decreased considerably. More than 60% of the population already envisages Finland as a NATO member country today. This is a major and important change, because Finns have been making a huge profit from good relations with the Soviet Union and Russia for decades. How they managed to do that would like to ask President Kekkonen and his line of action. There are still many in Northern Finland, especially, who, for pragmatic reasons, do not want to hear about harsh sanctions against Russia. The situation is roughly the same in Sweden. Yet, together with the Finns, they have developed a common defence plan, carried out joint exercises to protect both Öland and Åland. Naturally, the leaders of both countries stress that all defence decisions are taken independently, freely and independently of the major countries. Both nations take into account the worst opportunities, but professionals are the primary concern. The leaders of international life are working day after day to end the Ukrainian tragedy. Fortunately, the voice of Estonia and the other Baltic nations also sounds in coordination with almost all NATO Member States. This has always been the case with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. We won't be alone for a long time, because we can't stand against a big opponent alone, even if we spent 12.3% on defence instead of 2.3%. According to the German Foreign Minister, we have no choice but to defend common rules, even if it has an expensive economic price. Germany is well aware of what this has meant for them. Today, too, we all understand that Estonia must develop its national security and allocate money for it. The final decision to allocate money in national budgets will be made by the Riigikogu, you and I, where politicians in both government and opposition defend their interests and objectives. This will provide an opportunity for a multi-faceted analysis of the problem. In addition to money, however, the understanding of the meaning of security and national defence is enhanced by the attitude of the people. It is no coincidence that hundreds of men, as well as women, are joining the defence organisations operating in Estonia right now, who are also ready to actively defend their country and their people. Only yesterday in our committee, together with the Commander of the Defence Forces and representatives of the Ministry of Defence, were we discussing topical issues at all times. We made plans and calculations of resources, including financial aspects. Of course, we are not talking about this in public. There is no doubt that the current highly electrified state of defence gives us all determination to contribute even more than today to this work, the results of which will not be seen in one year, even in a few years' time. That's why it's really urgent. It is a good thing that more or less everyone understands it in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U421	Thank you. The political groups have no more wish to speak, all the political groups have spoken. Now the Minister of Defence has come to wish to make a speech in the round of negotiations, and that is what our law permits. So I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti. You have five minutes, and you can have three more minutes of your wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U422	I'll try to make it in five minutes, if I can't, I'll ask for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U423	You're watching the rolling, aren't you? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U424	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk here today about the Defence League and its nature. I'm reminding you, under the law of the Defence League, a little bit about what the Defence League is. "The Defence League is a voluntary, militaryly organized, weapons-governing national defence organisation operating military exercises in the Ministry of Defence. " This is § 2 of the Defence League Act. I refer to another section, that is "Management of the Defence League," § 11 of the Defence League Act: "The Defence League is led by the Chief of the Defence League, who is directly subordinate to the Commander of the Defence Forces. " These are the two basics that I wanted to highlight. We sometimes forget who's running the Defence League and how. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I'm trying to pass on the air. I would like to thank all the men and women who have built up national defence in this 30 year period. After 24 February, I have been asked very often in foreign media or by colleagues whether you feel fear in Estonia. My answer has been that no, we don't feel fear. We know, 50 years under occupation, we knew who our eastern neighbour was, and for 30 years we have been working to build our Defence Forces, [strengthening] our national defence by voluntary means. If one day our eastern neighbour doesn't know what it is that decides to attack us, then we're ready for it. In my opinion, this is our greatest value, our Estonia's value, we have worked for it, we continue to work for it every day. And so that we do not forget that these words, which are released either from newspaper columns or from this remote control, can cause a great deal of flicker between us at national level and the great applause behind the eastern border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U425	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your good time. I'm closing the negotiations. As is our rule, at the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U426	We will move to the fifth item: First reading of draft 524 of the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (public organisation of the use of aviation and airspace for defence purposes). I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of Defence Minister Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U427	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The amendment to the Aviation Act aims to regulate national aviation requirements in order to ensure better aviation safety, aviation security and transparency of the aviation activities of public authorities. Government agencies will also be able to carry out their tasks, including monitoring, with unmanned aircraft. So what does this have to do with anything? In particular, the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police Department, the Rescue Board and the Tax and Customs Board are granted the right to restrict the operation of unmanned aircraft in a specific area, i.e. the right to establish temporary geographical areas. I stress: temporary geographical areas. Second, aircraft of the Defence League and the Foreign Intelligence Service are considered to be aircraft of defence aviation. This will allow for more flexibility in the implementation of the tasks. As a third major amendment, the law introduces so-called drone control measures, which may be applied to unmanned civil aircraft in the course of public oversight. Next, [Airship] Traffic Services AS will be assigned national defence tasks. The regulation of the use of airspace for defence purposes assigns national defence tasks to Air Traffic Services AS as the most important change: to ensure the provision of air traffic services, communication, navigation and surveillance services and air navigation services. This means that Air Traffic Services AS must assign some jobs to national defence posts. This is necessary to help the Defence Forces or the Police and Border Guard Board during the crisis, and is necessary to ensure that civil aviation traffic can be fully recovered as soon as the threat to the state is over. The following final objective: The owners or holders of the open range and the shooting site must forward the coordinates of the shooting range to the Transport Board before the launch of the shooting range or site to ensure the safety of low-flying aircraft. In an open shooting range and location where no measures are in place that prevent the weapon from being blown up when fired from the weapon, the danger zone may be up to 4500 metres, depending on which weapon is fired. It is therefore important that pilots and remote pilots know where such shooting ranges and locations are and can take this into account when choosing route and flight altitude. If this circle already exists, the coordinates of the centre of the shooting area, the height of the danger zone, the length of the diagonal of the shooting area, as in the case of a new shooting range or location, must also be provided to the Transport Board within the specified time limit. That is the aim of this very good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U428	Thank you, Minister, for your report. There are questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U429	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad you got to the Riigikogu today, you didn't get to the Riigikogu last Wednesday, we were expecting you, but you didn't make it, not with this bill. But now I'm asking. Was there a debate on this aviation issue with the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Is it just military aviation, or is there some kind of innovation in civil aviation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U430	Thank you. Good Aivar! I have to make it clear that I was expecting a chance last Wednesday. Well, I wasn't on the agenda on Wednesday, so I came on Thursday. On Thursday, I waited solemnly for hours to come before you, but unfortunately this opportunity did not arise. I was very sad about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U431	I'm interrupting for a moment, Minister, because I wasn't here last Thursday. Were you not allowed here in the government box, did someone interfere with this coming, or do you think you couldn't come to the Riigikogu chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U432	I was waiting for my sequel in the government room.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U433	Okay, okay. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U434	It's... [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U435	May I have your attention, please? [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U436	Answer the question. Of course, all drafts will be coordinated with all ministries. This bill has also been agreed with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U437	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U438	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! We're pretty hard on drones in this world. As I understand it, the point of this bill is to organize these national squadrons, these national drones can move in zones and... Can you tell me how big this national squadron could be, the Rescue Board, the Environmental Board, the kapo, foreign intelligence, the Defence Forces, the Defence League, the prisons, the MTA, how big could this national squadron or squadrons be? Around.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U439	After all, these are really drones. I do owe this answer today, whether and how many drones there are in particular in the various agencies. If you're seriously interested, I'll ask my colleagues to find out and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U440	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U441	Thank you. Here, § 6 states where some drones can fly on site. It is referred to here that in the place referred to in § 2 (1), the drones of the Environmental Board, Defence Forces, PBA, Defence Police and Prison, § 3 (1) [at the site mentioned], the Defence Forces, PBA, Defence Police, Tax and Customs Board, and § 4 are only three of them, but these paragraphs cannot be found. Why don't you help where they are, where the prison drones can fly and where the MTA drones are? These are those who have the opportunity to move in a specific area. But I can't find those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U442	I think the most important thing is that they carry out national tasks according to what their needs are. Hardly that this paragraph is the most important, it is important that they are given the legal basis to carry out this task. This bill contains this legal basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U443	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U444	Thank you. I may be wrong, but still, on the previous point, I did not want to waste this question. Last Wednesday, you must have had the same report that was at the previous point, not at that point, you just weren't here. But I'm asking... [[Kalle Laane is trying to clarify.]] Thursday...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U445	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U446	Yeah. But I specify: "Limiting the use of Estonian airspace," § 41 (1). It says here that it will establish the Government of the Republic by its order. I didn't see the government order on the papers. We usually have these arrangements on the bill. Are they coming to this hall before the second reading or where they might be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U447	First of all, I still specify that on Thursday I had to give an overview of the security situation until 2035 and the results. Secondly, among my materials, there are all the supporting documents. I understand that the Commission leader showed and helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U448	Minister, thank you. No further questions. It is now a great pleasure to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Economic Commission Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U449	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners and viewers! As the Minister of Defence has already presented in detail, this is a draft that organises the use of national airspace for defence purposes. Since this presentation was beautifully thorough, I will limit myself to what we discussed in the Commission. The question was whether the new organisation would make the operation easier and whether the Air Traffic Services Company would expect national defence tasks or, rather, whether it could handle them. The Department of Defense confirmed that cooperation is ongoing, that there is readiness. If there is a need to deal with such tasks, there is also a willingness to deal with them well. In addition, if there are members of the armed forces, they will not be mobilised, so the company will manage well. There was also a question of why such regulation is needed, as it provides. In particular, it is precisely the question that if an unmanned aircraft is in the future to enter a no-fly area or a temporary no-fly area, such vehicles can be brought to the ground. Right. The responsibility is also due. The procedural decisions were as follows, made at the meeting of the Commission on 15 February: it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda on 16 March, by consensus, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the opinion be sought from the Committee on National Defence. That's what I can refer to. In the meantime, it's been a while. On 14 March, we decided to postpone [reading] the draft and to put it on the plenary agenda on 24th or last Thursday. It also solves the mystery of Aivar Koka, which day it was supposed to be, and which day the minister was supposed to be here. The documents show that on Thursday, and the minister waited bravely, but did not get hit. I have already mentioned that we have also asked the Committee on National Defence for an opinion because it concerns the defence sector. The National Defence Committee found that the objectives are reasonable, cooperation is necessary. These regulations are necessary to ensure national security and aviation safety. The National Defence Committee gave us an opinion where they unanimously supported this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U450	Thank you, Chairman of the Commission. Any questions? No, it's not. Now, representatives of all political groups, as always, is there a desire to open negotiations? Please! You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 21 April this year. First reading of Bill 524 is complete. We have finished processing the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U451	Moving to item 6: First reading of the draft law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Suti.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U452	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riigikogu! Today, I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act by number 531. The Government of the Republic approved this draft at its meeting on 17 February. The aim of the draft is to update cybersecurity requirements in information systems relevant to the functioning of society, including those used by the public sector. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The draft brings Estonian law into line with two regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. In view of the Russian war in Ukraine and the cyber attacks carried out as part of it, there is already a need to implement additional security measures to improve cyber defence preparedness and, above all, to prevent cyber incidents, to resolve cyber crises or to mitigate the effects of cyber crises. The changes to the draft are in line with the government's programme of action, according to which Estonia is a cyber-protected state and in close cooperation with allies. The amendments to the draft can be summarised in three thematic blocks. Firstly, the establishment of a mandate standard for the establishment of new information security requirements and Estonian information security standard. Secondly, the establishment of a mandate rule to participate in the European Union network of cybersecurity competence centres. Thirdly, the creation of a mandate rule to specify the organisation of the certification of cyber security in the European Union in Estonian law. On the first issue, a mandate rule is needed to enable the government to ensure the modernity and systemicity of cyber security of the network and information systems. This will be done through the clarification of general cyber security requirements, the definition of specific requirements and the introduction of a new information security standard. The draft also improves the scope of the Cyber Security Act in the public sector and extends its scope to new areas. This is necessary to ensure an adequate level of cyber security, both in the public sector and in vital and essential services. The second issue concerns the European [Parliament] and Council Regulation (EU) 2021/887 establishing a network of competence centres for the cybersecurity industry, technology and research. The Network of Centres of Excellence is responsible for encouraging the development of a common cybersecurity field among the Member States of the European Union. As a result of the draft and the minister's decree supporting it, the National Information System Authority will carry out the tasks of the Estonian Coordination Unit in the field of cyber security. The third issue concerns Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the certification of ICT services, products and processes in the field of cyber security. As a result of the draft, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will carry out the tasks of the National Cyber Security Certification Authority. Although the wording of this task may give the impression that the Agency itself carries out certifications, that is not the case. On the contrary, the Agency supports an accreditation body, supervises the activities of conformity assessment bodies, resolves complaints and is also an external judge. The draft does not entail the need for additional resources and any additional future needs will be discussed during the state budget negotiations. According to the draft law, the law will enter into force in general, with the exception of two points: firstly, amendments to the Public Information Act, which will enter into force on 1 January of the following year, and secondly, amendments relating to the Estonian National Broadcasting, which will enter into force on 1 January of 2027. Thank you for listening. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U453	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U454	Good manager! Good to see you, Minister. We were looking forward to seeing you and the other ministers here late Wednesday night. But who wasn't? You weren't there. All the others we've been able to ask if they were asleep or what they were doing. My colleague Michal says that wartime, we're the fifth column here, and we're stopping the job, but we were waiting for you, but you didn't come. How come, in wartime, you don't show up here with such an important bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U455	Thank you for your question. As I replied in my written message, it was clear that the agenda had changed so much and so much that it was simply no longer on the agenda. We consulted the group, and that is the decision we reached. Today I am here before you, defending the bill and answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U456	Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U457	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that you were the one who provided for this not to be on the agenda. I'd like to ask if you're a psychic. I remind you, as a minister of the Reform Party, I have drawn the attention of a minister to this, that there is no rehearsal of psychics in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I would really like to know what led you to find it or how you saw it coming, that it would not be on the agenda that day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U458	Thank you. There is no possibility that a member of the Riigikogu will ask the Minister for a procedural question. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U459	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You said... It's procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U460	It's procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U461	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U462	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U463	Yeah. You said you consulted the group and then [decided] not to come. But here several colleagues said, for example, Akkermann said that he looked at too few people in the hall, and he did not come for this. I remember that Mart Võrguship, the leader of the faction, was very much in demand here. What time was that counseling? You told me at 10:00 what it was, 21:00, I think, if I remember correctly, you're not coming here. But when was this coordination with the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U464	Dear Peeter Ernits! You have the same answer as Kert Kingo. The law does not give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask procedural questions from the Minister. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U465	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a question for you, a procedural question. In general, it is common practice that there is no lying in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. At least that's what I've been told. But today, we have, in principle, received two kinds of information about this so-called ministerial job. First of all, a good colleague, Kristen Michal, said that ministers and their party ambassadors did not come because there is a fifth column in this Parliament. Now Minister Andres Sutt will come here on the remote and say that he just looked at the time, I don't think it makes any sense to come. I'd like to know from you if you'll find out, a good [Chairman], which one is lying, either Kristen Michal, who's talking about column five, or Minister Sutt, who says that it was late and it was necessary to go to bed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U466	Thank you. This is where the elected representative of the highest power, the XIV Riigikogu, delivers and works. Many ministers last week and I understand that the members of the Riigikogu could not come to the Riigikogu Chair. We had a pretty serious discussion on procedural issues on Monday. I promised I'd call a body of elders. It has been called tomorrow morning to discuss this issue, for which reason, suddenly, very many members of the government could not come here at any time. I don't think that's a good tone. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U467	Thank you. Andres, don't you ever tell the Riigikogu that you talked to the group. Then there would be no point in coming here, then this report could also be made in the group. There is still the Riigikogu and the Minister must always come before the Riigikogu; there is no dispute about this. But I ask you about § 1 of the Act: "4) the port service provider, who is the managing body of the port within the meaning of the Port Act..."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U468	Good questioner, I'm sorry. Please speak more on the microphone, then the voice will be stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U469	Thank you. I ask that the amendment to § 1 (4) why such an amendment has been introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U470	Yeah, let's see. Why are such changes necessary? A very simple reason. Let's see what cyber attacks were made before the war in Ukraine. Any attacks on a critical service provider or infrastructure have a major impact on the functioning of the whole segment or business area. I think it is very clear to everyone that preventing cyber incidents is much cheaper than after eliminating their consequences. So investments in cyber security to ensure that companies and institutions are also protected from cyber security are important. There is certainly one less legal nuance here. This amendment brings the Cyber Security Act into line with the Port Act so that there is no different interpretation of the two laws. But I think cybersecurity as an investment is certainly the most important and that is why this law is also very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U471	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U472	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a very big question about this cyber security law, because this amendment will also apply to the political party represented in the Riigikogu. The party as such is an abstract concept and the party is made up of specific people. You're probably okay with that, aren't you? But the question is that § 1 (2) of the Law states that this Act does not apply to the processing of state secrets. I have a question in the sense of how we distinguish between those who deal with state secrets in a political party. Do we classify them separately? With national secrecy, we will face the same problems, whether or not we want to, because there are similar problems in ELAK, for example. Where is this logical explanation for this question, if one law, one point of the law allows it, but the other rule out it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U473	I think it is wrong to read these two points of law together in this form. After all, the party is a legal person, and I think that no party wants to be the victim of cyber attacks and particularly successful cyber attacks. It is regulated in such a way that the processing of state secrets and classified foreign information is specified in separate laws. I don't think there's any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U474	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U475	Good manager! Good minister! Here, the impact of this law, that the scope is small, the frequency is low, the risk of undesirable effects is low. It repeats like mantra all over the place. It follows that why these regulations need to be implemented. At the same time, it's very fickle, for example, you've pointed out here that the penalty is 100,000, but then suddenly you took it to 200,000. For example, Eesti Energia complains about why it is necessary to keep these documents for seven years if there could be three. I can't get all those nuances here... Why, on the one hand, such a harsh approach and, on the other hand, a quick compromise if the impact of this draft or of these two regulations is, as a rule, such as, I repeat, the size is small, the frequency is low, the risk of undesirable effects is low?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U476	After all, it is a very common part of normal practice to ask for comments on the draft, to be given by different parties, and then the drafters will assess whether the proposals contained in these comments overlap with the objective of the draft law. If it is possible to take them into account, they are reasonable, then it must be done. If there is a desire to amend the law or the draft law, this can always be done in the Commission between the first reading and the second reading. I am saying the same thing here, which I have already mentioned many times, that the importance of cyber security has increased a great deal in recent years, because the whole cyber landscape has become much more hostile, there have been very many successful cyber attacks. As life has shown, stronger cyber capabilities ultimately prevent much more costs, it is like buying an insurance policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U477	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U478	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I agree with what you just said in your previous response that security and cybersecurity are very important. When you answered my question, you said the same thing about making commitments in the port. But I read that it is quite the opposite: reducing the number of port service providers that are treated as service providers under the point being changed. That's why I asked you. Currently, it is determined that there must be a ship of 500 gross tonnage or more, and the number of passengers has disappeared altogether. It had previously been stated that more than 250 passengers and that the gross tonnage could also be less than 500. Why are some of the ports, I think, are most of course inland ports out of this security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U479	Well, as I said, one of the reasons was for the harmonisation of the texts of the two laws, so that there are no contradictions, would be a uniform approach. The second answer, however, is that my recommendation to any company is no matter how big or small it is, maybe it does not apply the same principles and standards of cyber security in its management and risk management. This is not some kind of anti-business bill; it is quite clearly reinforcing the beggarness of our business sector. That is why it is also very important that this draft be dealt with quickly in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U480	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U481	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I see that this is a law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, and it organises the legal space governing the security of service providers and public sector network and information systems. Was it planned, for example, to review e-voting systems during the opening of this cybersecurity law and assess their cybersecurity or is it not being dealt with at all, or is it planned to do so in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U482	Thank you. The security of the electoral system and the e-choice system remains a priority. It has not been changed by anyone, nor will it be made lighter by this law. On the contrary, life has shown that cybersecurity is, in every area, a very simplified hygiene factor that we all have to follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U483	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U484	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I come to the application of this law. You said that the Cyber Security Act applies to the party represented in the Riigikogu. But the Riigikogu also has political party members who are exposed to state secrets. There is still a contradiction in the context of this law. This second paragraph does not allow it to be applied to people who are exposed to state secrets, they are members of a political party that is members of the Riigikogu. Does this law preclude the application of cyber security [the law] to these people, or does it extend to members of the Riigikogu who are exposed to state secrets?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U485	According to the section on the bill, it certainly doesn't extend. In the sense that the law applies, as stated in the section, to the processing of state secrets and classified foreign information and to the maintenance of systems for the processing of such information, so that these systems and processing are equally cyber secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U486	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U487	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'll take it from where Kalle Grünthal started. The Riigikogu has also formed new associations during its composition, and there are people who have become the basis for these furnaces. There are two of them now, one of whom I think wanted to become a member of the National Defence Commission, but could not pass the NATO security test. Everyone before the election comes to a clarification, he says he's got a new world view or whatever, but he's already come into contact with things. Shouldn't we still be dealing with the members of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu and also people with a so-called free mandate? The second question is this. I'm looking at who's involved, who's the interest groups. It's kind of nice. Who proposed that only such a list be discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U488	Thank you. I'll start with this inclusion table, as it says. For example, the Cities and Municipalities Association did not respond within the deadline. The Centre for Standardisation and Accreditation did not respond in the same way. Everyone has the opportunity to comment, involvement has taken place, and it is always possible to submit further proposals through Riigikogu ambassadors. Similarly, the Commission can involve stakeholders. Now, that first question. If I understand correctly, this concerns the holders of the state secret permit, who are also members of the Riigikogu. It's governed by a separate law. If the Riigikogu feels that something needs to be changed, the Riigikogu has this right by all means. This bill does not deal with this corner of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U489	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U490	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you answered my previous question, you mentioned that e-voting is a priority. But I have a question. Cybersecurity should, in itself, be a priority 1 but, quite recently, from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has a large amount of data, lost all data, went to the wrong people's possession. There was also a problem at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with computer systems and databases when they were attacked. Now, if you feel the same way about e-voting, as is the case with ministries' databases and computer networks, explain to me how we can be sure of this. Are there really not plans to re-examine these potential bottlenecks and map them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U491	Thank you. It is precisely these issues that this bill deals with. For example, when we are talking about the provision of a mandate standard for establishing a cyber security standard, the State Information System Agency deals with cyber security 24 hours a day, seven days a week and 365 days a year. Cybersecurity is my priority. It's a government priority. This year's budget for cyber security was set at 30 million, which had not been put there in the past. I think there will also be [money] in the supplementary budget. As has been said repeatedly, the security of elections, including cyber security, is very important. A great deal of energy was contributed to this when the local elections were held last autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U492	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U493	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. However, I am interested in what this verification of cyber security, or whatever enlargement, means for the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, in detail. Does this mean ensuring the security of their e-mails personally, ensuring the security of the political list, ensuring the security of the party's Facebook page and so on and so forth? I'm not gonna count one by one, you know what I mean. It would be good if you specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U494	Thank you. This is exactly what it means that the information systems of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu are cyber-security. I do not think that any of us would like, for example, our e-mail exchange to fall into the hands of someone other than those for whom it is intended, or that the party's website will be taken off and so on. Awareness, advice and the security of the information systems used by the party are precisely that scope, including that risk management is good to help. It's, I think, very important. We have seen different elections, where cyber activity has also been used in other countries. So it is purely in the interests of the political parties of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U495	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U496	Thank you! It is good to tell you now that we are dissecting national broadcasting here, because otherwise it always goes to the Committee on Culture, it goes to the hey-hey and it doesn't go where it wants to go. Estonian national broadcasting should be resource-critical. Quite a number of times, all these childish acts have been allowed in. The last thing I remember is that Russia started some kind of anti-missile operation here in the Baltic Sea. They said he got off everywhere, but he didn't. When journalists get a job, they can write from one source. But I have another question right now. Is it possible to identify the age of a person on the long road in Estonia? Have Estonian banks made a cooperation agreement with Google and Youtube to provide information on how old is their client?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U497	Everything that concerns personal data is regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. Banks and all other companies must comply with this law. With regard to the content creation of the ERR, it is certainly not cybersecurity law that affects or affects this content creation in any way. However, as the Ukrainian war has shown, it is very important that our people in the country are properly informed about what is happening, and that these systems and communication networks also operate and stand up. This is important for cyber security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U498	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U499	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still picking. Does this security of correspondence in the case of members of the Riigikogu also mean that if the press succeeds in obtaining or leaking to the press the correspondence of a member of the Riigikogu by the Defence Police or probably the Prosecutor's Office in order to use it to discredit him or initiate legal procedures against him, it will also be covered by the requirement to ensure cyber security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U500	The requirement to ensure cyber security in the sense of this law applies, in particular, in such a way that the information systems of the subjects to whom it applies are as secure as possible. These examples, which you have given us, of where the press gets their data, I think they can comment on their own. It is clear that the law applies to everyone, it is not possible to access the email address of any individual, party or member of the Riigikogu without breaking the law. There's no way in hell there's a double understanding here, I guess. Privacy is important, people themselves have their own data owners. No one of us wants our correspondence or other data to get anywhere as a result of somebody's malicious act. This is what cybersecurity protects us from.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U501	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U502	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The coordination table is quite concise and well written. Could you highlight some of the most important substantive remarks made by the partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U503	Yeah. For example, the ITL, the Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications, proposed to exclude a substantial extension of the concept of service provider from the draft. The drafters of this proposal also agreed and this proposal has been taken into account. The Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu also had a number of comments which were taken into account. They're all beautifully written. In those places where it was reasonable to take into account, proposals have been taken into account, for example, one of the proposals of Eesti Energia. There weren't many, but they were all considered. There was also a round table before, where this law was introduced. So the process of involvement was thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U504	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Could you name the authority that will supervise the political parties? If this is one agency, will the data received be shared with another authority and what is the name of that authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U506	No political party will be supervised by this law in this key, as you ask, will be carried out. As I have said many times, it is in the interest of each party, too, of companies and organisations to ensure that the systems are as well protected as possible against cyber attacks. This is exactly what this bill serves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U507	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U508	Thank you. Good waitress! The President-in-Office also! You answered Mart Helme's question, but it got a little messy, and I'm gonna ask you a question. Here it is that [applies] to the political party represented in the Riigikogu as a legal person, it must comply with certain requirements under this law in order to ensure cybersecurity, cyber security applied to itself. But does this principle of cyber security protect the party represented in the Riigikogu and its members from e-mailing, for example, from monitoring the kapo? If, for example, the kapo gets some data, then the data's leaked, right? Has the party represented in the Riigikogu broken any requirements or has it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U509	Thank you. For example, compliance with the requirements of this law in the case of systems is ensured by the State Information System Authority. Other legislation regulating Kapo's activities and kapo's operational competence, this legislation does not do so in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U510	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U511	Thank you. In fact, the entire content of this bill, especially as regards the political parties of the Riigikogu, remains very, very confusing. After all, the party is made up of members. Our party has over 10,000 members. Basically, according to this law, we should guarantee this kind of cyber security for each of our members' e-mails[for exchange], and do not know what all kinds of electronic communication and other means. If any of them gets broken into somewhere, the party has to be responsible. Or what's it like? It's getting kind of messy. Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U512	Thank you. This bill certainly does not impose any obligation on any political party to ensure the cyber security of its members' personal e-mail addresses or mailboxes. I do think it is very good that members of political parties and people in general are cyber-conscious, because successful cyber-attacks always start with a person who has pressed the wrong link and thus made his computer and systems vulnerable. The first line of defense is always the most important. Which measures to choose and how the party raises cyber awareness among its members, for example, is, of course, the choice of each party itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U513	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U514	Thank you. I'm still coming back to meeting these requirements. I read here that, according to the bill, it is possible to impose financial penalties on a legal person, or political party, for non-compliance with the requirements laid down in the cybersecurity regulation. It shall be monitored and monitored by the TTJA, which shall assess whether these requirements have been met or not. There is also the possibility that TTJA will decide that a party can be fined up to EUR 20000. How are these standards? Are they very strict? Or is there a possibility that the discretion given to TTJA could simply harm a single party, that if it is to be harmed financially, it will simply be imposed on a relatively arbitrary basis, EUR 20000?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U515	Thank you. I think that the first task for each agency is to advise the subject or the person he supervises. Punishment is never a goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U516	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U517	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andres! I have a question about § 1 (6). This is the list to which the service provider is subject. Here are, for example, local government units, public authorities in a municipality or district, institutions managed by a municipality or district authority. It's going out in quite a detail. But only political parties represented in the Riigikogu are here. We have registered parties in the country that are not in the Riigikogu. Why is this distinction here, when it has already gone this far in terms of the application of this so-called rule?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U518	One reason for this distinction is that there is certainly greater interest in the political parties represented in the Riigikogu in the various cyber factions that operate across the borders of the law. The parties represented in the Riigikogu also have a greater ability to manage cybersecurity risks. This does not mean that parties that are not represented in the Riigikogu should not pay attention to cyber hygiene. As I said before, cyber hygiene is important for every person, every company, big or small.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U519	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U520	Thank you. "This Act applies to a service provider' • there is a long list of all kinds of institutions, legal persons and others. But what's getting to me is that there are no ministries here, no government, and a whole bunch of other entities of every kind. Why are they exempted? Why isn't the government or your ministry, or whoever's responsible, and who's not gonna have to pay the fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U521	Thank you. Of course, these requirements also extend to ministries. If we take the same cyber security, network and information system security requirements and information security standard, this will, of course, also apply to the government, ministries and agencies, because the Ministry is a government agency. That's right, they're covered. That is a brief answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U522	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U523	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm still asking about the parties. So where does it go to the level? Does it go to the real grassroots level, including the local party department? Where does this limit run in the case of political parties, where must this security be guaranteed or what is required?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U524	As I have already answered this question several times, it is in the interest of each party that your information systems and risk management are as secure as possible. No one is going to go to the individual or to the real grassroots level, but this risk is usually the highest, as I have said many times, grassroots level. If a person clicks on a link that he should not actually press, or becomes a victim of a fishing letter, or whatever, then the perpetrators will be able to access information systems. That's not what any of us want. This bill serves the purpose of defending, not punishing or harassing in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U525	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. To present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Toomas Järveoja, member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U526	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, The Government of the Republic initiated this draft at its meeting on 21 February this year. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before its first reading at its meeting on 14 March this year, where Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Raul Rikk, Head of State Cyber Security, and Oliver Grauberg and Raavo Palu, Legal Advisers of the National Cyber Security Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, participated as the initiator of the draft. In this debate and the Minister's presentation, everything that is the content of this draft was very well mentioned. I am going to the Commission's debate. In the Commission, as here, the issue of political parties and the public sector raised questions. Leo Kunnas, for example, asked about § 1 (6): what does it mean that what is stated about the service provider also applies to the party represented in the Riigikogu? What does this have to do with these parties and what do they have to do? Shouldn't this be about all the registered parties registered under the party law and not just the parties represented in the Riigikogu? Andres Sutt replied that this law does not prevent those principles from being applied to anyone who is not obliged to do so. Cyber awareness must rise considerably throughout society. The principles that are in this draft are useful for others to follow. Oliver Grauberg stated that the party must implement Estonian information security standards. The parties represented in the Riigikogu are currently mentioned for the reason that the purpose of the scope is to define the governance of the state and the functioning of the public sector. The political parties represented in the Riigikogu are directly involved in shaping state policy and government. Political parties not represented in the Riigikogu do not play such a role. The parties represented in the Riigikogu are also provided with additional resources to organise the organisation of their organisation. The National Defence Committee also took procedural decisions. At the meeting on 14 March of this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 23 March and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading. The chairman of the committee proposed to appoint me as rapporteur, a consensual decision. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose a draft for amendments which, by virtue of the law, are... The manager will tell you in a minute. This was the Commission's debate on this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U527	No questions today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U528	Thank you. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U529	All right, let's open up the negotiations. Helle-Moonika Helme, please! [[Helle-Moonika Helme speaking.]] Then press the "Word" key. Yeah, "Speech" is here, and "Word" is there. Now, please! Speaking in a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U530	Yeah. We've had a long discussion on this subject that took place on the 23rd. On 23rd there was an item on the agenda where it was the duty of the honourable minister, as a member of the government who submitted the draft, to appear before the Riigikogu and answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, and since the agenda had not been amended by a vote in the Riigikogu, you could not, therefore, arbitrarily change it either. You did point out in your reply to the question of the members of the Riigikogu that your group decided that you would not be presenting the draft. So in order for your party to be able to come to the vote at this late hour, we propose that you reject this draft and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U531	Yes, this proposal has indeed reached us in writing. Okay, no more calls. It is now the case that the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading. The Conservative People's Party Group proposes that the draft be rejected and that this proposal needs to be voted through. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are discussing the draft law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The vote will be on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject draft 531 which I have just read out, at first reading. I therefore vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U532	With the result of the 20th and against 44, the proposal was not supported. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 531 remains in force. In this context, I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U533	We move to the seventh item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 551. This is Secretary of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimud.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U534	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There is a draft before you, particularly concerning the activities of management companies and investment funds and, to some extent, the activities of pension funds. This is a draft based on four EU directives. I'll give you an introductory view of all four of them. The first major issue is simplifying and clarifying the rules for the cross-border offer of investment fund units or shares, their cross-border offer. In particular, the European Commission has found that investment funds are predominantly offered only in its home country, which means that most investment funds are purely national-oriented funds. This is about 70% of the volume of funds or assets operating in the European Union. The rules on cross-border marketing will be simplified and amended by the draft before you. Firstly, the amendment clarifies that if the fund wishes to make a cross-border offer, the management company does not have to have a permanent establishment in another Member State. Perhaps, in essence, it does not need to have a representative office in that country in the future and does not need to appoint a representative there. As regards Estonian law, it must be said that there is no such requirement in Estonian law today either. But in order for legal certainty to really be greater, we are adding this exclusion to the law in order to save the legal costs of management companies otherwise. Another change in this directive is the right and the possibility of pre-marketing the AIF to banks, pension funds as well as other professional investors. This essentially means that management companies would be able to make a binding offer without having to make a binding offer immediately, so to speak, to feel the interest of professional investors in investing in the fund and, as has been said, without making a binding offer. Thirdly, a clear process is set out, as well as the conditions for the closure of the fund's cross-border offer. Until now, that is not in our law. This means that when the fund manager closes its offer to the fund, it must disclose the notice that the offer will be terminated, for example on its website. It is also necessary to offer investors an offer whereby they take back the shares of the fund at no extra cost. Fourthly, the precise list of information to be provided to the retail investor is set out. For example, information on how complaints can be lodged. This simply means that this information will be easily available to the retail investor in the future; it should not in any way search for this information itself, but the management company will be obliged to forward it to him in the future. The second part, the part of the amendments to the second directive, relates to the rights of the Financial Supervision Authority, which in turn relates to the managers of small funds. As a general rule, the manager of a small fund is a management company whose management of funds does not exceed EUR 100 million. Such management companies do not need to be authorised under the current law. However, they must register their activities with the Financial Supervision Authority and this registration is sufficient to enable them to act. To date, 55 small fund managers have registered with the Financial Supervision Authority. In general, they are private limited liability companies. In practice, it has become apparent that this small fund regime is not always used as it is intended, but rather used for other purposes. Other activities such as crypto business, for example, are sometimes dealt with. We have had examples where persons wishing to register as manager of a small fund have not been involved in any way with Estonia either. So in order to mitigate these risks and prevent possible abuses that could be cast into the shadow of Estonia's own companies at a later stage, the draft also provides additional foundations for the Financial Supervision Authority to be able to refuse registration of such persons. The third issue concerns the expansion of investment opportunities for pension funds' assets. According to the draft, pension funds may subsequently invest in commodities or commodity-based securities, the underlying of which may be agricultural commodities, such as fruit, coffee beans, but also, among other things, oil. Especially recently, everyone has certainly noticed how volatile the raw material market can and will be. However, this does not necessarily mean that pension fund risks increase. Rather, it is a change that would help and help diversify the investment portfolio and also provide better returns for pension collectors. The possibility of placing money from pension funds in longer-term deposits is also included. At present, only deposits with a call or a maturity of up to 12 months are allowed. From now on, we will no longer have such a limit in law if you support this bill. The possibility of investing in precious metals will also be increased. If, at present, up to 5% of the pension fund's assets can be invested in precious metals, this limit will be up to 25% of the value of the fund's assets. The fourth part concerns the obligation for banks, investment firms and management companies to take greater account of sustainability risks. Simply put, these risks are divided into three categories. There are also social risks, such as the use of child labour in the production chain, and there are risks related to governance, particularly those related to corruption, that are certainly well known to all of us. That's the kind of risk it's meant to be. While, until now, the provision of a security or an investment product had to take account in particular of the client's potential risk appetite and the investment perspective or horizon, the obligation to take greater account of sustainability objectives and to clearly describe and explain those risks to customers when providing investment services or investment products. In practical terms, this may mean that it is not recommended to invest in an industry where child labour, for example, is used, whether it is, I do not know, the coffee, tobacco, fast fashion or military industry. Separately, management companies are required to take sustainability risks into account in the investment policy of the funds they manage. These are the four most important changes related to the four directives. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U535	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U536	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The Reform Party has always been far from the kolkamentality and is very European infidelity. There are four such fundamental freedoms in Europe, one of which is the free movement of capital. The same draft is trying to cross these borders, because the current funds are all relatively the face of their country of origin, in other words, such collective funds, one could say. Of these fundamental freedoms of the European Union, which are four, one requires the free movement of capital. But the deadline for transposing this directive was, I read here, 2 August 2021. My question to you: if the Reform Party is in favour of free movement of capital across borders, why, under your leadership, have this directive been detained? It's almost a year before it was supposed to be taken over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U537	Thank you. Of course, an observant political observer may remember that in 2020 the Reform Party would have been very difficult for the government to come to Parliament with this draft. Surely this was an opportunity for you, for example, in 2020. But on the substantive side, I think that you will certainly remember and know it well in the background, as the party that held the finance minister's portfolio at the time, that there has been a rather thorough round of consultation with market participants in the preparation of this draft. As has been said, this concerns four directives. One transposition period was indeed August 2021, while the remainder have a transposition period of 1 August 2022, 21 August 2022 and 1 January 2023. So with them, we are well on track if Parliament considers this adoption to be important for the time being. Indeed, there has been some in-depth preliminary work with market participants and, for example, with the Financial Supervision Authority. Once again, I think that this developed solution is well known in advance to the parties involved, and not only do they know how to take it into account, but they have also been able to participate nicely in the development of this precise regulation. Sometimes it's a value in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U538	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U539	Thank you. You have had almost a year and a half with this directive, but you are talking about 2020. But that's my question. It is stated here that the main basis is Directive 2019/[1160], which amends Directives 2009/65 and 2011/61 and supplements Parliament's [and] Council Regulation 2019/1156 and Regulations 345/2013, 1286/2014 and [Directive] 2021/1269. But that's my question. I was looking for this impact analysis to see where it was. But it's in English for some reason. Why hasn't it been brought here in so-called Estonian? Otherwise, everything is in Estonian, but the impact analysis I was looking for is in English and the reference is also there. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U540	Thank you. If you now look at the explanatory memorandum to this draft, you will see that since page 44, the effects are described in the slave plain in Estonian on quite a number of pages. So it is also nice to have an impact assessment in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U541	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U542	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U543	On behalf of the Monetary Commission, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U544	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Monetary Commission discussed the preparation for the first reading at the meeting of 22 March of the draft law on the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, and Mr Thomas Honourable, Deputy Head of the Financial Services Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance took part in the discussion. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: To appoint a rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 6 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and ten working days for amendments to be tabled. The Minister explained this bill very well. If anyone has any questions, we will answer, but the Commission's protocol will be accessible to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U545	Work fast and decent. There are no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. We're done with the first reading. The deadline for submitting amendments shall be set at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U546	We will move on to the eighth item on the agenda: Draft Law on public water supply and sewerage initiated by the Government of the Republic 523. Please contact the Minister of the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair Erki Savisaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U547	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law on public water supply and sewerage. The full text of the draft has been drawn up in cooperation with various stakeholders and stakeholders. The draft work group included representatives of local governments, professional associations and ministries. The current law on public water supply and sewerage has already been in force since 1999, which means that the structure and basic concepts of the current law no longer meet modern needs. The purpose of the draft law is to create a harmonised legal instrument in terms of structure and content, which takes greater account of the general principles of environmental protection and which will result in a systematisation of the legislation and a better understanding for the addressees. Provisions are included to ensure the affordability of the water service price and the consistent performance of the service. The Law has also been supplemented by the grounds for suspension and termination of service resulting from violations of the Water Service Contract, the principles of sustainability of water service provision and the grounds for challenging the price of the public water supply and sewerage service. I'm talking about major changes. The Law on public water supply and sewerage makes provision of public water supply and sewerage services that meet the quality requirements of the consumer at a reasonable, reasonable and equitable price. The current law does not deal with the accessibility aspects of the service. In order to ensure a reasonable price and to provide sustainable water services, the State, the local government unit and other organisations may support the water undertaking in the light of State aid requirements. The OECD has recommended that the price of water services should not exceed 3 to 5% of the average net income of one household member. The World Bank's recommended higher cost of water services is also 3 to 5% of household income. In Estonia, the average water price is approximately 1.1% of the average net income of the household member. In order to ensure the affordability of the price of water services, it is important to take into account the price of water services provided through the proposed technical solutions when planning decisions are made. The principles of water pricing methodology are presented at the level of the law currently laid down in the guidelines of the Competition Authority. No substantive changes have been made there. In waste water collection areas with more than 2 000 people equivalents, where no joint sewerage pipeline has been built, a statutory obligation for the water company to ensure that the waste water transport service is carried out at the cost of the joint sewerage service. The costs of the jaring service shall be borne by the water undertaking at the expense of the price of the joint sewerage. A water company whose sustainability is not guaranteed, i.e. revenues do not cover costs, will also have the possibility, on a need-based basis, to calculate the price of water for the depreciation of fixed assets established for the non-repayable aid. This will also make it possible to ensure the sustainability of water companies in a situation where a large part of the assets are generated by European Union subsidies. However, taking into account the cost of depreciation of fixed assets for non-refundable aid is an exceptional situation and is only allowed to the extent that it avoids negative cash flows for the water company. This is calculated by the Competition Authority. The draft also provides for the obligation to join the public water supply and sewerage within the time limit specified in the public water supply and sewerage development plan, if an appropriate connection point has been established for this purpose. The introduction of the obligation to join is necessary in order to ensure that a critical number of entrants are also ensured if the local authority has found that the organisation of water services in the region is the most reasonable solution through a central system. The obligation to join shall not apply where the supply of drinking water and the collection and treatment of waste water are ensured by other means which comply with the requirements laid down under the Water Act. The obligation to join does not apply to industrial plants either, as the obligation to use public sewerage applies only to domestic waste water. For the treatment of industrial waste water, an industrial plant may set up a separate industrial treatment plant, taking into account the specific characteristics of the industry. The draft law has also amended the requirements for drawing up a plan for the development of public water supply and sewerage. As a source of investment planned in the development plan, public subsidies cannot be taken into account when drawing up financial forecasts in the absence of a decision on the allocation of funds. Investment planning must take into account the financial opportunities of the water company and the local government when drawing up financial forecasts. National contributions may only be taken into account if there is a decision to allocate funds. This is necessary in order to achieve sustainable management of water companies, as the development plan also includes the calculation of the price of water services in the region by the Competition Authority. If the development plan provides for State support to finance investments, it is not possible to take this part of the water service price into account because the investments made for the non-refundable aid must not be reflected in the water service price. Provisions governing the management of hazardous substances into joint sewers have also been included in the draft law. The provisions relate in particular to industrial plants which use dangerous substances in their activities. The industry must implement measures to ensure that waste water from public sewerage complies with the requirements. The measure concerns both the construction of pre-cleaners and the replacement of hazardous substances in production with more environmentally friendly substances. The aim of the provisions is to reduce the discharge of dangerous substances into the environment and to increase control over the flow of dangerous substances. The draft provides for the possibility for the water company to terminate the service in case of the management of non-compliant waste water pool. The draft law also introduces changes related to terminology and the provision of water services, for example in relation to dispute over the price of water services and the illegal use of water services. The Minister for the Environment is authorised by regulation to establish limit values for hazardous substances controlled by public sewerage and procedures for determining the volume and cost of the public water supply and the requirements, training programme and procedures for the person responsible for the operation of drinking water and waste water treatment facilities. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U548	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu also want to ask you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U549	Good manager! First of all, Minister, thank you for your very meaningful presentation of the draft. But two simple questions. There's one. When I've joined the waterworks, the price is one or two euros. If not, 14 euros may be requested. But the more question is that there are a lot of municipalities in Estonia where water and sewerage networks have not been built. They have not received support from the KIC on the one hand and have no budgetary resources themselves. In the Peipsiääre area, for example, water and sewerage are largely problems. What's the use of this 200-page bill for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U550	Thank you. After all, we have many different regions in Estonia, where there are different challenges both in providing water supply and in draining waste water. Peipsiääre is obviously one of them. This draft does not create any direct support measures. In this respect, the best that comes from here is the clarity of how to organise these processes in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U551	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U552	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm not gonna ask you about that Blackwater thing. But, on the one hand, the respect that, in the end, over a very long time, there is one whole text here, not another endless directive amending the directive. So, honor and praise to the Ministry. In the Commission, we have discussed these nuances here for hours. Perhaps for the benefit of colleagues, work started already in 2015 with the Act on Sewerage and Waterworks. My question is: are there any original laws of this kind coming up in the near future, or is it the only swallow or one of the few?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U553	Thank you, good Peter! There will be no such big drafts coming from the Ministry of the Environment in the near future. However, there are many plans to develop, and some laws need a new version that will make reading and understanding of the law easier and the legal provisions more appropriate to how we wish to organise these things today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U554	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U555	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Why don't you give me some advice? When you read the bill, it's a huge volume, over 200 pages of explanatory notes and content. What should these homeowners do, however, where a municipality or a water company is unable to solve the problem? Indeed, many municipalities have problems. But let's look at the Peipsiäär, there's no water in the summer, and the sewers can mostly go down the lake from the ditch. What could be the objective of this draft so that such problems can be resolved in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U556	Thank you. Well, one thing that this bill clearly regulates is that in the plan for the development of public water supply and sewerage, the local authority can identify the areas where this public water supply and sewerage must be built up. In the same way, they can make all the preparations, projects, coordination for this. If there is a lack of resources, we must hope that there will be funds available from which we can apply for additional funds to reach the successful end of these projects. But, of course, the important role of local government is to raise awareness of these problems, identify the regions concerned and design solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U557	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U558	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Well, it's simple: the water comes from the tap and the sewage flows into the cloak. But now there's this interesting approach to the effect that there's no demographic impact. It is rare to see this demographic impact being discussed. Can you explain what it means to have a demographic effect when the sewage disappears and comes with water, pure water? Does this mean that this sex doesn't stop us from having children? Or why such an unexpected demography of the Sewers Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U559	Thank you. For all the drafts, it is important to analyse the various aspects that it affects and does not affect. As you read exactly from there, this bill was not found to have any effect on our demographic developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U560	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U561	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Paragraph 50 (3): "The price of the combined water supply and sewerage service must not be discriminatory in relation to different consumers or groups thereof. " I do not understand from this sentence whether he cannot be discriminatory means that he cannot be different. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U562	What was the section number? I missed my ears. [[Mikhail Stalnukhin specifies the position.]] Paragraph 3. Yes, the cost of public water supply and sewerage services must not be discriminatory to different consumers or groups of consumers. I guess that means that you can't set different prices for different groups in the same area. I don't know, there are side by side some kind of double houses or terraced houses and then there are residential buildings, that for everyone the price of this service must be set on a uniform basis. This means, above all, not to mention that our constitution already prohibits all other forms of discrimination. This is the general idea of this provision, i.e. that the price for the same service cannot be different for the different entrants.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U563	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U564	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! As the city councillor of Tallinn, I have the following concern: The investment obligation in Tallinn is to build a one-kilometer water line per year. However, Tallinn Water has pretty much locked up these wells. If we look at the war in Ukraine, we know that if the electricity goes out, we won't get water. We should have a network of wells inside the sea, some of them sealed, some of them not. Coordination with this bill began when the good times were good. Now are the times when Ülemiste might be out of line. How does this law focus on this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U565	Thank you. This law certainly does not specifically regulate Tallinn's questions. This is clearly the competence of the Tallinn Council to solve both waterworks and sewerage issues in Tallinn. With the history of these decisions, I'm sure you're much better informed than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U566	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U567	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The first question goes on. You have two groups served by a local company. One [group] is the population and this water is one quality water that needs to be cleaned. Then you have some kind of larger group of industrial plants, and there's another chemistry. This means that the price of cleaning is drastically different. You may provide water there for one price, but if you make this cleaning process equal in terms of price, then that means whether companies start subsidising residents or residents start subsidising businesses. There are other situations. Does this mean that the price must be the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U568	Thank you. In particular, it means that when water comes from the same pipe, the price of water is the same. Of course, if the pollution of the waste water is different, then the cost of discharge of the waste water may also vary. In this respect, there are many exceptions for large polluters or industrial companies, ending up not being able to join the public water supply at all and having to clean up their own waste water. There is no doubt that prices can be different in this respect. But what is important is that the price for the same service must be the same for the different subscribers or consumers. There must be no discrimination. We have, like, two similar companies that produce similar sewage, and if one has one agreement, the other has another, it's kind of not okay. The prices of the service must be the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U569	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U570	Thank you. Dear Minister, A previous speaker asked about Peipsiääre, where there is no water network and sewerage, but it is also unbuilt, for example, I know specifically, in the Western Harju municipality. So how is this gonna be settled? Estonia has an obligation under the directives to build these networks in areas with a certain population density. If there are storage tanks, they're leaking, there's pollution going to the soil, it's an environmental hazard. Is it still possible to apply for EU funds, or are these measures already exhausted? I have not understood exactly whether and if so, in which funds and in what amount can municipalities apply for investment support for the construction of public water supply and sewerage networks? Many municipalities, where it has not been built, have not even own holdings. How's this gonna work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U571	Thank you. After all, on the European side, this guideline came so far as to build these systems in areas where there are at least 2 000 human units of pollution. We have managed these areas and these funds in general, and we have gone even further, to smaller regions. These funds are really all used up. When we talk about these smaller regions, it is the responsibility of the Estonian state itself to decide which solutions to use, and these instruments must be found by the state itself. In this respect, the European Union does not provide any additional resources, nor does it provide any additional investment. In the next period, no cents are available for water supply, or let's say water supply and sewerage. If some regions start to grow and there is more pollution than these 2 000 units, then the plan will also have to find solutions for the construction of waterworks and sewerage to minimise the risk of pollution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U572	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U573	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! That answer didn't do you much honor. You're still a minister in this field and you come here with this kind of thing. I am referring to a problem that may also exist in many other cities and perhaps even smaller places. Perhaps the idea is that we need to think about the crisis situation, how we would be guaranteed everything. We have a network of wells, but unfortunately, sometimes they're just built up, even though they should be sealed and preserved for these situations. I suppose I don't have to start asking questions, requests for information and all that, although that would be necessary, because maybe then the subordinates will be working too. I ask whether you can take this as a matter of your own simply to deal with this draft also how the water supply of the population will be ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U574	Thank you, good Tarmo! The situation you describe does not concern such regular water supply and sewerage services. It is still about ensuring continuity under the Emergency Act. What is this about? This is the scope of another law. In particular, it is clearly the responsibility of the local authority, which can also delegate it to the water undertaking. This is clearly the competence of the local government to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U575	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Now, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Timo Suslov.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U576	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take stock of the Commission's discussions. On 7 March this year, the Committee on the Environment discussed the draft law and Erki Savisaar, Minister of the Environment, made the same comprehensive review. Karin Kroon, Head of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Riili Kärmas, Adviser, were also present. These questions and answers are given to you in the minutes. In particular, the Members of the Commission had questions about industrial companies, which is a new thing in this sense. In today's presentation, the Minister responded well to them too, so I am not going to read it here. The chairman of the committee, Yoko Alender, paid particular attention to the issue of pricing. Here, in the same way, the minister before you today referred to what this answer was. Similarly, the canning introduced into the law of public water supply and sewerage is a new thing, so here was the question, and Riley Kärmas gave it an exhaustive answer. Finally, decisions were made. Proposals were made to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 6 April this year, by consensus, to propose the termination of the first reading, in the same way as the consensus, and to appoint Timo Suslov as the representative of the lead committee, which was similarly a consensual decision. Such a brief overview of what happened in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U577	Colleagues don't seem to have any questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U578	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must definitely thank those people who have written this draft over the last seven years. But on the other hand, you should think that if we take such a nice package here, several hundred pages have been written together, and let's think about what the benefits are, then it's kind of a great thing that we realize that some organization that has checked and set the terms of the price is simply written into this law. But how will it be resolved that the problem of water and sewerage is actually solved in a very large part of Estonia's regions, there is no public water supply? Unfortunately, there's no way the law can do that. Whether or not municipalities have worked hard for the last 20 years, whether or not they have written enough KIC projects, whether they have water supply companies themselves or whether they are municipal companies, or whether they have joined a larger water supply company, is one side. The other side is that there are a lot of problems. Not only in small areas, but also in county centres, where water and sewerage routes have not been renovated over the years, I was talking about the Peipsiääre, where there is no water in the wells and there is no water supply in the summer. Thanks to the possibility given to municipalities two years ago to borrow and invest. Each region thought what was most important to it, and especially before the local elections, it looked at how it was more politically useful what it looked like. As you know, there are usually no votes in municipal elections for what is being put underground, because it is not visible. So it's either clean water coming home or it's possible that the sewers clean the water properly. I think that this draft should certainly be seen in favour of it in the Commission, and it must also be seen in the discussion of our national budgets, that there has been a situation in which the debt burden on local governments has been allowed to reach 80%, and for many people this is the case. Now that it is possible to apply for and receive funding even from KIC, there is not much money left to fund self-financing. This concern is actually serious. I believe that the Minister has taken the bull seriously, and when the budget comes here in autumn, I hope that it will provide both state and European Union resources so that regions can receive grants through the KIC so that both smaller and larger regions can build proper water and sewerage pipelines. Clean water and sanitation, and everything else, are also a matter of security. In my opinion, for all the drafts that are now coming to this Chamber, we should also look at today's situation. Today is certainly quite different than when we thought about water and sewers a year, two or three ago. As a colleague here asked, what happens to wells that are sealed. Most wells are so deep you can't get water out of there with a hand pump. For this it is also essential to find an alternative, solutions... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U579	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U580	... how to solve these problems. But I think that the Committee on the Environment will also deepen the way in which water problems can be solved, if there really is a situation that pumping stations from some of the major water companies are shutting down, there is no flow. Today, we still have our whole lives built on electricity. If somewhere in the cleaners, the power goes out, it's really fast. The two of us here are from the city of Tartu from almost one neighborhood, at least we go shopping in one neighborhood, we see that when the rain comes, the sewerage in most cases cannot accept this rainwater. It is natural that in a year or two years, there will be a little more rain, and it does not make sense to invest ten times in thicker pipes, but it will have to suffer this day. But these are serious questions and problems that our country will face in the coming years. Together with the increase in defence costs, we also need to look at the economic side. We talked earlier, at the beginning of this day, about energy. Pure water, if you look at it in terms of health, is, I think, one of the most important conditions for a human being, apart from oxygen, to live on this earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U581	There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 523. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U582	Our ninth item today is the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 533. Please contact the Riigikogu Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U583	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to give you an overview of the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and other laws 533. The draft plan prior to the drafting of this draft law concerned mainly changes concerning the size of the lists and the service areas, the extension of the rights of nurses and the starting aid measure. Various changes have been introduced in the future, following the development plan made in 2018, as a result of the involvement of the various parties, or related to the comments and proposals made in the coordination circle following this same draft intention. Why am I saying this? Undoubtedly, in the midst of the COVID crisis and more generally, the health sector is always flexibly prepared to adopt sensible proposals and improvements in order to better provide healthcare to people. Let me be more specific about the changes. One important change in the primary context is certainly the extension of the rights of nurses. Perhaps the role, responsibility, and competence of sisters have grown in time, and it is reasonable that the legal space is the same as it is. More specifically, specialty nurses also have the right to a prescription, which has already been given to family nurses. Nurses also have the right to open and finish sick leaves, or disability sheets. This is particularly important in order to allocate the workload within the healthcare sector more sensibly and also to provide services to patients in an operational manner. The day-to-day work of family medical care, such as finding different lists of doctors, will be the responsibility of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. This proposal has been agreed with the parties. At present, this work is carried out by the Health Board. According to the proposal, if Parliament approves it, as of 1 July this year, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will organise competitions for the lists of family doctors. Of course, the Health Board organises those competitions that have been announced before, confirms the candidates and considers the competition to be unsuccessful if it fails. Already now, the Health Board and the Health Insurance Fund are working closely to deliver this service as smoothly as possible. Some points concerning family doctors and service areas are also changing. For example, foreign nationals who are legally staying in Estonia and who are insured for medical treatment are also allowed to enter the family doctor's registration. Just in case, I am going to say that this does not concern the beneficiaries of temporary protection, who are currently able to register on the list because of their residence permit. This change has already been agreed in the past, due to the general concern that there are quite a number of foreigners in Estonia who may have a problem registering as a family doctor, even though they are insured. Also, for the first time, in the case of new doctors, we allow a lower limit to be set as the size of a family doctor. Logic has once again been based on young people and start-ups being able to start their work more easily, in a situation where there may be other lists in the region, but it is reasonable and justified to establish a separate list. Service areas are further defined as local government units (t), district (de), municipality or municipality. At present, some service areas are very small and sometimes it can be incomprehensible to a person. We're going to structure the system a little bit again. The transitional provision gives time here until the end of 2023, because there are many service areas that need to be reviewed calmly, also due to the reform of the municipalities that took place a few years ago. Of course, it is also important that people always know who is operating in the region. The family doctor may also be obliged to inform the persons on his list in good time if the place of business changes. From now on it will be possible to assign an additional service area to a family doctor. In addition to a family doctor, you can confirm the list to a doctor-resident in family medicine who is qualified as a family doctor. The assumption is that by the time he starts working as a family doctor, he may have completed his residency. Smaller-scale lists and service areas can be further merged under this proposal, as very often these lists with a replacement are below the limit size and many of them are replaced by a doctor who actually has a list. In certain cases, it makes sense to combine them. On the basis of a separate change, it is possible, for example, that if a family doctor or temporary substitute is not found on the list, it can also be served by a health care provider with a general medical care licence who acts as a health centre. However, even if these public competitions fail, HVA hospitals will also be allowed to serve persons on the list that is not family doctors for up to one year. Although, of course, the goal is that primary work and family medical care are provided by family doctors, family nurses, and health centres. If, for some reason, this is not possible in some areas, in order not to leave people without a service, the hospital is given the possibility to perform this role temporarily. But, of course, before such a decision is made, we must negotiate with doctors on the ground, with family doctors and with other partners in order to find the most reasonable solution possible. The first preference is certainly that there is a temporary substitute or people are served by a local health centre. HVA Hospital may be the last straw. The aim and proposal are also to increase initial support and make the system somewhat more flexible. A doctor who has acquired a degree may be allowed to apply for starting allowance for a longer period after the employment begins. There have been, I can tell right now, concerns in my practice as well. If the person otherwise entitled to the basic allowance simply lodges the application too late, it is as if he or she should not receive the initial grant, although in essence he or she may meet these requirements and conditions. So it's, I think, reasonable to change. We will also create the possibility of using starting aid even if more than five years have passed since the end of the residency or if a specialist doctor has acquired a specialty without going through the residency, as such exceptional circumstances are also possible. Instead of the specific amount of the basic payment, the level of the basic payment shall be fixed and the possibility of paying it up to a three-fold rate shall be established. The starting grant rate is EUR 15000, which is still the level of the initial grant, but can be paid in certain cases due to the need to provide healthcare in some regions. Perhaps there may be situations where, at an increased rate of up to three times the rate, the payment of the fee may be necessary to provide patients with medical care. The differences must, of course, be specifically mentioned in the Minister's regulation; they still need to be agreed with the parties. In addition, if the doctor wishes to work for less than five years, i.e. the doctor receiving the basic allowance is employed for less than five years and already informs the doctor when applying for the basic allowance, the starting allowance shall be paid in proportion to the period of work planned. This reduces situations where it may later be necessary to recover this basic allowance due to the fact that the beneficiary did not comply with the requirement or obligation to work for five years. These are the kind of changes in work organisation that, in many ways from life itself, help to strengthen the first level again, help to make the system more flexible and thus to ensure better access to family medical care for the people of Estonia. Thank you! I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U584	Yeah. Thank you. And there are questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U585	Thank you. How has this problem been solved? I read that the rights of a family doctor may be revoked by one organisation or another and the list will be transferred from one place to another. What rights do I have? I usually choose a family doctor according to certain characteristics, not just random. One minute it turns out I've been assigned a new family doctor. Shouldn't it be that the family doctor on the list should also know that the family doctor has sold or changed his list? I'll make sure the Health Insurance Fund has the right to say one day that this family doctor won't fit and there'll be another. What rights do I have? Can I change the family doctor? Where can I go? There are lists in certain areas, cities. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U586	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your question. The idea of these legislative changes is in no way to make information less accessible to a person, rather the other way around. Family doctor exchange may also take place, for example, because the family doctor retires, simply because he or she is older, but maybe because he or she is moving to another job. Of course, the role of the Health Insurance Fund in the future is to help ensure that the new doctor is on the list in the best way in the future, and patients should also be informed about this. The idea is also that if a family doctor changes his/her area of service, he/she should inform his/her patients in good time so that patients can decide if they are moving with him/her, for example, if the family doctor is in another part of the city, then they will visit the doctor or find another family doctor if the situation does not satisfy them. Rather, the situation for a person is still becoming more legally clear and information is coming earlier than it has been so far. A person must be informed in good time when a family doctor is changing the service area. Certainly, the health insurance fund or the state, on its own initiative, will not remove any family doctor from any list for any reason. On the contrary, we are still dealing with finding them, this is an extreme exception, a total violation of the rules in someone's case, for example, if the licence were taken away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U587	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U588	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Well, it was a nice long story. I read here that the proposed changes will help to make family medical care more accessible. This is the specific question that has been addressed to me by a number of people, namely the people of Tallinn and Harjumaa, who are complaining that the problem now is not the quality of family doctor service, but rather the availability, which is extremely difficult in some places, and especially in large areas, we are talking about Harjumaa and Tallinn. Can you confirm that this bill will change this situation and that family doctor service will become so much more accessible that the problems that are currently typical will disappear? People have a problem when they try to get in touch with a family doctor, they can call all day, but they can't get in touch with a family doctor. How, then, can it be said that the problem will disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U589	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. That these concerns in the field of health will disappear completely, certainly no minister can promise, otherwise he would just lie. The aim is to clean up the system, make it more flexible, easier for patients, easier to understand, and more rationally allocate tasks within the health sector itself. We have regions with substitution lists, 51 out of 786 family doctors. There's always competitions to find new doctors. There are critical places in many places, both in smaller municipalities and in larger places. Well, it's a continuous job, isn't it? The direction is, as I referred to before, to facilitate the arrival of new, or young, doctors and the collection of lists, which we have done in the past with various changes during this same parliamentary term. For example, we have increased the possibility of incubation, the new doctor, the starting doctor alongside a doctor who has experience of starting a job, and we have also increased the distance fees, precisely with the aim that in rural areas too, family doctors would be more motivated to act. So this work will continue, and this bill will contribute to this if Parliament approves it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U590	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U591	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I read here that all health care professionals can write out a disability page. For the purposes of the Pharmaceutical Act, pharmacists and pharmacists provide pharmacy services, as well as healthcare professionals. Can they write out a disability page too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U592	Thank you for your question. In this case, however, we are talking about healthcare professionals at the so-called primary level, i.e. doctors, family doctors, family nurses, for example, a doctor who is a temporary substitute, can prescribe it. No pharmacists, no pharmacists, no sick leave, no disability sheets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U593	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U594	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, there is a need to find a solution for people who do not have a family doctor. This will to find a solution is very right and good. But we also discussed in the Commission why some lists were to be moved to hospitals on the hospital network, not to health centres. You said it was because health centres do not have a legal definition in law. Did you also discuss this and consider defining health centres legally, or if you didn't, why didn't you, or if you did, why wasn't this definition written into law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U595	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this provision of HVA hospitals, which I described as such a last straw, is here because of the lack of better alternatives. The goal is certainly that, within the primary level, these solutions can be found between family doctors: first, the family doctor, then the replacement, then, for example, the health centre and then the hospital in the last distress, if no other solution works. Eventually, a person will be a patient in the hospital emergency department, for example, if he or she is not otherwise able to cope with his or her health problems. This regulation of health centres, I think, must definitely be done. The current draft law is another intermediate stage and, in this sense, the improvement of certain places in the law, certainly not the end point, the first level cannot be completed. Just as we have just discussed the development of a development plan, there is certainly a need to move forward in parallel with the health centres model. Here are some legal nuances that need to be clarified, to be clear, so that there are no moments where, for example, family doctors incur proportionally more responsibilities for the health centre than for the health centre, and so on. They must be treated as equally as possible. However, I think that, in the longer term, the aim is that the family doctor system can cope with any list of family doctors and the hospital clause that is currently proposed as a legislative amendment remains a temporary solution that I hope will be able to be removed from the law in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U596	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U597	Thank you. At the end of the sentence, there's nothing more secure than temporary. But I'm asking you the other way around. Family doctors are private entrepreneurs. Health centres, owned by family doctors, have been established and established all over Estonia. If a family doctor retires at one point and has already paid so much to that health center that he has become owner of it 100%, then there is no more question. Now, where does this health insurance fund put this new family doctor when there are no rooms? It's a very cool project, it's a health center. I appreciate it. Although construction prices have become so expensive that those who were lazy... I'm ashamed of my county for dragging Jõgeva to the last minute and now paying over a million dollars. How is this solved? The family doctors will be the owners. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But when a family doctor retires, he is not obliged to give up these rooms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U598	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U599	Thank you. Thanks for the question. In fact, health centres have quite a different form of ownership. There are those where the hospital is owned, where the municipality owns it, where a separate legal association is established either by family doctors or on a number of sides. Maybe there are different solutions. Indeed, it is important that there are certain conditions for the use of euro money, i.e. it is not possible to use these premises as a health centre today and to start shopping there tomorrow. Of course, it is important that this health centre service is maintained. These legal solutions must be found that somebody, such as a member of a private limited company, can leave and then, just as elsewhere, can sell their shares to others or otherwise dispose of them. As I referred to earlier, there are legal nuances that need to be resolved when we begin to regulate health centres more specifically in the law. But fortunately, problems such as those described at the moment have not come up in practice. The increase in construction prices that you described is unfortunately true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U600	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U601	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are definitely two views on this draft. One view is the view of family doctors, which they have signalled in their letter to you and probably to the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and others. The second view is the patient's view. I'm talking about the patient's view. For example, in Viljandi County, thousands of people remain without a family doctor in the middle of this year. The municipalities where family doctors leave are known, and a family doctor leaves Viljandi. This hospital network development plan hospital is a place where a person can potentially get help. I'm honestly saying that I'm not saying that I either don't like my family doctor or I don't get to him, or he's got a lot of work to do, but that I don't have a family doctor. But I have a question. Family doctors have expressed their views, but how do hospitals feel about this? Do you also have the feedback that hospitals think, how they can cover it [need] and ensure it? Indeed, in Viljandi County, a very large number of people remain in the middle of this year without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U602	Yes, honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question and for your good observation. I would like to begin by stating that Viljandi is currently one of the most complex regions. As far as I am aware, there are currently such lists in three areas: Viljandi rural municipality, Mulgi rural municipality, northern Sakala rural municipality. In this case, it is Viljandi; some time ago, the issue of Setomaa, for example, was at the top. I guess it's actually a problem across the country. Hospitals have been dealt with. Hospitals aren't thrilled about it, it's an honest answer. As always in the field of health, all parties have enough work and work to do. In this light, receiving new assignments may not necessarily be a source of joy. I think that it is certainly important for hospitals to develop a concrete and clear financing model that needs to be done. For example, if this list really needs to be taken over temporarily, how these costs will be covered, how they will be helped to find a doctor and so on. But you said correctly, in the patient's view, the starting point that we have pointed out in the drafting is that if all these first phases fail for whatever reason, the patient cannot stay between the real earth and the sky, so that he has no one to cover his needs for health services. His only option would then be to contact the emergency department, even though he himself knows that in the case of a lot of health problems, this is not really the place to go. So hospitals are ready to take over, they're not doing it with great euphoria, they're doing it out of responsibility to the patients. But they hope, just as I do, that this solution will be needed as little as possible and that we will be able to resolve these issues at the level of family doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U603	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U604	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the very subject of funding that you yourself have just finished. The funding of family doctors and hospitals is known to be very different, philosophically and practically. How is it planned to fund hospitals in the hospital network now? If they take these lists, how does it go with the funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U605	Thank you for your question. The specific financing model must be agreed and developed. It is clear that these costs must then be covered by the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, as is the case today for both primary and hospital general budgets. However, the specific so-called norm has not been confirmed, as there has not yet been a corresponding law and regulation has not yet been legally adopted. If this is done, we will, of course, also make changes to the Health Insurance Fund's price list.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U606	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U607	Yes, thank you! You spoke about the flexibility of the health system and about human-centredity. I myself have a lot of experience with getting to specialist doctors and queues. For the sake of protocol, I ask what your answer is. Is this more flexible and human-centred only for foreigners, or is it related to Estonian people in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U608	Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Not only in the future, but also in the present and in the past, of course, it has to do with all the residents of Estonia, both the residents of Estonia and those who, for example, have received temporary protection from various war atrocities. If I am also talking about the patient's view, it is specifically about giving nurses the opportunity to open sick sheets, it is about starting with a smaller list in areas that are spread out of place, these are all places that, in fact, specifically make health services more accessible to Estonian people. As I said before in reply to your colleague, these are the next steps along this road, certainly not the end point. In the long run, I have said this repeatedly, Estonian health care needs considerably extra money to guarantee all services to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U609	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U610	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Actually, there's been some talk about these financial influences here, but it's kind of a round talk, maybe you can't be quite happy with these answers. That's why I'm asking. After all, the financial impact on the state linked to the entry into force of this draft should be of some kind. Although, yes, you said that plans would be made when plans were made, then calculations could be made. But there could be an order of magnitude. What can these financial costs be, what can we consider, what can we look at?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U611	Thank you. Since this draft is rather a matter of organisational changes, these financial implications are secondary. In this case, we do not increase the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and we do not increase the state's obligations. A specific example on which colleagues asked: if a person does not receive family medical care at the level of a family doctor, it will be at the hospital level, then in terms of size, these costs will be similar. It's just one way to get one place, another way to get another place. There is no such package of additional services or such a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U612	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U613	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are actually before us with a very serious bill. I'll start right in the middle. Before COVID, the specialist had very long queues, the longest in the European Union. We know how much treatment is not scheduled, and yet hospitals are still largely dealing with COVID sufferers. Now they get to this piece of work, it's a first level, there's no specially prepared people in hospitals. Where does this human resource come from? How do you actually see in this situation that this law will work for people, that people will actually get help? Small hospitals we're gonna shut down in a row. How does it actually [take place], do you have [some] parallel action in order, however, to essentially resolve the whole issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U614	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I'll start by saying that no hospital has been locked up in my day, no hospital network development plan hospital is scheduled to shut down now. They are certainly necessary for the provision of services in their area. It is true that the adoption of any draft legislation does not automatically attract doctors, nor will there be extra money in the health sector unless Parliament approves it. Logic really is, as I pointed out earlier, that in this emergency, where a person is left without a family doctor, even without a replacement, and the health centre cannot, for any reason, have the task of helping the patient, taking it for itself, the hospital, the hospital, the hospital network hospital, the place where the person turns with his or her worries. Just through the EMO door, which is known to be a much more expensive service option. The logic is, in this case, that it would be more reasonable to agree with this hospital on the establishment of a separate medical facility with the staff providing services, supporting staff, in order to provide this family doctor with different general medical care or first-level services on a temporary basis. That's the logic. I'm sure it's not easy. As before, I am not tired of repeating here that it is intended as an emergency solution to make sure that man does not remain between the real earth and heaven, where he does not figuratively have any contact points to turn to maybe a family doctor's advisory line of 1220.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U615	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U616	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask you about the same subject. You responded nicely that hospitals are not enthusiastic and that family doctors do not agree with this change in order to allow the provision of first-level services in hospitals on a temporary basis. I would very much like to know what this fundamental reason for making this type of change is. I immediately remembered the parallel of education. It's very difficult to find teachers at a country school. So let's shut down the schools and put responsibility for education at the University of Tartu in South Estonia. Undoubtedly, the professor is also capable of giving children literacy, but it is not basic education, it is not general skills. A grade teacher is a separate qualification, a specialty, as is a university lecturer or professor in some areas. In the same way, family medicine is not the work of a basic physician; it is a separate specialty; it is a separate invitation that is acquired. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How can you expect this type of skills from a doctor working in a hospital or...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U617	Time, please, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U618	Is there no other way to solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U619	Thank you. Basically, I agree with everything you said. That's why I'm not tired of repeating that it's not meant as a basic solution, not even as a plan B, but as a C or a D. In this case, it is not quite right to compare with a situation where a person is guaranteed a family doctor's service in the so-called traditional key, but rather to compare it with a situation where he is not guaranteed anything. This is the reference moment. In this case, we don't think, and I don't think, like you, that the hospital would somehow provide a better family doctor than the family doctor does. However, the hospital will provide better care for the family doctor or general medical care if it is ensured by someone, so to speak, that there is a situation where the person does not have a single family doctor's appointment. That's the logic and the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U620	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U621	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I have the future of essential public services in my hands, the report, four maps, red, some places are especially red. My question is: how does this transformation help, for example, Hiiumaa, where 100% of family doctors are of retirement age, or Võrumaa or Lääne-Viru County, where there are 68% of family doctors, or Jõgeva County, where there are 67% of them? How does that help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U622	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for the question. Any such draft will contribute. I'm about to describe, for example, how. One side is what I referred to: the distribution of competences between doctors and nurses. Another concrete example from the perspective of rural areas is the provision of basic support. In exceptional cases, the proposal allows for a three-fold amount of initial support at a rate of 15000. An exceptional manager can be very free to be in an area where there really is no specific healthcare provider and where, for example, it is more reasonable to offer a starting grant of EUR 45000 to the graduates of the family medicine residency who are going to work there. As I pointed out earlier, in the regulation of start-up aid, we are still going to see certain changes in this very draft, making it more flexible in this view too, that it does not necessarily have to be freshly resident or completed in five years by the beneficiary, but it may also have done so [previously]. It is also possible to submit the application at a later stage. With these points, we are giving a little more levers in organising health care to motivate doctors or motivate health professionals to take up work in a particular area in a particular area. They will certainly also help smaller settlements and regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U623	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U624	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'll continue on the subject. Indeed, the provision of primary care in a local hospital is obviously not effective in terms of resource use, is not a close-to-home service for the patient, and is in no way a sensible decision in terms of increasing the quality of service. Why cannot this responsibility be placed on a regional health centre? At the same time, there are family doctors who deal with their own list. Other agreements can also be provisionally found. The question is, can we hope that if a hospital starts providing a list of patients with primary care, it will be temporary. If there is such a deep shortage of family doctors in the area, where do these people come from, what is the motivation if nothing else changes in the system? This temporary solution, we are not talking about a few months here, can become very long-term. How can we solve this problem? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] For many people, however, the place for family medical care may be, I don't know, a local hospital 70 kilometres away, where...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U625	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U626	... the service content is also different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U627	Thank you for your question. The aim really is that it should be temporary, and that is what we must work to keep it that way. Let me give you a simple example. Every year, 35 new doctors are taken into the family medicine residency, initially students, later then doctors. Almost as much every year, though not so much, ends up. Not everyone takes a list, but these are the potential number of people who can be offered the opportunity to apply in this region or another region, maybe receive start-up support, and the local government often provides support. At the end of the tunnel, though, there is also a light that is constantly catching up with young, good doctors who are often ready to work in rural areas. Perhaps because of family background or origin, but also because, for example, in the capital city in particular, it may not be possible to start a list at the time. So this is one way to keep it temporary. The other side is, as you rightly said, that the primary preference, as I referred to before, is the same health centre. There's a family doctor first, then there's a temporary replacement, then there's a health centre. If, for some reason, these stages fail, this will be the hospital stage. Similarly, for example, [doctor] may temporarily be at the same health centre or the usual family physician may be away from [work], for example, due to a positive event, such as having a child or other similar situation. He'll come back, but for some period, a replacement is needed, and if it can't be guaranteed on the first level, the hospital will come to the rescue. But it's not the hospital's goal, it's not the family doctors' goal, and even less so, it's my goal that it stays somehow permanent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U628	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U629	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister! I agree very much with you in this respect that the hospital is certainly a better provider of family medical services than no one. I've been in contact with several hospital executives. They say what happens is that people are still going to ER. I would ask myself and colleagues to convince me once again that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is a better service provider than the Health Board and the hospital is a better provider of family medical services and more able to obtain these doctors than family doctors themselves, for example, who are concentrated in a single company.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U630	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. Starting from the beginning: the Health Insurance Fund may have a greater advantage over the Health Board, in particular, that the Health Insurance Fund, through both the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, is the institution that organises health services, as well as the model of the financing system. The health authority, apart from its oversight role, does not actually have many levers to carry out specific tasks in finding lists and doctors. In the health fund's view, this capacity is certainly greater. It is also precisely in fact possible to adapt your price list to the proposals of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, the decisions of the Council, the decisions of the Government. If there are any specific concerns that arise in the course of the work, then [it is necessary to look at] what should be the best solutions to better identify family doctors. The other part of your question is what I said to the contrary, perhaps the best thing to do is to have a family doctor and a health centre after a family doctor, and then the hospital will come. The hospital is the last plan. If this is what your question really expected, and I assume that if the family practice and health centre work better, this particular list will never reach the hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U631	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U632	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I will go back to this priority services report and now I will take another map of the size of the lists. For example, in Tartu in 1802, Tallinn and Harjumaa in 1760 and so on. That's my question. The names are too big, but now we've got 28000 war refugees still here, so I've checked. They are mostly in Tallinn, Tartu and these sweetest places. How is their service now going with this restructuring, and will these lists become particularly large? Or where do they take the 60 new family doctors that I understand will be needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U633	Thank you, Member of the Riigikogu. We all hope, of course, that those temporarily hiding from the horrors of war in Estonia from Ukraine will be able to return to their homeland as soon as possible. But as long as this is not possible, it is our moral duty to offer them living conditions here, just like the people of Estonia. The provision of health services is certainly one of them. In the field of health, it has been organised at first level through surveillance centres, and it has been specifically agreed what are the centres that are, so to speak, ready and able to serve Ukrainian war refugees, even in terms of language. Later, gradually, depending on whether these people return to their homeland or whether some of them remain here, it is, of course, possible that they will find quite permanent solutions, lists. Depends on where they work, where their children go to school, and so on. As I indicated, every year we receive 35 students from family medicine residency. This number has been increased. The aim is also that the maximum number of them, number one, remain in Estonia, number two, remain in the health care system, and number three, remain in the family medicine system. Perhaps all such changes concerning the payment of starting grants, more flexible access to employment opportunities, as well as distance charges and other such models, will certainly support the fact that they will remain here and that the drought of family doctors, which currently exists in this area, will gradually be alleviated by none of us here. But, as I pointed out earlier, sustainable funding for health is also important in the long term, which is not guaranteed by the current system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U634	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U635	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the second question where you left off in your answer to the first question. I agree with the logic that the hospital could be the final stage in this solution. But I'm going to ask you another way around the logic question. You mentioned that the Health Insurance Fund is more capable than the Health Board, which I agree with. But could this combination not be such that family doctors and family doctors, as entrepreneurs, will continue to cooperate with the health insurance fund and try to find a solution among themselves? I think it would make a lot more sense than the fact that this service has been imposed on hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U636	Thank you very much, good member of the Riigikogu. I'm glad we're on the same page. That is the point and logic of the law that, first and foremost, cooperation with family doctors, family doctors on the ground and health centres seek this solution. If, for some reason, it is not possible to find a solution like this in some counties, in some areas or, for example, temporarily, it is not possible, then the hospital will really play as a possible place that has provided this health service so far. Here before, your colleague asked how to ensure that this remains temporary. I gave an example at the time of the graduation of this residency. It is also possible, for example, that a person who has been resident for the last year wants to take a list in the area, he cannot yet serve, he can do so from the moment he has completed his family medicine residency. Then there is the option that, for example, until then, when one doctor has retired and the other doctor has not yet completed [residency], the hospital will perform to ensure that man does not remain between the earth and the sky. But if it can be filled by a family doctor on the spot or by a health centre, it is the first preference.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U637	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the co-report. I call Mr Tiiu Aro, member of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U638	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Minister! The draft law was on the agenda of the Social Committee [144]. ] on March. A lively debate took place, all members of the Commission took part. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, presented the draft, and Heli Paliste, Head of the Health Network of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the response. The debate focused mainly on the same issues as the Saalisk here today. It's the same thing as not wanting to involve more health centres. The answer was that the company providing general medical care at the health centre would be temporarily allowed to serve the list. But here the obstacle is still this centre's legal form, the centre has no legal personality. There was then a discussion of the number of lists of family doctors who do not have replacement doctors at work, without real family doctor's help, but it is still not a sustainable solution, since substitution is still meant to be temporary. It was said that this is not a very big problem, 51 lists are still a relatively small percentage. Siret Kotka asked which specialized doctor would take the hospital network development plan to the hospital for the patient's first visit. This issue has often been the subject of such informal discussions. Sound Palate replied that the assistance provided by the hospital should, in terms of quality and content, comply with the same requirements as the assistance provided by the family physician. In addition to a family doctor, the presence of a family nurse must be guaranteed. He said that the preliminary analysis revealed that in hospitals, family doctors work in different positions. Priit Sibul asked how the draft stipulates that the hospital network development plan for hospitals would only be a temporary task for the provision of family medical services and asked for clarification as to the length of the temporary period. Tanel Kiik replied that the hospital in the hospital network provides family doctor services on a temporary basis and at the same time continues with additional activities to find a permanent family doctor service provider in the area. If the competition for finding a family doctor continues to fail in a region, the temporary period may be longer, as a person must have access to medical care. Helmen Kütt asked how the list of patients would be informed if the family doctor was not found with the announced competition and the list would therefore be served by the hospital. He commented that patient information should be clear and well thought out in order to avoid possible misunderstandings. Heli Paliste answered this question that according to the draft, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will inform the local government and patients. In addition to written information, the patient should also be informed at the place where the family doctor was previously admitted. Important procedural decisions were also taken. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 6 April, today, to propose the completion of the first reading and to appoint a speaker as the representative of the lead committee. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U639	Thank you. I don't see any questions, so we can go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation either. [[A voice from the hall.]] Look, we can still negotiate. Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U640	Sorry about the mess! I should have pressed the right button right away. There are a number of very important changes to this draft 533 that the Minister introduced to us. But I would focus on the very subject that was fundamental both in the Commission and in this Chamber today. Still, who will provide health care for people without family doctors? But just so we're clear, let's take a look at history. Training in family medicine is already taking place in Estonia since 1992. In 1993, the family medical profession became a part of the list of medical specialists and became a specialist. The first family doctor centers were formed. The first regulation on the organisation of work and financing dates back to 1997, which was 25 years ago. Now, there are some terms that make a little bit of a mess in conversations between people who are not quite familiar with each other. First, general medical care is an outpatient health care service provided by a family doctor and by healthcare professionals working with him. Family doctor is a specialist with 6+3, now 6+4 years of training. A general practitioner is a non-resident doctor who receives a general medical qualification after six years of study. "First-level health care" is also a set of words that are not provided for in any legislation. This is a necessary set of outpatient services for a person. The health centre is a centre where family doctors are concentrated and services are provided not only by family doctors and family nurses but also by physiotherapists, midwifes and nurses. Now to the bill. What are these concerns? We all know that there are areas where family doctoral competitions are constantly failing. There are no doctors willing to take the responsibility of the list and at the same time work in the rural area on the so - called periphery. The effort to find a solution to the situation that has arisen over the years must be recognised and the provision of family doctor services for all persons, but there are worrying aspects to the proposed option. I think that, for the time being, the medical team is primarily concerned, but maybe patients too. The draft provides for the right of the Health Insurance Fund to temporarily hand over the care of persons without a family doctor to a general medical care provider operating in a health centre, which would be the best solution for the hospital mentioned in the hospital network development plan. The aim of this measure is to read very slowly.. to ensure that general medical care or its quality is guaranteed. What is it, and who is it? Does the hospital have the necessary staff to provide general medical care, that is, doctors qualified as family doctors? Do they also need a licence to provide general medical care? What is the readiness of hospitals to take over the family medical records? The hospital executives I've spoken to have no one had that idea. Or do doctors, surgeons, orthopaedics, women's doctors who work in hospitals really start providing health care of the quality of general medical care? Funding is not a less important problem. Family doctor services are known to be financed in combination: through bounty, base money and various funds, significantly different from service-based specialist medical care. How are the so-called general medical care and studies provided by the hospital to be financed? And like here today... Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U641	Two minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U642	Temporary solutions are sometimes indispensable, but often they tend to become permanent. I think we need a long plan. We have some components. Around 50 primary health centres have been established. Their support needs to be continued. The people who work in them are enthusiastic and are ready to help develop solutions. Legal status must be established at the level of the law. The current system for replacing family doctors also needs to be reviewed. I hope that this situation will be taken into account and will provide solutions for a new first-level development plan, which I know has already begun. I think that, in the course of the procedure for this draft, we will all be able to come up with our proposals so that this bill becomes a real law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U643	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 533. We do not have any other proposals. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 21 April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U644	The tenth item on the agenda. First reading of the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 536 as rapporteur for the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U645	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today I will give an overview of another draft, which is 536 SE, amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and, in connection with this, also the draft amendment of another law, such as the Law on the Border and the Law of the State Gazette. The main aim of this draft is to make the minimum necessary legal changes so that decisions relating to the epidemic can be more predictable, clearer and transparent in future and that Parliament's role in resolving these crises is also more comprehensive. I start with the fact that, fortunately, we are currently in a situation where the restrictions and requirements associated with the COVID pandemic have largely been removed because the spread of the virus has decreased so much. Looks like the situation... I don't know if...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U646	What?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U647	I think there's a gentleman here who wants to ask a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U648	Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural! You have a procedure, Kalle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U649	Thank you. I waited for the microphone to turn on. Is it possible to ask the Minister to raise these thickest ends of the microphone closer to his mouth? Otherwise, you don't say at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U650	Yeah, it's really bad hearing back there sometimes. Let's try it harder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U651	Okay, thanks. I'm not talking from the very beginning, but I've come to the point that at the moment, fortunately, we're in a situation where the COVID pandemic is retreating, or this time the wave is coming to an end, the restrictions have been relaxed, or they've been completely lifted. With this bill, we are primarily preparing for the future. Just as we have seen five different strains and four different waves in Estonia in the case of this particular pandemic in two years, in some countries more, the pandemic may continue in the same way. There may be new, similar, but perhaps more dangerous infectious diseases that need to be protected against their own people. With this draft, we specify the rules for the quarantine of persons in the event of the epidemic spread of a particularly dangerous or dangerous infectious disease and the control of the epidemic spread of a particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious disease. So far, in the last two years, these measures, restrictions and requirements have been regulated by the Orders of the Government of the Republic, but in the future there is a proposal to introduce them more precisely at the level of law and regulations. During an emergency caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, administrative acts, or general arrangements, have so far been issued by the government. This is, in itself, a correct [convergence] if it is a temporary situation which needs to be resolved quickly. These measures were therefore reviewed on a regular basis by the Government, mitigated where possible and extended where necessary. However, we have now come to a situation where it is fair to say that we can no longer talk about the temporary situation. It therefore makes sense to review at law level what legal regulation and solutions should be in the long term to combat both this and future pandemics. The draft replaces the new term "Dangerous communicable disease." A dangerous infectious disease is not just any disease, it is a disease with the relevant characteristics: it spreads rapidly and extensively, the course is severe and the spread leads to a health emergency or its threat. Dangerous communicable diseases include both novel communicable diseases for which there is no knowledge, as well as emerging communicable diseases, the spread of which may be rapid and extensive, or the suffering of which may have serious consequences and, as I pointed out, which lead to a health emergency or its threat. Therefore, the draft sets clear limits on which communicable diseases can and should not be subject to control measures. A simple example: a typical influenza virus does not belong to it, but if a similar pandemic virus exists, such as the corona virus, Sars-COV-2, it may be necessary for the country to react again at both government and health authority levels. The draft also amends the definition of quarantine. Compared to the current law, the concept is more limited and the linking of quarantine with restrictions on the movement of goods and vehicles or with restrictions on the provision of services is excluded. Quarantine is, according to this draft, a measure applicable to the epidemic spread of a highly dangerous or dangerous communicable disease, according to which a person is obliged to be present at his place of residence or permanent residence, if he has been diagnosed with a particularly dangerous or dangerous communicable disease, i.e. if the analysis has been positive or if, for example, he is suspected of being infected. Both the definition of quarantine and the related regulation are in fact the same as the current Order 212, which is the order of the Government of the Republic concerning quarantine. From now on, it would be possible for quarantine to be imposed by a government regulation precisely in the event of a particular particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious disease, and for the Health Board to do the same with an administrative act if it has been authorised by the government or if it is necessary to react very quickly, for example in a situation where an outbreak or an outbreak has occurred without being able to gather at government level and take decisions. The bill also provides for a limitation in order to avoid any such misunderstandings: The Health Board can impose quarantine for a maximum of 30 days, and then in any case the government must have already developed the right, or well-considered, reasoned policy. It is also clearly stated at the level of the law that these [measures] can only be used if both these and other measures are really high risk and the measure is strictly necessary, such as the arrival of a person from a high risk of infection, crossing a national border, and participating in some of the activities related to goods and services offered to the public or taking place in public indoor or underground areas and the like. The public interior or land area is also clearly defined in the draft: it is a space or territory designated for the use of an indefinite number of persons in their use or where they may be present. I would point out immediately that we did not deliberately regulate as precisely as possible, we are talking about public indoors and land. We are not talking about anyone's homes, we are not talking about places where there are no such separate arrangements currently imposed by the government. Many measures, restrictions and requirements are, in substance, exactly the same as those used in the event of a COVID epidemic, such as filling in travel forms upon arrival from an infectious country, self-insulation obligations, in some cases also the obligation to wear a mask in public indoors, other personal protective equipment or to provide evidence of health status. Also [one possible measure] is, for example, a test that can still be abandoned or refused, but then the alternative is a so-called movement restriction. It is also important that restrictions on both movement and activity are respected, which may be all, as has been said, imposed where necessary. Differences can still be made, for example due to age, family and educational needs, etc. Again, what we have done now, perhaps children often have not been subject to the same requirements as I think is reasonable. And, for example, in the provision of special education in the social field, in providing education for children with special needs, it is important to maintain a more lenient regime. As I described, there is a great deal, one can say, in essence, of this draft law drawn up on the basis of the lessons learned from the current pandemic and taken over from it. The clear principle is that the law and regulations contain the specific measures and rules that the government can lay down. It is then possible for the Chancellor of Justice, for example, to assess whether a specific government regulation meets all legal requirements. It is also news that if the government decides to introduce some measures that are not directly listed in the draft, but which are also essential to control the spread of a particularly dangerous or dangerous communicable disease, the positions of the Parliament's sectoral committee must be heard and the Riigikogu's Executive Board informed before the adoption of this regulation. It is a similar consultation scheme that is being used today in other areas, such as the appointment of heads of security agencies or the handling of European Union affairs. The involvement of the Riigikogu in the discussions will therefore lead to a more in-depth debate on the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in the future, when, as I referred to, there is a need for any other measures that have not previously been approved at the level of a separate law. The draft also provides for minor clarifications, such as the provisions specifying the processing of personal data, which are already under European Union law, but we will bring them out again, just in case of clarity. Similarly, [we provide] for temporary restrictions on the activities of the head of the educational institution, child care establishment or social services establishment on its premises, in coordination with the [limit] body keeper and the Health Board. Here is another concrete example: if there is a rapidly spreading infection in a school or other educational establishment, it is understandable that it is not reasonable for the school to wait for the guidelines of the government, but [he immediately] responds, if necessary, by coordinating its activities with the Regional Office of the Health Board. It is also foreseen that, if the situation requires a rapid response, government regulations can be put into effect more quickly. As I referred to earlier, the law on the state border will change. These changes also relate to the control of the spread of a particularly dangerous and dangerous communicable disease and are based on the fact that restrictions adopted and maintained at the beginning of the COVID-19 epidemic may not be temporary in some places, but still need to be implemented in the future. Thus, the Government of the Republic may introduce a regulation to control the epidemic spread of a particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious disease, such as when crossing the external border, where this is strictly necessary, and require persons to provide either a certificate of health status or a test before crossing the border. These are, once again, the things that we have implemented in this pandemic, both during the previous government and during the current government. As is the case today, the requirements for crossing the external border cannot be imposed on an Estonian citizen or a person enjoying the right of residence in Estonia, on a straight line to a descending or ascending relative, on a spouse or on a person enjoying the right of free movement under European Union law. It is the same logic that your people must always be allowed to come home, even when they come from an infectious area. In addition, a temporary country-specific rule is provided for, for example, to temporarily limit the entry of foreign persons into Estonia if there is an outbreak of a new, particularly dangerous or dangerous infectious disease. The amendments proposed by the State Gazette Act are purely aimed at enabling urgent regulations to be published at a faster pace. With regard to this draft, no additional expenditure on the state budget is planned and the law is planned to enter into force in general, subject to Parliament's approval. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U652	There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U653	Thank you, Mr President. Terrorists use the term "dirty bomb," which makes a small bang, but radioactively pollutes a large area for a thousand years. I have noticed that if you show up in this hall with a bill, you will always have a suitcase of such a dirty bomb that you are trying to detonate through Parliament. Today is no different from [the former], no difference. On this draft, both the Estonian Medical Association and the legal scientists have said that it is not, in summary, justified and appropriate to extend the definition of a dangerous disease to a large extent and to grant [the right] to the government or agencies to decide on the fundamental rights of people, which is why the draft is neither compatible with the Constitution nor justified in this form. How do you comment on the opinion of legal scientists?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U654	Thank you for a very colorful introduction. Somehow I'm not surprised. But the Estonian Medical Association certainly has not expressed that position, as you have just given them. You were referring to another organisation or group. Various legal experts have also been consulted throughout the drafting process, such as the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Of course, the Constitution must be monitored in accordance with the procedures in force; it must be assessed by Parliament, later also by the President of the Republic, if necessary by the Chancellor of Justice. I'm sure they will. Our best assessment of the law, the coordination with the various parties involved, shows that there is nothing unconstitutional here. In some ways, it can be said that it is unconstitutional or contrary to the point of the Constitution that a state does not react in the event of a pandemic, leaves its people in the cold and looks at how the pandemic goes spontaneously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U655	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U656	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The introduction of the draft act has highlighted, and you yourself mentioned it as a matter of priority, that one of the objectives of this draft is to give the Riigikogu a greater role in resolving crises. I examined the entire draft and found only those sentences that mentioned the Riigikogu: the position of the Parliament's sectoral committee should be heard and the Riigikogu's management should be informed in the future. The Commission, in this case the Committee on Social Affairs, has ten members and has three members on the Bureau. That makes 13 people, but there are 101 people in the Riigikogu. I now have a question as to why the government has missed the Riigikogu. Why do you serve this thing by building it wrong, giving the impression that the Riigikogu has a large role to play, even though most of the Riigikogu has been excluded? If you subtract 13 people from 101, this is not the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U657	Yes, Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. After all, this debate is already a greater involvement of Parliament in the adoption of this [draft] law requires Parliament's approval. Both the previous government and the current government have put in place these decisions without Parliament's approval, without listening to Parliament. It's a fundamental difference. If Parliament approves the specific measures proposed in this bill, then Parliament has made its assessment of the legal limits within which the Government of the Republic and the Health Board may operate. And if it is necessary to go beyond these limits, then the involvement of your [signed] Riigikogu commission will really come into play. It may be the Committee on Social Affairs or the Committee on Legal Affairs on another matter, perhaps the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is already subject to a specific measure. That is the basic logic why I think it is reasonable for Parliament to be involved in this process and to discuss what should be the package of measures to control communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U658	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U659	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The role of the Riigikogu is spoken of here in such a key that it will be bigger. But I see that the Riigikogu is actually intended to [include] at present only in order to stamp this bill, which, with the hands of the parliament, seeks to give the government unlimited right by any means whatsoever to impose a full dictatorship by referring to the COVID. After all, the essence of this draft is that the COVID is embodied, and the objective also says that the corona virus is not going anywhere. Are you really saying that we are going to live in a permanent health dictatorship, where the law deprives people of all their constitutional rights, if the government so wishes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U660	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. As I have said in the past, the aim is certainly that such measures should no longer be imposed in the case of coronavirus. Vaccination, including the timely delivery of an effective dose, will best contribute to this. However, as shown by the emergence of the corona virus and the very rapid arrival in Estonia, we must be prepared for similar pandemics to come, either [caused] by a new mutation of the corona virus, a sub-variant or a new strain or some other novel infectious disease. It is precisely in order for the government to react more clearly in this situation that it is necessary to agree on these frameworks in the past. That's why we're here with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U661	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U662	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Here is the most interesting discussion or comments made by the Supreme Court on this draft. I'm going to ask you a question like this and ask you for your answer. The Supreme Court says that priority should be given to the decision-making power of the parliament and, at the very least, of the minister responsible for the government or sector, that is to say, your decision-making power, not that of the apolitical officials, the Health Board or the headmasters of the school. The Supreme Court continues that the desire to increase the responsibility of the non-political level and to facilitate the imposition of restrictions is now underway. What do you think, Minister of Health, that the Supreme Court is saying that you should be granted the right as minister [decided]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U663	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. As I pointed out, in this case we want to take these decisions to the level of the government and [to make] the decisions of the government in turn within the framework given by the Riigikogu, in contrast to the current one, where government orders are based on individual sections of the NETS, which are very general and do not have written down, what exactly the government can do and what it must not do in the control of novel dangerous infectious diseases. In the case of education and social institutions, we really give the driver a certain power to react in line with the Health Board, precisely to protect human health. It is not conceivable that if, for example, there is some serious infection in a nursing home or childcare facility that can be potentially fatal for both children and the elderly, there will be waiting for the Government of the Republic to gather and take some decisions, when it is actually known that the new virus has come from somewhere at risk, for example, and there is a need to react quickly to protect human health. These are exceptional cases; they are certainly not standards. And, as I referred to in the case of the Health Board, in a similar situation, the Health Board has the right to introduce a quarantine for 30 days, not longer, precisely in order to have a general framework at the government level. The idea that the Minister of Health could take more of these decisions? I think that, in this case, it is precisely the wider scope of the government, which looks at health, finance, economics, entrepreneurship, the justice side and everything else, that is more sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U664	Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U665	Thank you very much, Mr President, for being such a rag at such a late hour. Minister, thank you very much. NGO United Medics and Researchers have sent a referral to the members of the Riigikogu, probably also to you, regarding their concerns regarding the processing of this NETS. One point they have pointed out is that the development of NETS requires a high level of expertise in epidemiology, philology, infectious diseases and microbiology. They have proposed that a working group be convened on this subject, where representatives, politicians and experts from different political parties would be equally, proportionally represented. This law should be taken calmly again on the table, rather than being dealt with in haste. Then why are we processing it in a hurry? Why haven't you taken this task force together and taken your time to do the right thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U666	Good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. There's nothing born here in a hurry. These changes have been discussed at a very long time, but, and for months, with different ministries, with different bodies in different fields, involving specifically experts and people in the field of virology and epidemiology, both through the Health Board and other health institutions. And now we are in Parliament, which, in the same way, must participate in this procedure. In this case, this is a first reading, followed by the following readings and hearings, perhaps in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is certainly only reasonable that the Committee on Social Affairs should also involve health representatives, legal people and researchers in this debate. I am not sure whether the association you referred to is the most representative on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U667	Anneli Ott.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U668	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Exciting, exciting. I have this kind of question: why is there 30 days in this bill, such an unreasonable time, marked as a quarantine requirement, even in the event of suspicion of a disease? You claim that this bill has been drawn up on the basis of the current COVID experience. We had a ten-day quarantine for COVID, which the Health Board, if I am not mistaken, pointed out at the beginning of August or September that seven days were actually enough. The government did not consider that possible. But now it's 30 days and only in case of suspicion of a disease. Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U669	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. This 30-day period is not the duration of quarantine or self-insulation in this case. This is the period during which the Health Board may take decisions if the government itself has not made them before. For example, there will be a new dangerous infectious disease, it will be discovered by someone. The Health Board reacts and imposes on those people who have been exposed to the infected person, perhaps a seven-day obligation, but perhaps a ten-day obligation to be self-insulated, perhaps to avoid contact with others. The point is that the Health Board can only give orders for up to 30 days. During this period, the government must, in any case, gather and agree on the rules, for example, for the organisation of self-insulation or quarantine, for people who are infected or who are in contact with an infectious disease. It is very possible that a person must be [in quarantine or self-insulation] for seven to ten days, perhaps five days, depending on an infectious disease. The idea of 30 days is precisely that there should be no moment for the government to distance itself from decision-making and that the Health Board alone should organise an epidemic response so extensively.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U670	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U671	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's an interesting-interesting bill. Every spring, when we start a period of respiratory disease, we can make any joke. A little discussion would be given about this increase in the competence of the Riigikogu. I understood from what you said that it is actually your wish to give the government a stronger competence and that the government can act in accordance with the prescribed framework of the Riigikogu. But the framework given by the Riigikogu comes from the committee and the competences conferred on the committee, as I understand it, is a hearing. Or what is the Commission's competence? Can it be understood that if the Commission tells the government that no mask will come, then the government will listen and the mask will not come? Or what is the competence of the committee as the competence of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U672	Thank you, good questioner! As I pointed out, in fact, the current government and the previous government also acted in a very unclear legal space, i.e. on the basis of the individual sections of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, sometimes also under the State Border Act, without a clear parliamentary mandate, which rules can and must not be imposed. In the future, when Parliament adopts this draft as a law, this framework will become considerably clearer and also more limited. If there really is a need to take other decisions that are not specifically stated in the law, the Commission's approval or hearing will be a prerequisite for doing so. They are not of the same logic as for the heads of security authorities and for European Union affairs. Indeed, the Golden Rule is that if the Commission does not approve or oppose these [decisions], the government will go back and think more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U673	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U674	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, think that this law is a little bit of an excessive rush stamp. There is a great deal of uncertainty in this law. "Dangerous', "particularly dangerous', "suspected', all of them are undefined, without more specific criteria. For example, is a severe cold particularly dangerous or dangerous? Or how will this special situation be defined? The rules are really messy. How is it possible to introduce such a law, to impose restrictions? Isn't that a little too much? Finally, it leads to an official's or agency's discretion, just as somebody's thinking comes, we impose restrictions, and then we punish them immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U675	Good questioner, thank you! However, if you compare the law in force and the law we have proposed[the bill], the [regulation] will become clearer. Perhaps, as I referred to earlier, there is now an incentive for indirect paragraphs which provide an opportunity to impose measures without specifying which measures, for which time, in what extent and in which case. These terms, which relate to a particularly dangerous infectious disease, are a specific list provided by law [in the draft]. At present, there is a "new, dangerous infectious disease" in the law, something similar to what has not yet been identified and identified. The current proposal is indeed to use the term 'dangerous infectious disease' instead of 'news', which meets specific, specific criteria. It certainly does not include a cold and, as I referred to earlier, it does not include a flu virus as a known virus. These include situations where, for example, a new infectious disease is detected or an infectious disease already known in the world, which has the ability to spread rapidly and extensively, the course of which may be difficult and which bring about a health emergency or its threat. The health emergency and its risk are defined separately in [the bill], which assumes that, for example, in a given region, there is a problem with the capacity to provide emergency assistance. These are not such abstract concepts, but they are actually defined, legally defined, in the field of health. The emergence of or the risk of such a situation must be a prerequisite for any restrictions to be imposed at government level. At present, there is no such direct reference to the law, so that, by that point, the law becomes even stricter. In particular, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, for example, was also discussed in order to make it clear when the government has a reason to react and when it does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U676	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U677	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You also remember very well when you went to our board before you started drafting this bill and explained to us how you intend to increase the role and role of the Riigikogu in this whole process. You promised to bring this bill back to you before it went to the coordination ring. But nothing like this has happened. We see the opposite: you have completely rejected the Riigikogu. They only want a position and they want to inform the Bureau, inform the Bureau. All the talk you have told us, which we have approved and supported, that it is precisely the Riigikogu that is the body that has to make such very important decisions, that is not the case. Why did you lie to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U678	Good questioner, thank you for your question. I still remember when we met. I really had meetings with five political groups at the time, and the feedback from the various groups was different in content. The understanding of how great the role of the government should be, for example, how great the role of Parliament should be, what the role of the Health Board should be, was different. And what, as is always the draft law, is a compromise between these different views and our proposal on how, on the one hand, to involve Parliament in certain cases and, on the other hand, to maintain today's operational decision-making option when the situation demands it. But today we are here at first reading, and this is the place and role of Parliament to discuss exactly what the wording of this law should be and the distribution of tasks and the balance of roles of the Riigikogu, the Government and the Health Board. As you well know, Parliament will always be able to amend the laws adopted if, according to Parliament, they prove unreasonable, inaccurate, inadequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U679	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U680	Thank you, Mr President. When I told you earlier about the dirty bomb you were carrying in this hall, you were smiling ironically. But I listened to your speech and you made it very clear: maybe some dangerous infectious disease will appear. Where's it coming from? In your drawer? Or have you acquired Igor Mang's status? Now, if you get any serious, the point is that the definition of a dangerous infectious disease is to be changed. What matters is what is considered a dangerous disease. An infection that spreads quickly but does not lead to serious illness is considered dangerous according to the bill. This is not justified and what is decided on is still undefined. The wording thus resolved is absolutely unconstitutional. Why haven't you signed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U681	Thank you. Of course, you have to talk seriously, not humor. But I will specify your previous speech, which I am sure has arrived in the minutes. I reviewed, the Doctors' Association has given feedback and said that it supports [the draft] and agrees with these legislative changes. He has not revealed the dangers that you claimed he had done. As far as this wording is concerned, as I said, on the contrary, if you take the bill, you will see that it has been written more clearly than today. At present, the law lists particularly dangerous infectious diseases; there are specific examples that are intended. And there are new, dangerous infectious diseases that meet these characteristics, as well as those that may not be effectively treated or spread beyond the medical capacity of hospitals. Now, in this bill, we bring out both those [diseases] that are already known and the potential new [diseases] for the term "dangerous infectious disease." The history of the world has shown that no virus will be the last and, unfortunately, the viruses will be born in this world more than we like. They were before humans, they'd still be after people on this earth. As a result of whether or not this particular virus may cause an emergency in the field of health or its threat and responds to all of these previously described features, the government will have the opportunity to introduce these measures. [It is not done] in an empty space.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U682	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U683	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! You have said here several times that there is an unclear legal situation and that is why a legislative amendment is needed. There is no unclear [legal] situation, but there is a clear violation by the government for a long time. As a result, the government and its decisions have been sued in dozens of cases. The indication that the previous government did not behave like this was not the case. The previous government introduced an emergency situation or an emergency situation which substantially changed the legislative framework. The previous government did not impose [mask duty]! Despite having a much higher mandate due to the exceptional circumstances, he did not impose a masking obligation, did not carry out compulsory vaccination, he did not deal with the disbanding of people during protests. The previous government acted differently, the handwriting was quite different. The reasons for today's amendment to the Nets are that we will clarify the situation. In fact, there is only one major objective of this bill: to legitimise the acts that have been committed for a long time. That's the point. And that's what we've read out of here many times. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U684	Thank you, good questioner! As I pointed out, both governments have put in place different arrangements, both during an emergency period, which was a very short period, as you will remember, as well as during a normal situation or during an emergency in the health sector view of preventing the spread of the virus. Of course, we can begin to appreciate them one by one if you want what was reasonable and what was not. I guess they depend on the evaluator and their necessity is reflected in the retrospect. But when it comes to litigation and the legal situation, there are really different disputes right now. It is reasonable and right, the rule of law must be so. Until now, the courts have still considered it justified to impose general arrangements, as they are always time-limited, regularly reviewed, every two weeks. But the courts have specifically pointed out that these government orders cannot remain in force forever. I fully agree with that, and that is why I am here today with this bill, knowing in advance that it will not find a general euphoric reception here. But it makes more sense at Parliament level, at the legislative level, to fix what is allowed and what is not allowed and to be delivered on this basis. As you have seen both in the current situation and in previous waves, if the situation no longer requires [strict restrictions], then relief decisions must be made and the government has made them in a row. From now on, it will also be legally more clear in this view that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, for example, cannot intervene, cannot challenge these orders, but must be done by a specific subject. From now on, the Chancellor of Justice will also be able to assess the regulations of the Government, their legal competence and functioning, and to ensure that they are precisely in accordance with the law and the constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U685	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U686	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! However, I can see very clearly that one of the aims of this draft, a very clear objective, is to perpetuate COVID. The whole fat [explanatory note] is only talking about COVID, isn't it? For fashion, right, we are talking about some other diseases here, but in fact, we are only talking about COVID and all the associated restrictions, all kinds of regulations. I'm just asking why you need all this. What's your problem, people? Are you some hidden sadists who enjoy humiliating and bullying people and imposing restrictions? I say that even in Soviet times there were very insane infectious diseases, but even then there was no such law, no such opportunities were used. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U687	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for the questions! Let's start from the beginning. This law [the draft] does not deal with COVID, but deals with dangerous infectious diseases, deals with different options. It is natural that the explanatory memorandum also describes this pandemic. It would be strange if it were ignored in the explanatory memorandum. Then you'd ask me what's going on, there's no mention of COVID in the explanatory memorandum, no idea of why we're here at all with this [draft]. Like any other crisis, this crisis has shown the places that we need to be legally specified, to be clear. And our proposal is to do it here. Compare the activities of the Republic of Estonia in combating the pandemic with those of the Soviet Union [at the time], it must be a pretty good fantasy. Indeed, during the Soviet era there were a lot of dangerous infectious diseases, there were very many pandemics, there were quite another infant mortality rates, and other overall mortality rates. If we miss these times and we miss the solutions then... I don't miss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U688	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U689	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read here the text of [the bill] that the name, surname, personal identification number or date of birth of an infected person and sometimes contacts are transmitted to identify the person. We've already seen the Health Board start making its own police state, acting like a police officer. The word "Identifying a person" is a term used by the criminal police in surveillance activities. I now see that you are very on your way there and are beginning to introduce this law more forcefully into the police state, you are starting to create a surveillance society, because from what I read, the [infectious] must be reported. Please explain to me who the law is for. Is it to satisfy a power complex or just to enjoy the repression of people? Explain it to me, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U690	Thank you, good questioner! As recent years have shown, during a pandemic, the control of the virus is important, on the one hand through testing, through various measures, through the introduction of rules and recommendations, and, of course, through the protection of human health through vaccination. The fact that in certain cases it is necessary to find out the close contacts of some people, or indeed the data of an infected person, is necessary to identify the persons who have come into contact with them, is what the Health Board must do under law. That's what he's doing today, that's not new. The role of the Health Board is to contribute to the control of viruses and infectious diseases. The identification of specific close contacts is also important for the protection of their own lives and health, and they learn that at that time and during that time they may have been in contact or have been in contact with a person carrying a dangerous virus, a dangerous infectious disease, and therefore it is worth monitoring their health and remaining self-awareness, testing themselves if necessary, and getting medical attention at the right time. All these rules, measures, guidelines and bodies aim to protect people's life and health. The fact that you see a lot of other things and all kinds of ghosts there is relatively incomprehensible in the health field view.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U691	A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U692	Yeah. May I ask the President-in-Office to make a note to the Minister that he does not pick his phone all the time because it offends the questioners. And if he pecks it out to get some answers or additional information from his advisors, it's just that he's not competent to present us with this bill right now. So I have a request for him to stop picking that phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U693	Thank you. I never realized it, I can't even see him looking at the phone. But if he did, [I didn't realize] that it was somehow interfering with the answer. Sometimes there's more information. I certainly don't see that looking at your phone in any way would make your answer worse, but it's more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U694	It's a tablet, and here I have a memo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U695	Oh, he's watching the memo! It's an environmentally friendly approach, I understand you're not printing out the papers. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U696	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The Supreme Court has repeatedly said that this bill would require a critical debate in Parliament and that Parliament should retain a much greater right. But I ask how you feel about the Supreme Court saying that it is doubtful whether in a democratic society a state must protect a person from the consequences of its own choices. What do you think of that? Does the Supreme Court fail or does your ministry fail?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U697	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, for the last three quarters of an hour, it can be said that the same critical debate requested by the Supreme Court is currently underway, so that the first objective is met. This will continue in the Committee on Social Affairs, and will continue in the following procedures. It is up to the Riigikogu itself to decide which time frame will be in the process of processing this bill. Now, whether a person has to be protected from his own or from his dangerous activities. In fact, the country is doing it today. We don't allow a driver to drive a person who doesn't have a driver's license and we'll remove him from the wheel if he gets caught. For example, we do not allow a person who has been drinking alcohol to drive a vehicle because he threatens himself or others. I guess that makes the same sense. For example, isolation of an infectious person may be necessary to protect its own health, but also to protect the health of others, in order to prevent new pandemics, fires and the death of people, which we have unfortunately seen considerably more during this pandemic than is the normal mortality rate in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U698	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U699	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let us now look at the latest experience we have had in this last crisis. There was a situation here that, when it was necessary to help society overcome or overcome this crisis, the government did not declare either an emergency or an emergency situation, but operated on the concept of "essential emergency." Substantial medical emergency, substantive threat to constitutional order. In light of this, armed policemen were brought out who had the Health Board label on their stomachs and who had to go around people and scare them. The question is whether this existing draft will allow such a legal nihilism to be prevented and will enable people to be reassured that such a strange, substantive emergency will no longer come. Is this thing specific and understandable now? Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U700	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I think that this [question] is well-founded. However, the imposition of an emergency situation is always such a discretion. The law does not state the situation in which the government must impose an emergency situation, but provides an opportunity to do so in certain cases. As far as I am aware, correct me if I am wrong about the decision of the previous government to impose a special situation, which was on 12 March 2020, was the first time that this opportunity has been used in Estonia. Perhaps normally, in other crises and situations, this measure has not been introduced. The fact that the current government has not done so has been a reverse decision, since we have had more knowledge of this virus, there have been more personal protective equipment, medicines, vaccines and other ways of preventing the spread of the virus. But it certainly cannot be ruled out that in the future, due to another pandemic or other crisis, there will be a situation in which some future government will once again impose an emergency situation in Estonia. In turn, then, it is up to lawyers to assess whether this was justified or not, and [consider] in which cases the special situation must be brought to an end, in fact it is also precisely defined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U701	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U702	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm worried about the same thing all the time. This means that we have established a democratic rule of law, we try to ensure the best for our citizens, and we also respect and have a good view of each other at the level of law and at the level of society as a whole. In the context of these laws, we always impose such, how to say, totalitarian standards in our society, and that means that we give certain officials the right to procedures that harass people. Who will control these controllers, and how will we finally get to the point of not having such a totalitarian state in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U703	Good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questions. Firstly, I do not agree that we are moving towards a totalitarian state. Absolutely not! The Estonian people's circumstances have been relatively free throughout this pandemic. These measures have been adopted by both the previous and the current governments, in their time, very lenient in comparison with most European countries and many other countries in the world. The fact that we are also coming out of these [restrictions] shows that no one has any intention of keeping these rules and standards longer than is necessary to prevent the disease and the virus. Control mechanisms are also in place today; people can challenge these decisions. And, as I described, in the future, if [the imposition of restrictions] will be at the level of a government regulation, the Chancellor of Justice is the institution that assesses their compliance with the law, the constitutionality, will make its own proposals, for example, on changes, if necessary, and if [the proposed amendments] are not made, he will be able to turn to the Supreme Court. So these mechanisms are all there in Estonia. The rule of law is pretty strong, and I'd say it's working.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U704	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U705	Thank you. I'm still asking you the same question I asked you last time. You spoke to us and promised that the role of the Riigikogu would increase in this whole process. A little while ago, however, you said that the aim is to increase the role and decision-making powers of the government. And now that I read the explanatory memorandum to this draft, it is stated here that the primary aim is to make legal changes so that decisions relating to the epidemic are more predictable and transparent and the Riigikogu has a greater role to play in resolving the crisis. All but one lie on the other side, except what you said about the government, yes, yes, they actually get into the role. You got caught, in a word. I'm still asking you again, why do you lie all the time? You lied to us on the group's board, and the explanatory statement is also a lie.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U706	Thank you, good questioner! No, I'm not lying, but thank you for this inappropriate accusation. As I already described when I answered your previous question, I met representatives of the five groups and received feedback, which was, in some cases, even in the opposite direction. There were groups, such as your group, which proposed to increase the role of Parliament. I myself, rather, believe that Parliament's role should increase compared to today, which is actually happening with this draft. True, not as much as you proposed. There were groups who thought that this level of decision-making should remain purely government. And there were also those who saw that the Riigikogu commission could really be such an interim phase or an evaluator, because it might not make sense to convene Parliament's plenary. Finally, it is, of course, Parliament's own decision on the solution that it chooses from these possibilities. This [draft] does not increase the role of the government, as I have pointed out. The government has today relied on this same law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. These rules have been made on the basis of general instructions. So far, on the contrary, it can be said that the government has, like, blankoveks, such that it chooses what it does. There are no instructions anywhere that you can't do, that you can't do. By adopting this law, the Riigikogu provides a clear framework within which the government can choose which measures are necessary to control this particular dangerous infectious disease. And if he wants to take any measures that are not included in the version adopted by the parliament of this law, he must appeal to the committee of the Riigikogu for approval. So, in this light, the role of the government can rather be more clearly defined and, in certain cases, Parliament can also make its own assessments. As I said before, specifically, about the accusation that the authorities were going to decide before: the decision-making point can be the government, not the Health Board, for example, rather than some sort of law enforcement body. That was the logic to which I referred that we are not pushing this level, as was said here before, to some official level, somewhere below hiding, but that we are precisely leaving it at the level of the government within the framework set by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U707	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U708	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would say to all of this that we have very different understandings of truth and lies, lying and telling the truth. But if I went to the question, I would say that this whole bill is insulting and humiliating to any free citizen. This bill is insulting and humiliating to every free citizen without exception. It consists of punishing, threatening, imposing restrictions, increasing the arbitrariness of officials and so on. And here comes my question. Tanel, I know you, you're an intelligent young man. Whose puppet are you playing here? As a puppet of the European Commission, a puppet of officials, a puppet of the Reform Party? There's no way you don't understand what a horrible thing that you've brought us on this table.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U709	Good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question and assessment! This specific law is indeed a law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, and as it sounds, it is not a law that, I do not know, offers people flowers and strawberries. It is intended to respond at government or any other national level during pandemics to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. The previous law [the draft] that I described spoke about how to support healthcare providers, support patients, but in this case we are talking about so-called supervision. And that is why, indeed, this law [the draft], as you rightly described, refers to various measures, sanctions. Discussions on this law have been very long, lasting for several months. It has been my view from the outset that we should not go beyond the decisions taken today, the measures taken today. That's not what this bill does. Of course, there are always people and institutions who would prefer to expand the law, to expand it, to bring in new dimensions, to bring in dimensions. Parliament will always be able to do so. But it has been my wish that we stick to the arrangements that have been in place so far. A simple example: we do not go to people's private premises by any decision; we stick to public spaces; we do not introduce any new measures at the level of the law as measures that have already been taken during the pandemic. This is, in many respects, the transfer of the legal space of [the present] pandemic experience. As a puppet, I do not feel myself in this process because there have been quite decent disputes between the various parties in order to come to Parliament with such a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U710	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U711	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here's the question. After all, this bill has for quite a long time shown that it causes tensions in society, distrust between people and distrust of public authorities as well. I'd like to ask you about the timing. At this point in time, this background war has perhaps brought events in Ukraine, this bloody war, and this assault to the fore in the minds of the people. But this mistrust and these concerns about this subject of the [draft] have not disappeared, and I am sure that, as the situation changes, they will at one point reappear. Why was it not possible to wait a little longer or to involve all stakeholders more closely?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U712	Good questioner, thank you! I agree with this assessment that this time is not in any sense peaceful or in any way quiet. There are many tensions in society, and the role of all parliamentary parties, like everyone's role, is to mitigate these tensions, not to create more. I believe that we are all trying to do this together. However, this particular draft was initiated by the government before Russia's latest military aggression began, before Putin's attacks on the anniversary of our republic. The draft was initiated before that, and this whole process, or the development process, was also carried out before, as a result of the experience with the pandemic. The fact that it is now before Parliament has been a proposal from Parliament's committee and the Bureau to discuss it here today. As I referred to earlier, the first reading is now. It is up to Parliament to decide what will be the future framework of time, the changes, their debate. With the crisis, it is just a problem just that I believe that you agree with me, that we really do not know exactly what the situation is in the autumn. Both I and, I believe, your entire group and all the rest of the parliamentary groups hope that we will no longer need to impose any such large-scale restrictions on the control of the corona virus and that no new infectious disease, especially a dangerous infectious disease, will now appear during the summer, and that in autumn and winter we will be able to live as normal a peaceful life as possible as we are now in the spring when we are gradually getting out of the restrictions. But we have to be ready for the black script. If we are in a situation where, for example, there is a new mutation in this corona virus or a new dangerous infectious disease, Parliament is asking me that, Mr Minister for Health, why did you not bring the necessary legislative changes before Parliament in the spring when you had this opportunity. So that's why they're here in front of you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U713	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U714	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have said today in response to Parliament that it is very nice that there is a debate on this draft and that Parliament will decide what will happen. We all know that when the coalition puts the roller on full speed, there's really nothing to discuss. I'd like to know what you'd be willing to take back on this bill. For example, do you see, as a minister, that it would be possible to take out the most of these questions, to take something back from this bill? Or is it just such a beautiful story that Parliament will decide and discuss? As minister, do you also see places where you can meet [Parliament]? In today's debate, a wide range of issues have been raised. Are you ready to take a step back?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U715	Thank you for your question, good member of the Riigikogu. Well, then, concrete proposals must be formulated so that they can be assessed. Maybe if... [[A voice from the hall.]] No, seriously. If the proposal is... I'm sorry, a member of your own group [said that] I brought before you what the word was, a dirty bomb. So what do I do about it? Shall I say awful, and take the blame? In this case, if there are any specific points, measures, provisions, the question of Parliament's role over all of them, I am prepared to debate. And we have not come either on the road or on the fast track, but rather on the contrary, this process has taken quite a long time, these negotiations, the discussions and now the procedure. As I have pointed out, the pace ahead will depend on Parliament's own choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U716	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U717	Thank you. I can assure you that there will certainly be proposals. Amendments are coming up pretty well. Before you said that the rule of law was pretty strong in Estonia. Well, if you look at the last year, I'd say that things in Estonia with the rule of law are pretty messy. We've sued the government repeatedly and repeatedly. We have seen that even without any authority, without the authority of the law and without the authority of the government, we still have both the Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, with relatively impunity, rioting at the MEM Café and taking away cello players and milk-manners. People have been fired from the militia and the police, and they've been beaten up in court in the framework of first law enforcement. The Supreme Court has destroyed this bill. After all, we, too, have been suing the actions of the government, but for seven months no procedural decision has come from the court. Where is this rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U718	Thank you, good questioner! As you have pointed out, the legal system has already made different decisions, which shows the functioning of the rule of law. If there is a situation in which courts judge, the law enforcement authorities assess that there has been a breach of a reasonable limit or that limit is questionable, the relevant decisions shall be taken, and the initial legal protection shall be granted. In a situation where government action is assessed as necessary and justified, decisions are reversed. It sounded over from your own question, too. On the one hand, you say that the Supreme Court has given its opinion, which according to your description has been destructive. On the other hand, in the case of the same judicial system, you say that he will not deal with your complaint quickly enough. This, too, shows, in fact, that, as a result, the judicial system and the rule of law are not in any way tilted, if they dare to make and correctly do their own assessments and explanations, to submit proposals in the process and, if necessary, to make decisions. The time when the court will decide on your particular complaint, I really cannot or will not be directed in the slightest way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U719	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U720	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Hää! You referred here to an incorrect comparison with the time of the Russian occupation. I can tell you, alive during the Russian occupation, that at that time very effective measures were taken, limited and necessary measures to control all kinds of infections, but there were, of course, no Nazi powers such as those contained in the law. You know very well what this bill will bring to the Riigikogu. Martin already hinted at it. This morning, by the way, there were already a dozen protesters against this very law in front of the castle. My question is: have you discussed in the government that you are pushing this law through a vote of confidence in the government? Or do you prefer any other parliamentary struggle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U721	Thank you. Well, I guess we disagree on this Soviet era. We can later exchange ideas or materials about how different infectious diseases were reacted during the Soviet Union and what measures were taken. But okay. The procedure of this particular draft law is still intended to take place in the normal parliamentary form. Of course, it is not possible for me, as one of the 15 members of the government, to say whether or not there is a need or a proposal to link this draft to a vote of confidence. I hope it doesn't. I think it is reasonable to discuss these matters with Parliament and to make the necessary changes. The chairman of your group, the chairman of the party, has already promised that these changes will come. Well, then we can discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U722	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U723	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Can you tell us whether our friendly and loving neighbouring countries, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, have done something like this, passed a law hostile to their people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U724	Thank you, good questioner! The laws hostile to my people, I hope, are not passed by democratic countries. The Baltic States have indeed made various legislative changes. I know that Latvia has a separate, specifically COVID-19 law since the beginning. We have not gone this way, we have gone the way of general government, the law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases has been amended, but there has been no separate law. Finland also has its own parliamentary logic, and there have been debates, certain proposals have been approved by Parliament, certain [proposals] not, which I think is normal. I am least familiar with the Lithuanian legislative party, although I often communicate with the Lithuanian Minister for Health. If we look at measures purely, it can be said that Estonia has been such an intermediate in terms of the Nordic and Baltic countries. The Nordic countries have had more faith in recommendations than faith in rules. Both of our Baltic neighbours have been clearly stricter than Estonia on their rules and their measures, both in organising vaccinations, in carrying out various other restrictions up to the curfew. It is clear from the role of Parliament that there have been real decisions that unvaccinated persons cannot participate in Parliament's work. This is something that Estonia has never even discussed, and I think it makes sense that we have never discussed it. In this light, Estonia has certainly been more lenient in all three Baltic states.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U725	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U726	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I can't do it any other way. I have to allow myself a certain irony. I ask: Does increasing the role of the Riigikogu in the context of this bill mean that the non-vaccinated members of the Riigikogu will no longer be able to participate in the work of the Riigikogu in the future and maybe not even be able to apply to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U727	Thank you. I think it's important that we sort this out. I'm sure that doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U728	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U729	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I wasn't gonna ask, but I still have to. I do not agree with [the argument] that our legal system will work if, for example, there is no procedural decision for seven months, because two principles such as the speed of justice and its inevitability or inevitability are known to people who are familiar with the legal system. However, seven months of silence are undoubtedly not in line with this. As I go on with the previous question, I have to say, and I hope you will agree that no bill and no fight against any disease is worth risking the most important of all, this is the unity of society. It kind of reminds me of the fight with the swine plague. There was a swine plague that threatened to kill our pigs, and then the hunters were ordered to kill the pigs themselves. I hope with this law we're a little smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U730	Thank you, Member of the Riigikogu. With regard to the unity of society, I am one hundred percent of the opinion that it is certainly not worth breaking, undermining or rocking, and I hope that we are all here together in the same wave of words and deeds. As I said before, we need to prepare for crises before the crisis breaks out, as you probably know very well. The legal space must also be corrected and reviewed before we are in the middle of a pandemic peak. If we do something fast-track, overhead, then this legal quality will certainly be weaker. As far as the complaints about time against the legal system are concerned, I will say once again that the Minister of Health does not and must not have any opportunity in Estonia to influence these processes in any way, so I do not know how to make an assessment. You can certainly contact [the court] if necessary and ask for feedback on your complaints.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U731	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U732	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! We have now been fighting the virus for two years and the University of Johns Hopkins is one of the institutions that has been seriously involved in this matter. They have maintained a site where the spread and development of this virus have always been in real time before their eyes, and they have also carried out a number of studies on restrictions. One of the most recent important [conclusions] they have reached [is]: the meta-analysis concludes that movement restrictions have had less or no impact on public health, but they have caused huge economic and social costs where they have been imposed. Therefore, movement restrictions policy is unfounded and should be rejected as an instrument of pandemic policy. I ask whether or not these [these] amendments to the law take these principles into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U733	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. We certainly take international experience into account. I also very much believe that such extreme measures, which the Estonian state has never used, are not adequate. I have also read with amazement myself when a curfew or a masking requirement has been introduced in some country, or some other rule of this kind, the benefits of which are, to put it mildly questionable. The Estonian state has avoided them both during the previous and the current government, and I think we have done the right thing. The fact that we have had restrictions on the number of participants and other such rules, for example, when visiting institutions is quite different. We have not, particularly during the last waves, sent children, for example, to schools for distance training, but we have allowed school to go regardless of vaccination, recommending it to everyone, but not forcing anyone to do so. We have been relatively balanced and reasonable, and so do our growth figures. All in all, the Estonian economy has been hit significantly less than many other countries, and so have our unemployment figures. Both the wage compensation measure implemented at the beginning of the crisis and the [other] sensible decisions have not led to such negative social effects [the pandemic] on such a large scale. The pandemic as a whole, of course, has done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U734	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U735	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Here I read: "The Government of the Republic may, pursuant to subsection 3 of this section, impose the following measures, restrictions and requirements on a natural person. " And here's a list, a whole bunch. The fifth [point] is "the obligation to carry out a medical examination, including an analysis to detect a particularly dangerous or dangerous communicable disease'. This medical research is a pretty broad concept, actually. As the fifth paragraph also states that a person may be subject to restrictions on freedom of movement in the event of refusal to carry out a health study, please explain the term 'health study' slightly. I think this is a very general concept. What do you mean by "health check"? That raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U736	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. By health research we mean giving a test in this case, but it's hard to describe exactly what this particular way of testing is going to be, isn't it, because there are different tests? As we have seen in the current pandemic, there are mouthwashes and there are PCR tests, antigen tests. In the future, that may be the case. That's the logic. The so-called restriction on freedom of movement in the context of the [Testing] waiver has meant the same self-insulation requirement currently applied in Estonia. Logic is very simple, there is no forced vaccination or forced testing in Estonia. If a person says that he or she does not agree to take this test, even though he or she comes from a country with a higher risk of infection, he or she will remain self-insulated for either seven or ten days until it is clear that he or she does not have these symptoms, he or she does not have this disease. Then he will be able to function and deliver in a peaceful society again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U737	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U738	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. These questions are undoubtedly critical in this Chamber, but still somewhat reflect this general lack of trust in society. However, one way of overcoming this in a crisis or pandemic situation is, after all, such broader parliamentary supervision, together decision-making. So not only will the government manage the crisis, but all parliamentary parties will also be involved. Indeed, I also remember that when planning these changes, it was initially a desire to involve the Riigikogu more or to give the Riigikogu a greater role in crisis management. How would you now describe the change that has taken place in relation to this two-year-old emergency situation, when this [your proposed] legislative amendment will lead the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U739	Good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. As I have pointed out, today, the last two years, in fact, both in times of emergency and in normal times of emergency or in medical terms, governments have acted on a relatively "blank bill" basis on the basis of individual paragraphs of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and individual paragraphs of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which do not introduce any measures that are so-called prescribed. The quarantine is indeed [the law], but all the other things, such as the requirement to wear a mask, the restrictions on the number of participants and the like, have been the result of a general government arrangement. From now on, the logic is that Parliament, if it approves this draft law, will provide a possible list of measures that the government can impose itself and in which cases it will have to ask Parliament for its approval and assessment, respectively, from the Commission. This is going to be the main change and the difference. I think that it also makes [the situation] legally clearer in all respects. When you read about the media in other countries, you can see that there have been all kinds of restrictions in the world, also significantly more radical and broader than we have. By adopting this draft as a law, the government will also assess the measures that have been in place so far and which we consider reasonable, and the proposal is to include them in the law as a possible list. In turn, we signal that [certain] measures are not found there, the most radical ones that have been used in the world. The government does not even suggest that Parliament raise them as an option in law. And just as I described before and did not get tired of repeating, the goal and hope is that the measures to date, at least because of the corona virus, will no longer need to be put in place because we have enough vaccines, medicines and more knowledge about this disease. The current figures also show that in a relatively free society we are currently living in, however, we see declining trends in the incidence of infection and the burden on hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U740	Good minister, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the member of the Social Affairs Committee, Mr Luck Pillaku. Please! But before that, a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U741	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I do not know how well you are familiar with this bill, how much you have now been able to follow the questions, the Minister's answers and so on. But in the collection, this same law means a worse situation for Estonia than is currently the case in North Korea. It's obvious. Given your so-called very high status, I have a serious request for you to discuss this draft with your party, talk to the Minister. I have a serious request that this bill no longer come to this hall, otherwise there will be such an obstruction, next to which the spring obstruction will be a walk in the amusement park. I'm really asking you not to make it to this hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U742	Thank you. I guess these drafts have to go according to our rules of procedure or you'll be upset that they won't come to this hall again. And I heard a member of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, say that it can be made better, with many interesting and substantive proposals. It gives the positivity that he'll get better, slowly and slowly. But thank you, Kalle Grünthal. Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U743	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft on 14 March this year. The Commission had, of course, come to present the draft with the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs of Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour. As here, the Minister presented the draft in depth and in detail and answered the questions of the members of the Committee on Social Affairs, as was the case. The questions that were asked in the Commission were not very different from those that have sounded here in the last hour and a little after. It was asked about the role of the Riigikogu and expressed dissatisfaction [about it] that although it had been said at the time of the presentation of the draft that the role of the Riigikogu would increase, in fact it would remain at the level of the committee, or not the entire Riigikogu would be asked for an opinion. During the discussion, the Minister drew attention to the fact that most of the political groups in the Riigikogu supported the solution for involving the Commission and also explained that the reason for asking the committee for an assessment was that it is simply not realistic to start discussing each regulation separately before the Riigikogu plenary. Indeed, when there is a crisis situation, decisions are sometimes time-critical, but a little [too much] time may be taken in Riigikogu plenary. Kert Kingo raised the question, or rather expressed the view that it was a COVID-specific law, and, as an argument, added that the decisions of the government of the last two years to impose restrictions on the spread of COVID-19 were not legitimate. Minister Tanel Kiik reiterated that this is not a COVID-19 law, but that this draft concerns any future communicable diseases and pandemics. Ebe Sarapuu, Deputy Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, noted that, in the practice used to date, i.e. the government's order to impose restrictions, these cases have also reached court and the judgments have resolved the issues of primary law enforcement. The draft explanatory memorandum also contains a very detailed description of these legal proceedings and decisions. Indeed, those who are more interested can read those conclusions for themselves. The Social Affairs Committee took the following decisions: It was decided, by consensus, to propose that this draft be put on the agenda on 6 April, today to conclude the first reading, to set ten working days for the amendments and to appoint me, Mr Pillaku, as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U744	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representing the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Kert Kingo. Please! Yeah, a little extra time and eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U745	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, What made this bill necessary? In the explanatory memorandum to this draft, 13 pages are devoted only to ongoing litigation in connection with the COVID-19 restrictions imposed on the basis of government orders. Such disputes are, according to the explanatory memorandum, the courts of the Circa 50. I dare say that this figure does not reflect the actual number of protests, as collective actions have also been brought before courts, where protests by many different people against the legitimacy of the government's actions and orders are concentrated. Thus, there are, in essence, significantly more litigations on this subject. In practically all of these legal proceedings, COVID-19 disputes have so far been dealt with only as an appeal procedure, i.e. as part of a case relating to the application of the original legal protection. I would point out that the preliminary legal protection procedure does not include an assessment of the proportionality and legality of the contested orders. The courts are just starting to process this. It is interesting and as if it is a coincidence that all the courts have put pending procedures, which still require urgent legal clarity and decision. But they're not being processed, they're being shut down. The question arises as to what the courts expect. And now we have the answer. The courts expect the same NETS-2 bill number 536 which aims to regularise the existing illegal government orders and the restrictions and requirements contained in these orders. This is a noteworthy fact in the sense that there is a separation of powers in the theory of the Republic of Estonia, namely in theory. The separation of powers keeps telling us the current prime minister robotically and constantly. The Prime Minister also speaks eloquently about Estonia as a rule of law, but the reality shows that this is all in theory. The practice is that courts expect direct instructions from Stenbock's house on how to act, expect guidance from the Prime Minister and government when to deal with something and when to pause proceedings, as well as guidance on how to deal with something. I'll give you an example. According to the current law, the validity of a government order must be limited in personal, spatial or temporal terms. In the case of orders imposing restrictions on our government, the word has been "temporary." It is not surprising that, for example, the Tallinn Administrative Court has obediently furnished the government's activities as follows: The general arrangements of the Government of the Republic with which restrictions have been imposed apply nationwide, but the validity of the restrictions has been limited in time because the Government of the Republic has reviewed the restrictions periodically and either relaxed them or strengthened them. Thus, the Court itself has sought to justify the conduct of the Government. What kind of judicial independence are we talking about here? However, the Tallinn Circuit Court has found it clear in the proceedings concerning the application of the original legal protection that the measures imposed by the Government of the Republic cannot remain in force for an indefinite period or for too long. Such a view has been accepted by the courts in similar proceedings in a number of different cases. Thus, the draft explanatory memorandum states that the draft solves the current problem of whether general management as an administrative act is suitable for the introduction of long-term pandemic measures. This draft includes the legitimisation of the bottlenecks in government orders issued to impose all restrictions. According to the explanatory memorandum, it is not hidden. The Nets-2 bill is the legitimisation of government violations and hackers in order to find justifications for government action in disputes before courts. This is the understanding of the rule of law of the government led by Kaja Kallas. This draft provides for the regularisation of the certificate of medical fitness, which has so far been referred to as COVID's certificate. According to the draft, this certificate confirms the health status of the person. The aim is therefore to make public the human health data, which, quite recently, were still called sensitive personal data and which could not be owned or disclosed by anyone without the consent of the person. It will now be legally public information that will be controlled by employers and employees of cultural, entertainment, catering and other services. In addition, all the examiners of the evidence must become experts who are able to identify the authenticity of the certificate. According to this draft, the Health Board would have the right to appoint a person for up to a month, or 30 days of quarantine, or the right to take away a person's right to move freely. It also gives the right to identify a person, i.e. to monitor persons, enabling the Health Board to communicate to both legal and natural persons the identity of a person suspected of being infected: first name, surname, personal identification number or date of birth, and, where appropriate, the contact details of the person suspected of being infected or his guardian. Basically, they want to legalize surveillance activities through the NETS, which, according to the Penal Code, are illegal. § 137 of the Penal Code states that private pursuit by a person without a legislative right is to monitor a person for the purpose of collecting data on him or her. Although the initiators of the draft have claimed that this bill gives the Riigikogu a greater role in resolving crises, it is purely wrong. The draft clearly states that the position of the Parliament's sectoral committee should be heard and the Riigikogu's management should be informed. Where is the role of the Riigikogu? Listening to the position of the Riigikogu's sectoral committee is not about involving the Riigikogu. Even simply listening to the Commission's position does not oblige the government to take this position into account. Everything absurd that this bill contains, we can't even bring it out here, just doesn't have time. To sum it up. The circumstances and content of such a draft are inferior and shameful to the rule of law. This bill is a testimony to the anti-popularism and hypocrisy of today's government. Shame on them! And because of all this, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject Bill No 536. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U746	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 536 be completed. Another proposal has come, it comes from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the content is as follows: [group] proposes to reject the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 536. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I welcome all of you here in the plenary hall of the Riigikogu. Let us be more specific about one proposal. In fact, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft 536 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U747	With the result of 18 votes in favour, 45 against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. It is now that very important observations are made with regard to the lead committee. I think a lot of us are interested in that. First of all, the commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 536. The deadline for amendments shall be 21 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U748	We are moving forward to the 11th item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and veterinary law initiated by the Government of the Republic (544 SE). I ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, to wait for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U749	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to introduce another important bill. This really concerns the area of veterinary medicinal products in particular. In Estonia, medicinal products for human and veterinary use have previously been dealt with on the basis of common quality, efficacy and safety requirements, and therefore the requirements for both medicinal products have mostly been incorporated into the Product Act and the Regulations adopted on the basis thereof. In the context of this draft law, Regulation (EU) 2019/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council has been applied to veterinary medicinal products from 28 January 2022. It shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union. This directly applicable regulation places greater emphasis on better availability of veterinary medicinal products, reducing the administrative burden on marketing authorisation holders of veterinary medicinal products, supporting innovation, improving the functioning of the European Union single internal market for veterinary medicinal products, the best possible protection of human and animal health and the environment, preventing the emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in the treatment of animals and increasing competitiveness and better access to information on medicinal products. The implementation of this regulation, which is directly applicable, has been accompanied by significant changes. For example, marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products have been time-barred since 28 January of this year, as well as the possibility of a centralised marketing authorisation application has been extended, a number of variations to the terms of the marketing authorisation no longer need a separate assessment procedure leading to a reduction of the administrative burden, and the requirements for the use of non-authorised medicinal products on the basis of the so-called cascade have also changed. This is the case where a veterinary medicinal product with a marketing authorisation is not available or not available for the treatment of an animal and therefore a non-authorised medicinal product, a medicinal product for human use or a pharmacy medicinal product must be used. The pharmacovigilance of veterinary medicinal products will be based on signals from the future. This means the establishment of a Union database on veterinary medicinal products and a database on pharmacovigilance of veterinary medicinal products managed by the European Medicines Agency. Wholesale authorisations for veterinary medicinal products will be valid throughout the European Union. With regard to the implementation of this Regulation, it is necessary to amend the Pharmaceutical Law and the Veterinary Law, and these amendments are the same as those required in this draft. More specifically, the most important changes to the pharmaceutical law will be [the following]. Veterinarians no longer need to apply for a separate authorisation for the use of a non-authorised medicinal product from the Agency, thus reducing the administrative burden and is expected to accelerate the availability of veterinary medicinal products. Veterinarians and authorised pharmacists of general and veterinary pharmacy services shall also be entitled to import veterinary medicinal products from a wholesaler of veterinary medicinal products located in the European Union. In addition, small quantities of these same veterinary medicinal products may exceptionally be supplied from one veterinarian to another authorised to carry out his professional activities. The Pharmaceutical Act also amends the regulation of the Agency's fees due to changes in European Union law and clarifies and modernises the provisions on supervision and penalties. The draft also specifies the tasks of the Agency and the Agriculture and Food Administration. In turn, the Veterinary Act specifies the provisions on the suspension of the authorisation of the professional activities of the veterinarian, the duties of the veterinarian and the register of official veterinarians, which in turn relate to the requirements for the prescription, issue and use of the veterinary medicinal product. Amendments to this draft concern livestock farmers and keepers, veterinarians, farms, pharmaceutical producers, pharmaceutical wholesalers, general and veterinary pharmacies, veterinary clinics, professional and public authorities such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Agency and the Agriculture and Food Administration. This draft does not entail the creation or restructuring of new institutions or structural units. As a whole, the workload of the competent authorities can be expected to increase and to change the internal organisation and procedures of the agencies, the duties of officials and their nature. For the implementation of this Regulation, funding has been allocated to the Agency from the state budget for this year and the necessary IT development costs are planned to be covered by the budget of the Health and Welfare Information Systems Centre. I would like to thank the experts from the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Agency for their good cooperation in preparing the draft. I'll finish this and I'll be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U750	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U751	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Since this Regulation 2019/6 is binding in its entirety and directly applicable, by the way, it should be valid from 28 January, it means that we must definitely do so. But my question is, what's gonna get better when you get the veterinary medicines? Or is it just that we have to take over because it is directly applicable and binding in its entirety?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U752	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for the question. As I pointed out, this will, in particular, contribute to better availability of veterinary medicinal products, provide some opportunities to reduce administrative burdens, exceptionally also to take decisions on non-authorised veterinary medicinal products and to exchange these veterinary medicinal products in small quantities between their parties, thus ultimately contributing to animal treatment and to ensuring the availability of the best, high-quality medicinal products. You rightly said that this [Regulation] was binding in its entirety and directly applicable. That is why the Pharmaceutical Act should repeal those provisions which are actually covered by Regulation 2019/6. The question of legal clarity is, in many respects, that there should not be a situation where a person reads Estonian law and understands Estonian law in the same way, and then it turns out that there is, in fact, a regulation of the European Union that he may not have read with such care or diligence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U753	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U754	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Now let's go to the details. The Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Health of the University of Life Sciences says that, according to its direct regulation, the bird's ornamental bird must be called a bird in the future. The Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sciences of the University of Life Sciences asks who is a cage bird or a decorative bird. Does an ostrich or an emu as a pet belong to this category? And who are the aquariums? That's what the University of Life Sciences veterinary institute asks. Any fish kept in an aquarium? This is the content of this directly applicable regulation. I would also like to hear why "cage birds" are not allowed to be used and should be called ornamental birds, and the other questions the veterinary institute would like to know with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U755	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. [[Laughing.]] I must admit that your knowledge and the questions referred out go beyond my ability to provide adequate answers. If you wish, you will definitely receive feedback from the Ministry of Social Affairs on these questions. I assume that if the university referred to has asked [the Ministry] that question, it has certainly already received an answer. But if you have any interest in getting a copy of this reply or, if the answer has not yet been sent, having you included in the [addressees], I will certainly ask the officials to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U756	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U757	Minister, thank you very much. I would ask you to clarify whether this draft concerns medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products or medicated feed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U758	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. In general, this concerns in particular the availability of veterinary medicinal products. In some cases, it does also concern medicated premixes and medicated feed... [[A voice from the hall.]] As far as I know, however, he is both when we are talking, for example, about marketing authorisations, wholesale authorisations for veterinary medicinal products. Indeed, both veterinary medicinal products and medicated premixes and medicated feed are addressed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U759	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Thank you very much. Please ask Dr Hele Everausi, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U760	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good to see you! Now you can look everyone in the extra eye right now because there are not too many of us. But let's get serious, even though it's time for you to have some fun. I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs has discussed this draft on 22 March this year. We once again had Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour, who made a thorough presentation. He was supported by Madis Tõns, Adviser to the Department of Medicine of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kaili Semm, Head of the Legal Department of the Medicines Agency, who added details to the members of the Commission. Siret Kotka, the chairwoman of our committee, informed us that this draft law will be dealt with in parallel with the draft law amending the feed law to be dealt with in the Committee on Rural Affairs, 499 and it has already passed first reading. So in order for the regulation to be consistent, it would be a presumption that this draft, which is before you today, will enter into force at the same time. I have to say, there wasn't a very long discussion, there weren't many questions. I asked two questions, however, in order to clarify what has been meant by the development of innovation, which in essence means in this draft law. I also asked about solving the problem of resistance to medicines: what does it mean? Both Madis Tõns and Kail Semm answered my questions. There was no more discussion, everyone was happy with the information. And then came the decisions: to propose to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session 06.04 was the conclusion of this [today's] date, it was a consensual decision; to appoint me as the representative of the lead committee, again a consensual decision, and to propose that the first reading be completed, again a consensual statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U761	Good waitress, thank you for this excellent presentation. No questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U762	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-06_U763	Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 21 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 544 has been completed and the 11th item has also been closed. Good fellows! Our agenda today is over. Thank you for your excellent work and cooperation. I wish you a safe journey home. The sitting is adjourned.
