ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It is Tuesday, we shall begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the VII plenary session. The members of the Riigikogu are now able to deliver drafts or enquiries. Mr Helme has a procedural wish before the drafts and inquiries, or is there a desire to hand over the drafts or inquiries? You've both got your fingers up. Microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U2	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question about our procedural issues yesterday, concerning the invitation of the Prime Minister to Parliament. In the meantime, has the board had any clarity about the Prime Minister's schedule and the possibilities to appear before us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U3	I myself was in contact with the Prime Minister from the subject of yesterday's debate and, as far as I know, the President of the Riigikogu was also in contact with the Prime Minister. And we have received confirmation that on Thursday the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic has planned a longer debate on energy prices. Therefore, he cannot be before the Riigikogu on Thursday. But he will be in Question Time tomorrow, and Question Time will be able to deal with these issues, but a longer discussion by the government will be scheduled for Thursday. Mr. Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U4	Thank you, Mr President. This situation in Estonia is completely abnormal, affecting the energy crisis. And the current approach does not correspond to the interests of the Estonian public, Estonian people and Estonian entrepreneurs, how the government has dealt with it. Parliament's opposition wishes to hold an extraordinary debate with the Prime Minister on what these solutions are. The question is that we want to keep it in the House of Stenbock, not in the Estonian Parliament. And in this respect, what is not... is not a question of some kind of spite or stubbornness, but we want not to hold an Question Time because information about the real solutions has not been provided by this government, but we want to hold a parliamentary debate where the opposition is able to make its proposals and it is possible, essentially, in Parliament, to listen to the Prime Minister's approach and presentation in the crisis that has developed. The question is that the Bureau of Parliament, which organises Parliament's work, should create this format, take this proposal seriously. What have you done? When will this format take place and please do not answer that it is Question Time. This format is not sufficient in the current crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U5	Thank you. Mr Reinsalu, you should be very well aware of the house and work arrangements and these formats of what opportunities we have here to debate with the Government of the Republic or to hold discussions with the Government of the Republic, and what opportunities we have, these are set out in the Rules of Procedure. These options have been listed as a written question to a member of the government, including the Prime Minister, in questioning where the prime minister or other member of the government is here to answer you, where the debate is the greatest opportunity, Question Time. And let us not forget that, indeed, the so-called political statements that have been made in the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, they are primarily based on the possibility for members of the government to come before Parliament and not the other way around. This has been discussed several times. Yes, if a member of the government wishes to come and needs to come, he will choose this path, but in my opinion, other forms are considerably better in order to hold this debate in essence. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U6	Thank you, good vice chairman. Yesterday you may not have been in the Chamber when we talked about the fact that on 17 December the Committee on European Union Affairs decided that they would not give coordination and that they needed a more parliamentary, broader debate. We proposed that, on this Thursday, if the Prime Minister does not find the will to come and talk to Parliament, we could hold and discuss here in a situation where we have over 3,000 pages of all possible green material about this green hawk-55, so that we can not have this debate here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U7	Thank you. The way in which the agenda arises in the large hall is also precisely regulated in the home and in the working order. It's just that on Monday, the idea is to discuss something on Thursday, we don't have that chance. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U8	Thank you. I do not agree with the approach taken by Parliament in the current crisis, so that Parliament proceeds, let us say that the form is the purpose of the substance of Parliament's action. As a puppet theatre with tickets, you are currently reducing Parliament's provision for such formal procedures or liturgical possibilities. However, consider the matter purposefully and essentially by the Bureau. Then why don't you invite a debate on the energy price crisis, if you find it completely unthinkable and inappropriate to hold a public debate, why doesn't the Bureau convene, or have you discussed it in order to ask Parliament's body of elders to come here? Ask the Prime Minister, the leaders of Parliament's political groups, members of the Bureau and hold a debate on the different solutions to the energy crisis. The only thing the Prime Minister was able to say last week was that he doesn't know the solutions either. Yesterday, the Prime Minister made a statement to resolve the crisis that he gave Taavi Asa a task. Well, with this approach, I think it's totally unconvincing and inadequate reasoning right now. Mr. Member of the Bureau, a very concrete proposal: it is also possible to find different formats for trying to solve this crisis by involving Parliament in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U9	Thank you. We will certainly discuss these opportunities on the Board of the Riigikogu today. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U10	Thank you. I heard you say that someone in the Riigikogu will have an idea on Monday to ask the Prime Minister out, and that's how it's supposed to be. Sorry, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Council of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia already pointed out in October that electricity prices are clearly rising during the heating period and during the winter period and that it is already necessary to prepare for this. Now we have them, and we want the Prime Minister to come and tell us what the government plan is. And you, like, have no support for this as a Member of Parliament to invite the Prime Minister here so that he can really calm society, send positive signals to society and improve his ancient communication, bad communication. Please, as a member of his party and vice-chairman of the Riigikogu, as the first vice-chairman, support at least 30 members of the Riigikogu's wish to hear the Prime Minister here. And believe me, behind this 30 ambassadors is a large part of the Estonian public who would also like to hear what the Prime Minister says. Get behind the Question Time format... Well, you know very well, as an old Parliament wolves, that Question Time is a very limited format, and here we cannot focus on this issue in such a way as to give society clear visions, plans, concrete promises, which will then be made by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U11	Thank you. My reply to Mr Kruusimägi was that I understand that I understood correctly that this was about the 'Objective 55' debate, not about the Prime Minister's debate. Now, Mr Helme, in response to you: of course, this information was not given to the Prime Minister yesterday by the President of the Riigikogu. And if I just look at this quickest opportunity, really, having also been in Parliament for some years, Wednesday Question Time is the most acute, the fastest. And by the way, in Question Time, if you ask the Prime Minister a question, for example, you have two questions. If there have usually been political statements here, if there have been ministers or prime ministers, then there has been one specific question for every member of the Riigikogu. So these possibilities must be used within the framework that has given us the law. And if we want to change them, then the draft rules of procedure have been prepared for this. I look forward to everyone's contribution to the fact that, indeed, such an opportunity, for example, to increase the way in which Members of the Government can be called before Parliament. But I would, of course, like to discuss your own draft 484 OE as the first item today, but I don't think we can get to that yet. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I sent a letter to the Bureau proposing that the Prime Minister come before Parliament and that the subject be not the heroes in the broadest sense, but still the situation in the electricity market, which has developed specifically today, which affects a very large number of people now and now. And you said we should be based on the format we have. Well, we can design this format entirely on our own. My question is: do you not consider it necessary to have such a discussion in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which is perfectly in line with our law on home and working procedures, if we so decide and ask the Prime Minister to come here? Do you think that such a debate is not necessary and does the Bureau intend to discuss this proposal and when a reply from the Bureau might be expected if the Bureau wanted to discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U13	Thank you. Helir, the board meeting, as you remember very well as a board member, is on Tuesdays. So there's a board meeting tonight. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U14	Thank you, Mr President. In the current crisis, there is a very bad sign, a very bad symptom for society, that the government is hiding like a mole underground. It is all the more strange that the Bureau of Parliament does not assume responsibility, the basic logic, in order to protect Parliament's prerogatives in resolving this crisis, in order to bring these problems into the Chamber, but on the contrary, has set up some Mannerheim route for the protection of this underground government. My question is whether the board has discussed this crisis and what management approaches are, how it is possible to discuss possible solutions quickly and without stretching in the Chamber, because it is obvious to the Estonian public that it is clear to everyone who thinks about it, that these ways and measures to resolve the crisis that the government has proposed are not sufficient and inappropriate and that they are not reasonable. The question is that Parliament cannot simply sit next to this, and I cannot categorically agree with the thought of bringing this Parliament to a close. Mr. Chairman of the Board, you said that you were discussing my proposal for a body of elders. What, then, is the approach under the leadership Because the government, taken apart, has run under the bar.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U15	Mr Reinsalu, you always have colorful fishing mugs and colorful speeches, and certainly this for the sake of the verbatim and for the sake of history leaves a fine mark on Parliament's history. On that point, I don't think we can get much further right now. The proposal of the Isamaa Group has indeed been received by the Bureau, and the Bureau is meeting today. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Riigikogu spoke to the Prime Minister. I received a similar signal from the Prime Minister this morning that by Thursday the Government of the Republic has planned a longer debate on the subject you raised, and this is not a new issue. Everyone knows that there is a crisis, an energy crisis is and it is being discussed, and if there is additional information from either the board or the Government of the Republic, it is, of course, possible to share it with the members of the Riigikogu. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Yesterday, too, the Chairman of the Riigikogu admitted that the opposition is in good tone and that good positive energy would be wasted just like that, and it would be unreasonable to just liquefy the bones on Thursday. Yes, I admit that maybe the Prime Minister wants to make a record of two months not coming here before Parliament. But my question is, if this green pie thing doesn't work out, can't we discuss this good practice of the Member on Thursday or bad practice? At least there's some discussion going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U17	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the members of the Riigikogu are not lying around. If you have this custom on Thursdays, I cannot, of course, treat every member of the Riigikogu in any other way, but I have understood that the members of the Riigikogu plan their work schedule according to their needs and the tasks of the large hall. On Thursday, we have nothing on the agenda now in the big hall, so we can plan other activities. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U18	Thank you! This situation is already more than embarrassing than how, for the second day in a row, we are trying to convince the Prime Minister to come to Parliament and talk about matters that are acutely affecting society. I remember very well that when the Reform Party and Kaja Kallas were...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U19	I'm sorry for a second. Mrs. Kingo, I'm sorry for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep the hall down. It's really hard for me to even hear what Kert Kingo is saying through the microphone and the speakers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U20	I remember very well when Kaja Kallas was in opposition, he was the loudest speaker here when no minister came to the Riigikogu from the minute after his snap. And now, for the second day in a row, we are trying to convince the Prime Minister to come here and talk to the Members. It seems to me that either Kaja Kallas does not want to do his job or he simply cannot do it, and perhaps it would be more reasonable for him to resign, because he obviously does not want to speak before Parliament about matters of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U21	Thank you. As I have told you, the Government of the Republic has planned for Thursday also for the sitting of Parliament, which is Thursday at 10 a.m. Normally, the meeting of the Government of the Republic starts at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, and it is precisely the discussion of the energy crisis that is planned. In this sense, I think that the Government of the Republic must, above all, propose these solutions and, of course, if these solutions are proposed, they will also be distributed to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would sincerely like to go to today's agenda because on today's agenda we have two very important points. But I see that we still have procedural questions that do not concern the sitting, but concern general political discussions, and the most appropriate place for them would have been a free microphone yesterday for every member of the Riigikogu to express its thoughts. There's a full format for that. If we just keep pinging around here, it won't take much further. As I said, the Bureau meeting will be held in the same way today, the board will certainly also discuss the convening of the body of elders. We're taking advantage of all these opportunities, so don't worry about it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U22	Thank you, Mr President. I don't agree with your bored attitude. We are discussing the most important issue of the need to resolve the crisis in the people's representation. A representative cannot stand by the resolution of the crisis. If you say that you want to move forward, you do not care about this work, hand over the chairing of the sitting to the President of the Riigikogu and we can proceed with this question. It is a matter of principle: how do we qualify this crisis, which, unfortunately, has been reduced by the government, has been reduced? And you rightly said that this crisis has not come out of the way today. Yes, there has been a warning and protest about this, the absurd highest price increase in Europe, the horror-filming scenario faced by our people, faced by entrepreneurs as early as last year. But the government's approach to this has been completely, as I said, under the bar running through. And now you are saying that the government has an approach to resolving this crisis, where this crisis has already expanded as an explosion, and the government intends to discuss it on Thursday. I'm sorry, but this is totally inadequate for me. We do not need such a corner discussion; we need a real debate in Parliament. The task of the government, the head of government, must be to come to this Parliament at the heart of this crisis, at the heart of this storm, to report on what the government's approach is. This debate, if the government wants to discuss it in order to wait another 48 hours or 72 hours for this crisis to get worse and for the social problems to grow, I think we can also gather on an extraordinary basis. As far as I am concerned, I do not have any problem with that, I think that Members do not have a problem with having this debate also on a Wednesday day to hear what the Prime Minister's approach is. Why have we now faced a situation in the midst of a crisis, and this is in the face of various crises, I would point out, symptomatic in the person of the head of government who has been in the past year, saying that the government does not consider it possible to come here to give an overview of the solutions to the crisis and to hear the views of all the parliamentary forces. Why are we afraid of this debate in this crisis when Estonian society is waiting for answers and is also waiting for the right questions and assessment of the crisis? Why are we afraid of this debate in Parliament? What is the reason for this, Mr President of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U23	Mr Reinsalu, a little linguistic clarification: use the word 'right' instead of 'right'. But, Mr Reinsalu, you have now said the same thing four times for two minutes in procedural matters. I'll give you the same answer. If we talked to you on the other side, you would be the chair of the sitting, then you would certainly also be guided by the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, how the sitting of the Riigikogu can be conducted, not what are emotional opinions. I have an emotional opinion, that's not what I'm saying from the remote. Between us, we can discuss all kinds of things. The Prime Minister must chair the meeting of the Government of the Republic on Thursday, which will discuss this subject, among other things. On Wednesday, he will be in Question Time, where you can certainly ask him these questions. Mr Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U24	Thank you, Mr President and Vice-Chairman. Personally, it seems to me that you are currently violating our law on home and working procedures. The point is that your powers and rights are laid down in chapter three of our law. And right now, there is a situation where Members want to invite the Prime Minister here, and you are blocking it. I have not been able to find, let us say, this rule of law now, let us say, the right that you simply wish to see the Prime Minister in this Chamber, you have the right to refuse it, to refuse Parliament's wish. It is possible, let's say, on the board of the Riigikogu to resolve certain issues defined by law or by some other unregulated procedural issue, but it is only the competence of the board. Why don't you name the norm that gives you the right now to say so, to say the least, the wish of Members, the request and, in the situation that has arisen, to send the ambassadors to the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U25	Mr Grünthal, thank you for this question. I dare you, if we are now going to interpret the actual norm, I dare say that what is going on in this Chamber is in no way a procedural question. We have discussed this several times; procedural issues are never mentioned in this wording in domestic and operational terms. There are questions about the procedure for conducting the hearing. These questions, which have been here, have not been a single question about the procedure for conducting the sitting. Now, as far as the President of the sitting is concerned, I understand that you want to listen, very right, the President of the sitting will chair the sitting, if there are procedural questions about the procedure for conducting the sitting, he will answer them. Now, as regards the right of a member of the Riigikogu to summon a Prime Minister or members of the Government, the Rules of Procedure do not say anything about this, but the Rules of Procedure talk about the political statement of the Prime Minister or the Minister. A member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a written question, ask a question, ask oral questions in Question Time. These are formats governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Mr. Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We are talking about a crisis in this Chamber, but in fact, there is a disaster in many homes and many companies. And when you read the joint media, you will see that ordinary people are furious about the Riigikogu not doing anything about it. Do something, it's the people's kind of vox populi. We are in a very fragile situation at the moment of our reputation, and I therefore have the suggestion that if you bring the board together today, you will summon and decide to convene a body of elders and seriously consider publishing a mistrust to the Prime Minister, because he is not capable of leading this government. It is in the interests of all of us, it is primarily in the interests of the reputation of the Riigikogu, and it is also in the immediate interests of the Reform Party, and it is above all the question of the survival of the Estonian people. Please do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U27	Thank you! I will present the Rules of Procedure once more. The Rules of Procedure also regulate the processing of a motion for censure; 21 members of the Riigikogu can give it to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We are indisputably in one of the biggest crises that Estonia has experienced since regaining independence, because these energy prices and inflation and all its consequences are literally catastrophic if they continue to do so. And the government led by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, as we see from various statements, is not really going to do anything about it. So in this respect, by forgetting all the laws and procedures of domestic and working procedures, in a crisis like this, we need to act quickly, immediately. And if the Riigikogu insists that the Prime Minister should explain these steps, how and what the Government intends to do, then action must be taken momentarily and the Prime Minister must meet the wishes of the Riigikogu. But as we can see, we've been calling for the Prime Minister to come to this hall for the second day and, as we know, this is already several times during this government when the Prime Minister is hiding. I have drawn a parallel to these things before when the war began, when Germany invaded Russia, then Stalin disappeared from the public for three days. We see this in every crisis, as Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas disappears from the public just as much as the crisis is at its peak. So I believe that this four-day government hearing is not a reason for not coming to the Riigikogu. And if so, please, the Prime Minister may come forward with this statement today. We still have until 2:00. And he can come by tomorrow. Just because there's a government hearing on Thursday is no excuse. So I will once again pass on, not a request from the members of the Riigikogu, but a requirement, a public demand, that the Prime Minister should report to the Riigikogu. And I am very grateful to you, too, if you would once again forward this message to the Prime Minister in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U29	Thank you. I promise you that I will pass this wish on to the Prime Minister, but I am also convinced that people in the Prime Minister's office are following the Riigikogu sitting and listening closely to your speech now. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U30	Good manager! As far as I know, there has been an energy crisis for months. To say today that Thursday will be discussing how to solve the energy crisis is a little weird. We have had doubts as to whether the Prime Minister dares to come to the Riigikogu at all, because during December he did not report here on any Wednesday or answer questions. And when a few days ago TV3 asked Kaja Kallas for a comment on the big accounts, Kaja Kallas replied that if there were such big bills, he did not have a clear answer to what could be done with it, and that it was certainly possible to think about different solutions, but he did not have a solution at the moment. I understand that this solution has not been offered for three or four months. When we see next door, Norway made a new proposal on the weekend, he already made in November-December so people's bills wouldn't have fallen off the ceiling, now he made a new one on the weekend. And now we're saying there's going to be some discussion on Thursday, because the Centre Party has been trampling its feet for the last month. Perhaps it would be possible for you, as a member of your party, to speak to the Prime Minister so that he might do this meeting tonight and discuss what opportunities are available to save the people of Estonia today. It is not just about the price of electricity; it is also about gas and the heating economy. When these bills come in February, I think people will also have these savings, as the press says here, that some social workers are saying that you don't have coffin money to pay electricity bills. Is it still...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U31	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U32	...it wouldn't be possible to bring these people here, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely... If you have any questions, please ask. I understand that everyone has a desire to say political statements, to say political statements, they can also be done. For that yesterday, Question Time was an apology, a free microphone, I'm so sorry. And Mr Chef certainly, as a long-term Member, with the experience of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, certainly knows which steps have been taken so far, with a total volume of nearly 240 million. This is both a compensation for the rise in energy prices up to 80% of the price increase, and the question of network charges in both electricity and gas. Similarly, the package of measures concerning contracts with the stock exchange package and so on and so on, with a total amount of EUR 240 million. I don't want to go into the content, it's not my job right now, but please don't put the words in the head or in anyone else's mouth that it's only now that the Government of the Republic is discussing. I said the Government of the Republic will discuss this Thursday. I didn't say it was just now. So in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, my recommendation today is to proceed with this sitting and with the agenda that we have been given, and all other issues we can discuss in other formats, which we also have under the Rules of Procedure. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U34	Thank you, good manager. As I have heard many times, there will be another debate on Thursday, another debate. We need action! It was already clear in October that the crisis would come to an increase in energy prices, the Prime Minister was warned, he did not listen to it, also by the EKRE. I can't tell you what the Prime Minister's considerations were, either to oppose or to merely arrogance, but the subject was in the air a long time ago. And by looking at the Prime Minister's behavior, it's clear that the government has forgotten whose service he's in. The government is in public service, not the other way around. I very much hope that you, Mr Pevkur, or one of your colleagues, will send the Prime Minister a social media post yesterday in Hannes Võrno, which has become one of the most widely distributed Facebook posts in Estonian history in 24 hours, where he will state very clearly what a large part of the Estonian people are thinking. I hope that the Prime Minister will read this text, will come before Parliament on Thursday, will stop the humiliation of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, because the crisis and the situation are serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U35	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U36	Good manager! It is embarrassing to listen to all this reasoning in the cascade, Question Time and everything else and the Prime Minister need to discuss in Stenbock. But today is Tuesday, and when I look at the menu we are discussing this week, ten points are public health, road transport, seafaring, and five out of ten are points of opposition. The government, knowing which... I'm sorry! I'll wait for my colleagues to finish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U37	Then we'll wait together. Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the hall to turn down, because I want to hear what Mr Ernitsa has to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U38	You have a bell, too. It would be good to hear the bell in the morning. What if I can continue...? I am not going to tell you right now to convince your esteemed Prime Minister to come before us. I'm not saying that. Let's take the back, see the menu. The government knows, Kaja Kallas and you know the situation we are in today. The question is, on the one hand, electricity and heating prices, on the other hand, the green turn in Estonia's positions, of which Mr Kruusimägi has spoken here several times, and so have I, which should be discussed quickly, because our diplomats are sitting in Brussels, but cannot open their mouths because Parliament has not been able to chew and interpret 3000 pages. Consequently, when the government comes with such a menu, a ten-point menu, with public health, road transport and seafaring, but the important things of electricity, energy and green turn, there are no points there. And now, if we were to ask for a second day, that the merciful Prime Minister arrives here with us to discuss Estonia's positions in the event of a big green jump, you will talk about Question Time and that he needs to discuss it with his company in Stenbock. My question now is this: why has the Government of the Republic and the Government Coalition presented us this week with such a fragile and remote menu? And will they come up next week with such a long, short, fragile menu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U39	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. The plenary agenda of the Riigikogu is drawn up by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu according to the input from the Riigikogu committees. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U40	Thank you, Mr President. I asked you procedural questions about your powers in the sense that you are refusing to take up such a question at the moment in order to invite the Prime Minister to explain in this Chamber. And, as I understand it, the reference on your part was such that this question was not laid down in our labour and Rules of Procedure law. Perhaps, but § 13 (18) of this law actually gives the management board of the Riigikogu the opportunity to resolve procedural issues that are not provided for in our law. So here is the question for me whether you now find that there are no problem issues in Estonia, there is no energy crisis, there is no health crisis, there is no security crisis, unless you essentially call the Riigikogu's management to resolve this issue in order to bring the Prime Minister to this Chamber to explain. I am convinced, however, that the majority of the Estonian population is of a different opinion. Here, Mr Pevkur, I would like you to intervene in this matter and to convene the Riigikogu Board to resolve this issue, since it really is not possible to resolve the summoning of the Prime Minister in this Chamber as Parliament wishes. My question is this: was my reasoning first understood to you, and do you think that the Prime Minister is not, does not have the right and will to choose between the government and the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U41	The Riigikogu Board meets in three hours. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It is clear to everyone that the Prime Minister will avoid coming to the Riigikogu like fire. I have a proposition for you that maybe you'll take the Chairman's break for 10 minutes and talk to the Prime Minister in the meantime that maybe he'll be ready to come here on Friday. If there is a debate on Thursday, as we have heard, I am absolutely convinced that the opposition ambassadors will also be ready to take part on Friday and listen to what the Prime Minister is talking about, how to start taking immediate action on this current energy crisis. Why don't you take a break and talk to the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U43	Thank you for this proposal. The President of the Riigikogu and the first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu have spoken to the Prime Minister on this subject. As I said about the board, the board will discuss it in three hours. George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U44	Thank you. I've got two issues here now. That, first of all, when I heard correctly, here in the Riigikogu hall, demands were made here on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, no demands, I do not know whether to the government or to the management board. But I would like to point out here that there are 101 ambassadors in the Riigikogu and if the representatives of the demands make any demands, let them do so on their own behalf or the leadership of the political groups on behalf of the political groups, but not on behalf of the whole, all members of the Riigikogu. For example, I have no demands on anyone here or on the board or the government at the moment. Now for the second thing. I would ask the President of the sitting to recall...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U45	I'm sorry for a second. George, I'm sorry. [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U46	The second topic: I would ask the President of the sitting once again to remind the Chamber of the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu that it is possible to ask questions for tomorrow's Question Time, which means an hour and 22 minutes at this stage, and tomorrow, at least as far as I know, the Prime Minister will be here to answer all these questions, including this energy crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U47	Thank you. Well, you did it very nicely yourself. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U48	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I would like to acknowledge the beginning of the spring session so that Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, came straight to the table and said that energy issues should be discussed quite immediately under other questions. At the same time, the work of the Riigikogu is complete. Not only can we look at what we are doing in the Commission or what we are doing in the big Chamber, but our challenges are also very great in the context of the Green Revolution by the Committee on the Environment. We also discussed yesterday's work programme. The Minister made an overview of this, and there are also a number of activities in connection with the green turn of the circular economy, where our people are facing significant price increases, whether in the context of a deposit premium, concerning mixed municipal waste. We hear from the media that the Health Insurance Board is discussing changing the price list for health services, because hospitals no longer manage their services on the basis of the price list that has been endorsed. We see what's going on with the residents. Like it or not, the energy crisis is an acute issue, and I will come to your aid in the sense that we should not spend today's sitting and tomorrow with these procedural questions that maybe the Prime Minister can say that next week's plan is about to be confirmed, whether next week is the time when we can discuss this issue here. It has a wide range of perspectives, points of view, analysis, and I think it is inevitable to discuss it in a large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U49	Thank you, Mr Metsoya, thank you very much for your thought. In fact, you said the heart of a very important matter. Indeed, those committees that are more in contact with the issue should, in essence, discuss it. Similarly, the committees will have the opportunity to come to this Chamber in the format of a crucial national issue and bring this debate, whether it be the deposit fees or some other issue affecting our future, which deserves the attention of the great hall, to discuss this hall. That is exactly what it would make sense to do in committees, and the committees have the opportunity, among other things, to propose in the course of the OTRK who are the people who will come to this hall to speak. So really, this is one format for how to go into the topics in depth and discuss the substance, not just to say that you should discuss it, but to go and discuss it in committee in substance. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U50	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have now learned, in the sense that we will not really have the Prime Minister in the near future, apart from tomorrow's Question Time, where there will be short questions-short answers, we will not be able to get here. In a sense, of course, it is sad when, during a crisis, there is such a regular reaction: members of the Riigikogu, then submit this inquiry and then it will be processed in a few weeks' time according to the procedure. Crisis regulation, of course, requires a different pace. That is why I would rather appeal to you or to the Board of the Riigikogu, who will meet today and who should actually represent Parliament on this subject and put more serious and vigorous pressure on the government. And I will now bring this moment, for which I really have a great request that you address it as well. In the press, we can read that today we have reached a situation where we are saying, the government says, the members of the government say that all families in distress who cannot receive energy compensation have to turn to the local government. Municipalities have money, at least at the beginning of the year, that's what they say. Perhaps today the government has already begun to fully shift all this concern and responsibility to local governments. It is very, very bad to break up a society without a substantive debate. It doesn't add up to overcoming the difficulties, it disperses us. That is why I have a request to the board that you still take this issue very seriously and bring this issue to this large hall so that the municipalities feel the support of substance so that we do not break up our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U51	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U52	Good manager! I'm sure you'll know by now what the problem is with most of the questioners. Indeed, we are faced with a pretty deep state crisis and, in order to resolve it, it is essential that the Prime Minister should discuss it before the Riigikogu in concrete, clear and inclusive manner. This cannot be done in an existing format, such as Question Time or enquiries, but it is necessary that the Prime Minister either make a political statement before the Riigikogu or otherwise communicate directly with the elected representative of the people. And yesterday was...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U53	I'm sorry for a moment! Gentlemen Reinsalu, Seeder and Ligi! This threesome is constantly awfully loud, well not being able to listen normally to what the members of the Riigikogu are asking, just your buzz is so much bigger. I understand you don't care, but I have to answer Mr. Kaalepi, so I really would like to hear what Mr. Kaalep says in this case, because he has been given a microphone and you three have not been given a microphone there. Without a microphone, it is possible to discuss all political and non-political issues outside this hall. Mr. Weightep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U54	Yesterday, many members of the Riigikogu wished the Prime Minister to come here with a discussion of these topics on Thursday. If you say he can't come on Thursday, you will understand that this is an important issue and the Prime Minister should come here some other day. What day could it be? Do you agree that this cannot be dealt with simply in the Question Time format?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U55	Thank you. As the head of the Riigikogu, I must be guided by the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, and we have the formats for how we have discussions in this Chamber. If we want to change this principle in order to make it easier for us to invite ministers and the Prime Minister in front of us, then there are opportunities for us to do so, and we need to change the Rules of Procedure. I think that, in essence, looking at developments over the last few years, perhaps this point should also be taken apart. However, unfortunately, we have also not reached an agreement in the Rules of Procedure between the political groups on how we are going to proceed. So if we were to be prepared to take this issue apart, we would certainly be able to invite ministers or the Prime Minister here to report on the acute issues. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U56	Thank you, Mr President. I am surprised by the hidden threats: basically, if the opposition does not control it, the Rules of Procedure Act will be passed and issues will be legally restricted. I can interpret it that way, your line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U57	You're misinterpreting...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U58	In the autumn of last year, we actually had a situation where, in essence, the parliament was disbanded unconstitutionally, as the Supreme Court found in constitutional oversight as a precedent which has not actually been established in the history of the free parliament of Estonia in 40 years. The issue concerns a very serious and fundamental problem, it is a crisis in a country, and the approach that, if there is a crisis in a country, a representative of the people cannot be side by side with this debate, but a representative of the people must express the concerns expressed in the public, in society among entrepreneurs and people, offer their solutions and have a dialogue with Parliament. And if the Board of the Riigikogu denies this approach, [hidden] behind formalistic reasoning, and assumes that the government has prioritities and so on to come before Parliament, then I say that this is basically a different understanding of parliamentarianism. Parliament calls on the government to itself and the government, which respects Parliament and the representative of the people and the people who have elected this Parliament, comes. That's actually the point of attitude. When the Head of Government says he cannot come, he wants to discuss these matters, it shows his attitude towards Parliament, and it also shows his attitude towards his people. My clear proposal is this: we are not going... My proposal is not to go from here to this parliamentary debate until we have received a response from the government. This government is not capable of managing this crisis, as we can see. Consequently, this problem must be brought to the people's representation and to the debate on the representative of the people. I would ask you to contact the Prime Minister of the Republic and say that this answer is not enough for Parliament. Parliament, together with the Prime Minister, wants to have a dialogue this week. In the crisis for society too, the speed of determination in resolving the crisis and, above all, in diagnosing the crisis counts. The way in which the government diagnosed the crisis by presenting and adopting a budget in Parliament which did not correspond to the actual level of inflation and which essentially did not respond to this situation of the energy price crisis shows that the government is radically misdiagnosing the situation. And this is a threat to our economy, to people's livelihoods and, more generally, to security. I have a suggestion that we now interrupt this debate. We can't go forward in this situation until then, it's my assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U59	Mr Reinsalu, procedural questions are questions, not political speeches. That's one. Secondly, you have experience in this hall even longer than I do. You've been in this hall for almost 19 years. For 19 years, you have lived with quite the same house and procedure as he is before us. If we wish to change this, it will not be in the hands of anyone else than in the hands of the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. So I therefore call on you to be active and to propose changes to the Rules of Procedure in order to really change the assumptions that the President of the Riigikogu quotes from the Rules of Procedure, if necessary. I've been open for this debate all along, and I'm open right now, so I'm looking forward to it. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have an extremely polite proposal in the form of a question. We learned that the Prime Minister has no solutions and he has given this great problem to solve our superhero Taavi Asa. And here's my question. Wouldn't it be possible for us to call Taavi Asa on Thursday, because he is going to solve this crisis? Clearly, he has some knowledge, and it would be our wish that we can share the information obtained from Taavi Asa with our constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U61	Thank you. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister are subject to exactly the same rules as regards making a political statement. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The current situation is rather strange if the government and the head of government do not behave adequately in the face of this crisis. We don't, I agree with you, there's no way to summon the Prime Minister here if he doesn't want to. But in such a case, in times of crisis, does it not make sense for the Riigikogu to take up matters that the government cannot handle? Imagine that we have an armed conflict on the border and then they ask what the Prime Minister is going to do. And he says in a week, the Secretary of Defense will be here, I gave him an assignment to get his plans ready, and then you'll find out. I think that, in this special situation, it is not only our right, but also our duty to deal with those things that the government cannot handle. That is the question: do you not think there is such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U63	Thank you. The Riigikogu always has the opportunity to deal with all questions. In order to do so, whether through Riigikogu's legislative, decision-making or discussion, the form can be chosen by the Riigikogu itself. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U64	Thank you, good vice chairman. I congratulate you on such a good rebellion that, from time to time, you are breaking the rules, the other way around you say that the rules are universally important, which actually prevent us from dealing with this crisis. The Minister and the Prime Minister are subject to the same and similar rules. But my question is, if we have, as the Head of Government has said, a crisis, whether the crisis can interfere with the regulation of the crisis, any rules that fall in the way. Let's say, for example, there's a 2+2 rule, but that's not possible in this remote control, because it doesn't make two meters apart, which is why a person can't come in. Is resolution of the crisis more important than compliance with the rules? That's my procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U65	Thank you. Crisis resolution is also regulated, that is my answer. And there was hope of going to the bill enquiries, but Mr Reinsalu still has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U66	Thank you, Mr President. There are decisive moments in which Parliament must actually stick together, overcome this day-to-day confrontation and cooperate in offering the real solutions for which we have been invited. And I think that we have all received very many legitimate worrying expectations from many people, but also very demanding views on how to resolve this crisis, and certainly very much criticism that these measures, which have been proposed, are either expected to have already proved to be, or to prove to be, inadequate or cumbersome or short-term measures. And now the question is, I think it would be wrong, Mr President of the sitting, to point out, as if it were the concerns of Members about the situation and the desire of the Head of Government, on behalf of the government, as the head of the institution implementing the internal and foreign policies of the country, that it would be like a spiteful or somewhat opposite culture. And I'd like to take that line of thought down here. On the contrary, it is a call for an inclusive political approach so that we have more confidence in the stress environment in which society exists and in the context of the crisis, and possibly also legitimacy for the various measures that we urgently need. But the situation is that these proposals are bouncing like bulletproof glass, and we are not in a position to create this dialogue with the Head of Government right now. You referred to the fact that there was a meeting of Parliament's Bureau at noon and there was a discussion, trying to find different solutions to the proposals that sounded at them. Would you be able to formulate, at this stage, how, in your opinion, this approach to Parliament's role over the next few days, and what you would propose at the Bureau meeting, with proposals and calls in mind, so that it also meets the expectations of a number of Members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U67	Thank you. It wasn't a procedural question. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U68	Thank you. Mr Pevkur, I wanted to clarify procedurally whether we still have a parliamentary state. In this regard, just that if we have a prime minister who essentially... Our working relationship is that Parliament is an employer to the Prime Minister, and if Parliament, at least a third of Parliament, wants the Prime Minister to come here and answer our questions, then in fact the Prime Minister should offer opportunities which day or at what time he may come. Parliament is indeed very flexible in this regard. We're waiting for that answer on Thursday, Friday, inside next week. And you understand perfectly well that if we don't get that answer today, we can ask tomorrow. The crisis is ongoing and our questions continue. So my question is: are we a parliamentary state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U69	Thank you for your question. The answer is yes. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U70	Thank you very much, Mr President. I actually have a question for the Bureau now, and I hope that this is actually a completely substantive, procedural issue. If a member of the Riigikogu turns to the management board, does he or she have the right to do so in a session according to the current law of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, and if he or she has the right to address the management board, can he or she also make specific proposals for organising the work of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U71	During the chairing of the sitting, the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu regulate the questioning of the procedure for conducting the sitting. Or if this procedure has indeed been violated, it is possible to submit a protest to the Board of the Riigikogu, which will then have to be resolved. These are the regulations we have been given in the Rules of Procedure. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U72	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have a procedural question to answer the voters. I would remind you that on 13 December the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, appeared before the Riigikogu in connection with the energy crisis. If we look now at Thursday, then Thursday is January 13th, just one month has passed, and so far we have not received a clear and adequate response from any member of the government to how it will be resolved. We found out the Prime Minister has pushed it nicely on Tavi Asa. Do you know there are any compelling reasons why Taavi Aas could not save the reputation of the government coalition at this moment? In the course of this month, a certain amount of knowledge has obviously come to fruition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U73	Thank you. As far as I know, in the meantime, the Government of the Republic has also made further decisions on network charges, for example, so these decisions are all well-findable. And as I said in the meantime, the total volume of these decisions is nearly 240 million for the taxpayer as a whole. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U74	Thank you very much. I would actually go on with where my last question left off. In principle, your reply could be summarised as if a member of the Riigikogu could only communicate with the board in writing; it would not be possible for the session to be orally, because as soon as we come to the hall, we are sitting. However, I do not think that we have yet begun the sitting; we are in the process of implementing the sitting. In principle, it would be logical and still possible for a member of the Riigikogu to submit specific oral proposals and questions to the management board, or otherwise the only way to communicate with the management board in writing would be to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U75	Mr. Hepner, all members of the Riigikogu, of course, can take the button at any time and offer suggestions and ideas for any member of the board. There's no problem. So in this sense I see no obstacle, you can offer you these ideas at the right time. However, during the sitting we do have a part of the sitting in that sense. The trial starts today at 10:00, according to the law, as it began. And for the purposes of implementing the sitting, in fact, it is 10 o'clock that the call sign is the first item on the agenda, or not the item on the agenda, but the first part on the implementation of the sitting, the handing over of drafts and enquiries. We have not reached this point because the members of the Riigikogu have had procedural questions, but the sitting is still open since 10 a.m. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U76	Thank you, Mr President. I fully agree with you in this respect that the procedure is important, but as a representative of the people, you obviously agree that what is happening in society is even more important from a parliamentary point of view. This situation, where we are today, precisely in the energy crisis, it needs to be resolved, and you, like the work, I understand very well, to lead this process, but do you agree with me that, in fact, the Estonian person is worth discussing this issue as a matter of urgency in this very Chamber, under the leadership of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U77	Thank you. I believe that solutions need to be found for people to be able to overcome this crisis together, both MEPs and those who are not in Parliament, together. Because it's not hard for everyone. It's true. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U78	Good chairman or vice-chairman! I now look at this on our agenda and see that we have an opportunity to ask questions to a minister. This is the fourth item on the agenda tomorrow, this is Tanel Rock. But he obviously does not have the competence to respond to us in the framework of this Public Health Act in connection with the energy crisis. My question is: is it so-called good practice if at least once a spruce is attended by a head of government and opens a debate on an important subject, and the ambassadors can ask him questions? I understand that you have more ministers in your group, and your review of the possibility of resolving this crisis is far more competent than the opposition has. Would this information be shared with us because people are really worried and they see that the government is ignoring the debate with the Riigikogu? How and how can we resolve this? In tomorrow's item on the agenda, can we, for example, try to replace Tanel Kike with Taavi Asa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U79	Thank you. Mr. Kruusimäe, I really have a sincere suggestion for you. There are 56 minutes and 20 seconds left to submit a written request for a question in Question Time. And this is the fastest way to ask the Prime Minister tomorrow at 12:00. It will be transferred and the people of Estonia will be able to listen to your question to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's response to you. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to all these questions that come from my point of view on the left by some people, I have a question for you. I understand that the Fatherland has decided to simply close this sitting today. Is that what you think? Because you can keep asking questions that you have to answer in the same way all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U81	Honourable Ivi Eenmaa! The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu today do not allow the Head of the Riigikogu to conclude the debate on procedural matters by, for example, voting. It is also a matter of the conscience of every member of the Riigikogu to observe the Rules of Procedure. Whether the questions that are asked are related to the procedure for conducting the sitting or go into political debate or political speech, which the Rules of Procedure do not provide for us in themselves, but the head of the Riigikogu certainly, none of the three of us, is such a hiromant as to see to the minds of the members of the Riigikogu whether there is going to be a question of the procedure for conducting the sitting or a political statement, it must be a question of the conscience and dignity of each member of the Riigikogu. Mr. Reinsalu, for the seventh time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Very correct words from the President of the sitting: the question of the conscience of a member of the Riigikogu is to comply with the Rules of Procedure Act. And indeed, as a precedent in the history of Estonian parliamentarianism, the Supreme Court found a deliberate violation of the Constitution that took place here in the autumn of last year, the purpose of which was to formally shut Parliament down, using the words of Mrs Eenmaa as a figure, intentionally in breach of the Constitution, to formally shut Parliament down. And now we are facing a situation that has provoked the dissatisfaction of Members, where, alongside the attempt, and unfortunately, a successful attempt to formally shut Parliament down against the Constitution, we are in a situation where we want to shut Parliament down in essence. Perhaps the aim is to cut off the substantive debate about Estonia's most important, central and acute crisis and its ways of resolving it. With this, no Member who has taken an oath to the Estonian Constitution can agree to his or her parliamentary duties and to defend the interests of his or her constituents and the interests of Estonia. I am completely inconsistent in this sense that the government will remain silent and, as I said, using your words as a figure, "stuck under the ground like a mole." And the Bureau of Parliament, rather than defending Parliament's prerogatives, has begun to form a barrier to the government. This is certainly, in my opinion, a degrading approach to Parliament...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U83	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U84	My question really is this: does Parliament have the only opportunity to hold a political debate and listen to the government here, a motion of distrust for the government? I must admit that this low level of trust that has been in this Chamber for this government has been greatly damaged by listening to the debates of these last days and hours or by monitoring the government's inaction in this crisis. This government does not deserve the confidence of this hall. And, formally, the government, with its disrespect for Parliament, unfortunately, confirms that when it comes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U85	Mr Reinsalu, in answering one of your questions, I said that your experience during 19 years from this hall and also from the side of the Government of the Republic should give you an adequate overview of the possibilities for the Riigikogu to see a member of the government on this board. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U86	Thank you, good vice chairman. The answer you gave me was a little misleading. Yes, I know that Parliament will have the opportunity to ask a question in Question Time. But perhaps it would be more appropriate to talk about a written question, because then there will also be substantive answers. We know for ourselves that if anyone comes to this briefing, we'll get these answers and play it... bingo, so look what you've done. I would like to have such a major debate, where you can put exactly such meaningful questions as the oral one. And that the respondent would also be as meaningful as when writing written answers. At this point in time, people may have the impression that our only contact with the government's opposition is Question Time. This is misleading in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U87	Thank you. My answer was not misleading. You asked for the fastest chance, and that's what I told you. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mart Helme has a wish to do, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now spent an hour and ten minutes trying to clarify various issues, basically whether we have a constitutional crisis and whether Parliament is the body that defines the nature of this country, whether we have a parliamentary republic or whether we have an authoritarian republic in which the government decides what, how, when, who. And it's more like we have a republic that way. However, the draft that I intend to hand over on behalf of our group concerns the energy shock. And we propose that the government stop, we propose that the government suspend the electricity market exchange for at least a year and impose a regulated national price and also suspend Estonia's participation in the CO2 trading system, or ETS, for at least a year. We have heard a lot of nice suggestions here, all cosmetic and taking a long time. We basically support the proposal of our colleagues in the Fatherland on the reform of the electricity market, but it is clear to everyone that it will not come by snapping. But already at the beginning of February, people need to pay back their mammoth bills and therefore a rapid response is needed. And that is why our draft has been drawn up. The explanatory memorandum to the bill also gives a very good and very bleak picture of the situation that has developed. And we hope, having heard from virtually all, perhaps with the exception of the Reform Party, that the political groups represented in the Riigikogu will support the need to take urgent steps to reduce the prices of electricity and other energy carriers, that this bill will be dealt with at the maximum speed and that this bill will be supported in order to improve the situation of the Estonian people immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U89	Mr Reinsalu, has the procedural question once again come up with regard to the last draft which has been transferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U90	Thank you, procedural question, yes. And it actually touched on Mart Helme's suggestion that it is possible to reduce the shape of the electricity market. I assure all Members of Parliament, the Estonian people, that it is possible to bring down the reform of the electricity market over a calendar month. This requires the decisions of the government as owner, which also requires an amendment to the law, which would also be required by the EKRE proposal. However, this does not require any controversy, a debate at EU level, as the reform of the electricity market is actually applicable within the framework of existing European Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U91	Mr Reinsalu, this is not a procedural question. I beg you very much not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Well, all the time! This is a political speech on this draft, which has now been handed over. When this bill comes to first reading, you can come to the remote. Well, actually, well! Now, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft decision and the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further processing, of course, in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please! But before I check for presence, I'm going to do a hall call because we had procedural questions for so long. I said I'd make a call first. Our good helpers were just really fast. [[From the chute hall.]] There hasn't been a vote to cancel, Mr Reinsalu. There hasn't been a vote to cancel. The presence check shall not be a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U92	80 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U93	Our first item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Riigikogu's resolution "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to accept the negative corona test as evidence of infection safety" proposed by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The first-reading report is made by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party handed this draft decision over to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 11 November, and much has changed since then until today. By now, we've reached Coronal Four. The last two times, we broke records of infection and corona spread. We were the first in the world to be infected. I would like to hope that we will do better with this wave, but by acting the same way, under the same principles of government restrictions, we cannot be sure of that. The vaccines were given high hopes, hopes for their effectiveness, but it has now become apparent that they do not justify these hopes. By this day, it is clear that both vaccinated and unvaccinated people will be infected with corona, regardless of the number of doses received. Even before, people who have already passed through the Corona will be reinfected, for a second time. After all, a handy example is my colleague Lauri Läänemets, whose second infection was recorded in the media. Therefore, today's measures do not prevent infection or disease. The vaccination passport, falsely referred to by the government as evidence of infection safety, creates false safety. It does not provide guarantees that vaccinated people who own it are not infected and the distributors of the disease are not infected. It doesn't guarantee infection, transmission of the virus, infection of others, and illness. Nor does it ensure that the disease passes easily or without symptoms. That's not exactly what you're looking for. The vaccination passport isn't proof of anything. If so, only that the person has received injections that do not protect enough or at all, no matter how many injections the person has received. A situation has been created where people talk and act in such a way that a healthy person can be infected with a virus that he doesn't have, like those who have been injected against it. It is also absurd to explain that unvaccinated people are protected by restrictions related to vaccination. This is a real example of hypocrisy. It is an act of inciting people against one another, a deliberate incitement to hatred and hatred. The government has imposed restrictions that have led to the withdrawal of fundamental rights from healthy but unvaccinated people. They cannot participate fully in society and are out of public life. Theatre, cinema, concerts, restaurants, training halls, spas and so on, all this is forbidden for them. Even healthy people can't go to the sauna anymore. Where does that make sense? Healthy lifestyles, sports in training halls, swimming pools, saunas, spas are prohibited for healthy people. And that's how they spread a potential infected virus from the fake protection passport holders, infecting others, creating new major fires without knowing it, with the permission of the government and with the support of the government. There's no control over the virus. There is also no control over the actual number of positive tests, as a large part of the holders of the vaccination passport do not test themselves. From an infectious point of view, there is no reason to make a difference as to whether a person has been vaccinated or not. It's important that a person doesn't even unwittingly spread the virus without knowing it. This can only be ensured by testing. Unlike the vaccination passport, it is the negative test result that gives confidence that a person is not infected with the Coronavirus and is not at risk to his or her fellow humans. Testing in public places, events, dining places, entertainment and cultural events gives all in attendance confidence that the spread of the corona and the possibility of its infection are minimised in these places. Infections can be reduced by more extensive testing and by limiting the exposure of infected persons and all persons in close contact, including vaccinees. Against this background, the negative position of the government so far regarding testing is incomprehensible. Corona testing and negative test results are accepted as evidence of infection safety in schools and sometimes in close contact, but negative test results in public places, many workplaces and society at large are not accepted. The selective and unwarranted government approach to proof of infection safety exacerbates society's distrust of the measures in force and hampers the functioning and cohesion of society, has devastating effects on society's mental health and economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The question now is whether we want to control the spread of the virus as much as possible, to protect people as effectively as possible from infection and disease, in order to prevent the world's first arrival again. Your vote shows whether you actually want to protect people from infection and illness, or whether you are using coronavir to push some people out of society, reject them, secure the current caste system in our country. You will show your attitude when voting on this bill, whether you really care and whether we are the rule of law or whether it has simply become an empty word. As Jaanus Karilaid also read about today's media, he has said that he has proposed this to the government, I dare to assume that the Centre Party will support our draft decision. Otherwise, the media interview is simply empty words. And on the basis of all the above, we propose that the Government of the Republic accept a negative corona test as evidence of infection safety in public places and events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U95	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have at least one question. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U96	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The fact that the current government corona policy does not accept negative tests as evidence of infection safety only leads to one clear conclusion. It is that the government's coronal policy is not aimed at preventing the spread of the virus. Can you tell us what the purpose of this policy is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U97	Thank you for your question. Looking at the government's decisions and listening to the answers to questions in Question Time, the government's decisions do not reflect in any way the will to control the coronavir. Rather, when they speak in a situation where it is known that vaccines are not effective, they are not effective, they are still talking to vaccinate, it is clear that the aim is simply to vaccinate for vaccination. It's a matter of who gets profit from it. But I still haven't noticed these restrictions, which are completely illogical, so that they can see or want to limit the spread of the virus and actually protect people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U98	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm just saying, what kind of quick test do you mean with your bill? I've realized there's a variety of these: this PCR test, which can also be done as a rapid test, and then it's an antigen test. Which particular test do you consider necessary? And secondly, if I may ask two questions at a time, who will bear the costs of this testing? Is it the person who wants to attend the event or come to the sports club, or should it be done somehow, as I do not know, in Berlin, for example, that there are public test points where a local person can test himself for free?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U100	Thank you for your question. I remember it was possible to get into a lot of places in the summer to take a beam test. That means it was a stick test. I don't mean specifically the spitting test, really, I guess that's what we had on sale. It provided an opportunity to visit hotels, spas and other centres here. These are what I mean, I really do not mean here, for which it is necessary to go to Confido or other centres, which will certainly take a very long time. This is a more thorough test, which may well make sense when travelling. But whether the tests are free is a government decision. The government must enable people, including non-vaccinated people, to have access to various public events and participate in society. It's the government's decision-making place to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U101	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If the over-testing of students in schools has justified themselves very well ♪ this experience is now there, and it has actually been the decision of the same government, and it has produced a very good result, then what may be the reason why the government forbids this effective opportunity for all people in Estonia and still imposes a koron passport on it? Is there any such... Well, let's say, you probably haven't done an in-depth analysis, obviously the government hasn't done either, because otherwise they would have changed their decisions. How has this affected our economy and entrepreneurship in the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U103	Thank you! That is also the issue, which is a very important aspect of the entire policy of government action so far. These Choron proofs, vaccinated people's proofs aren't... I don't know if there were any legitimate expectations on the part of the government that the economy would continue to function in the same way, all these restaurants, cinemas and theaters are insanely crowded, and there is an active visitation. It's not there. Turnover has fallen dramatically, businesses are shutting themselves down, they have gone bankrupt. I have just read that there has been a 48% drop in ticket sales in Piletilevi, culture is basically already on the verge of destruction. Therefore, this recital does not work. The second thing, of course, is to distinguish between these corona passport holders in such a way that it gives them the armor, nor has it worked, because a lot of corona fires have exactly begun either in the theatre hall or in an event with passports, be it... Well, I'm sure Pöff's probably got everything. And what would I definitely like to mention? This already calls into question the objectivity of the government's decisions that this corona is treated selectively. There are events where there is green light, mass events can be held. For New Year's Eve, the government decided that we didn't have any korona, and for a day and a half, people could be totally free to move and celebrate. The government decided to stop the corona. Then there's the corona again. This makes the objectivity of these decisions very skeptical. And looking at all this illogical limit, we also received an e-mail from all the members of the Riigikogu, where it was explained that people who are not vaccinated must stay at home in close contact, but vaccinated people and people who have been infiltrated, for whom we now know that they are infected exactly the same way, they do not have to stay at home at all, that is not logic. There's no interest here. The government's interest in restricting the spread of the virus doesn't appear to be in any decision. Thank you. I hope I was able to answer everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U104	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you also spoke about the COVID certificate, I have such a question that, as we know, the Government of the Republic has imposed by its regulation a situation that businesses must verify the existence of a COVID certificate, or handle personal data that is contrary to the Data Protection Act. The absurdity of this situation is that it must be challenged in court. However, if, for example, the local authorities adopt a decision or a regulation imposing a non-verification of the COVID certificate in their administrative territory, as this is contrary to the Data Protection Inspectorate's law, what is the legal solution here? Does the Government of the Republic automatically cancel it or must the Government of the Republic go to court to challenge it, as is currently the case with regard to the Data Protection Act and the Government of the Republic's decree on the COVID point?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U106	Thank you for your question. This does not directly concern this draft, where we are talking about recognising negative tests as evidence of infection safety. It's as if I'm talking more about the petty nature of government decisions. I dare call it petty, because I have not understood why, for example, there is a limit to going to the sauna for people who have not been vaccinated, while, as I always say, vaccinated people do not test themselves and they are very potential distributors of the virus, carriers of the virus and others who are sick and at the same time a healthy, unvaccinated person cannot even go to the sauna. We have quite a lot of homes in Estonia, where there are not enough sanitary conditions, there is no possibility of washing at home. And you imagine, in this situation, you wouldn't be allowed to go to the sauna. Not allowed in a gym that really has a gym, maybe two to three people, not allowed to train. However, they are allowed to go to taverns on a massive scale, to celebrate nightclubs, to go to events here, to have these big Christmas parties for private companies. Not all companies are allowed, of course, certain companies. This is a lack of logic, and I still see here that the deliberate division of people into classes, the coronation and the coronation itself, the way it is established by government order, it is not even legally correct, it is completely against the law. This is not the way to act, but this is a separate issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U107	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U108	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I agree with many of the arguments you have brought here. I was disturbed in your introduction or answers that you indicated, that you started listing some events or events where you thought they might have caused or caused a fire. I am simply asking that, if we do not have concrete and firm facts from us, we certainly would not name any specific events. We don't need to incriminate here and stuff like that. But here's the question. We have heard with you in the Committee on Social Affairs for quite a while and have noticed this inaction in the context of the government. I thought maybe you'd understand better than me why this testing has not been supported by the government so far. If I also read the understanding of the chairman of the new scientific council that the omicronth strain also vaccinates those who still don't want to vaccinate they suffer through and still receive immunity. What's the purpose? Why doesn't the government support this testing so people can get back to normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U109	Thank you for your question. I'd like to adjust the introductory part first. As I pointed out in the introduction and in the introduction of the draft, vaccinated people are not tested, so there is no overview of how many of them are actually infected. Therefore, there can be no record of any major event, which is only for visiting with vaccine passports, there are no data on them, many of them infected, because they do not test themselves, especially when they are without symptoms. But on the real question, yes, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have talked about all kinds of things there. Scientists have also recommended testing, and I have understood that the government's only priority is to vaccinate as much as possible. I don't even know why they're nasty about these tests. I've just realized all their behavior that they have no interest in actually restricting the virus and protecting people. It's an impression from what they've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U110	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U111	Good waitress! The question to be specified is this: is your offer that this test will be replaced by this corona passport, i.e. this passport will completely disappear, or is it additionally that a person must have a corona pass, in addition he must do another test, or I don't know, this person can choose whether he will show the corona pass or do the test? Or what it's gonna look more accurate when a person wants to go to, I don't know, a spa or a restaurant or a party, as you mentioned here, aren't people gonna want to go to parties? So what does it look like exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U112	Thanks for the question. Those who do not have a corona pass, who have not been vaccinated for whatever reason, would then have this negative test as evidence of infection safety. At the same time, vaccinated people should also test themselves. But this, we cannot establish the rules in this sense with certainty, is it not up to the companies themselves? But the main focus is still that those who are currently excluded from society, who are made third-class people, to enable them, if they are healthy and their test is negative, to be able to participate in society's activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U113	Dear colleagues, I apologize to you! Within this item on the agenda, everyone has one question, so we must proceed from it. I mean, there's one question for each of the waitresses. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Kert! I have a bit of a skeptical belief in the good will of the government to accept something that positive, but I am still asking in a practical way that if, in the event that. How is the entrepreneur supposed to behave now? Should he have a whole lot of these tests to guarantee that the client will come and test? It also entails certain costs. Or... And then these costs will probably start to pay somehow. How do you see who will reimburse these expenses or how this reimbursement should be? Or the version is that a person carries tests with him and does them on site before he goes in for an event, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U115	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't dare take decisions for the government here, but we still have a government that makes decisions. But I think of the millions of them, which are currently only spent on vaccination, and these campaigns, I was listening to two ads on the radio today when I was driving to work this morning. One was that Synlab invited himself to test for sure that it was the best and most effective against the virus, and at the same time called the third dose of effectiveness to make people. I'm sure you'll find these resources at that expense, it's a matter of will. And as a result of all that we have here, we also have enough, more, money, for example, with the rise in electricity prices and the increase in fuel prices. It's just a matter of goodwill. Especially when you think that the great slogan of this government was that Estonia and we will do better. Finally, I would like to see in my actions that this better-guarded Estonia is not just an expression of the rise in electricity prices, that then they are like kept, but that it reaches every person and that they feel that they have been kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U116	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U117	Thank you. Well, I have understood from the point of view of the government that it is based on the advice of scientists, and I understand very well the logic of scientists that how much the vaccine limits infection, how much infection and how high the odds are there. These charts have been presented very much, and Krista Fischer has done a particularly grateful job on this ground. However, your speech was actually full of half-truths that ignore all of this. But I have a bit of a personal question, but maybe not unacceptable. Most fractions in this room are fully vaccinated. The news in your group is that you have had an outbreak. Can you tell your colleagues how many unvaccinated people are among you? And don't you see anything to do with such a more general public policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U118	Thanks for the question. Now we get to that point, which is an important thing during all this corona virus and pandemic that we have now forgotten, especially, as you can see, under the leadership of the Reform Party. We have human health records and these are data that are not disseminated and do not need to be disseminated to everyone. Statistics are Statistics Estonia's series. But just like the vaccine passports and the health records, they were still sensitive personal data, and I don't have to start talking here, and I don't even know who's been vaccinated, how many injections anyone's been given or not. There's no public interest here. A person also has the right to keep his or her health records to himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U119	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Jürgen would be reminded first of all that the government just gave scientists or sent away scientists, the scientific council. So something must have been wrong or wrong. These same scientists have indicated that testing is an effective method. Whether it was the reason the scientific council was disbanded or not, I don't know. But I ask the rapporteur: is there any idea why the government is, in fact, stubbornly hostile to the cultural, entertainment and catering sectors? This testing would certainly help these areas, I believe you agree with me. But why wouldn't you? What is the reason why this testing is still not being allowed, why are there hostility to the cultural, entertainment and catering sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U121	Thank you for this question. I can only rely here on the answers given by the Prime Minister in this Question Time. The Prime Minister claims that this is how we protect society, protect the defenseless and only need to be vaccinated. No further answers have been given to us, there are no arguments and there are no arguments as to why they are against testing. I would point out that this morning I also read in the media, watched interviews, and Maimets said that tests, as I recall, nicely he said they worked and they would be necessary. Jürgen Ligi has very outdated data. It was last year, and now things have changed. Scientists also claim that tests are necessary. The data that you don't need tests... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's scientific advice. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U122	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Yeah, the scientific advice was disbanded, and it's kind of a precedent. Is there a basis for disbanding the Scientific Council if scientists don't like it? It's a humour in itself. But I wanted to ask you, good Kert, can you understand the logic of the government that the same beams in schools are the appropriate measure to identify potential positives, but in other places there is a completely unacceptable and wrong thing. Can you account for this logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U124	Thank you! As I have repeatedly said here, and I have also pointed out in briefings and said as much as possible everywhere, there is no logic in the current government's decisions regarding the corona event. There is also no or no will or desire to control the virus in practice, to get an overview of the spread of the virus, because the extent of the spread can only be seen in tests, not by injecting, which does not result in immunity, but may become sick again and again and again. I am still saying that there is no logic, it can be seen that these are subjective decisions. And it is certainly not better kept in the sense of the Estonian ordinary person, as everyone sees it, but it is possible that there is some very small group of society who feels that they have been terribly well kept. That's all they seem to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U125	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I've been double-vaccinated myself and I've had the corona after vaccination, and that's what happened to my family. I went to Italy on Christmas break. All of us were required to have a valid antigen test within 24 hours, and you can't enter the country without it. Of course, when we came back, we didn't ask for anything like this. Is it not reasonable, in the current situation where the omicronth strain is spreading, when we look at data from the Worldometer, that there are between two and three million people in the world, still requiring people who enter the country to have a 24-hour rapid test?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U127	Thank you! Very good direction of theme management. It's another mystery and a complete freedom of logic. Even if we were the first in the world and throughout the Coronal Life, this government has called us open and has allowed us to import viruses into the country completely indiscriminately. There's no control at the airport. The fact that the Health Board claims that the entry certificate will be filled in. Well, it's voluntary. At the same time, it is known that now that the Omicron was brought in from distant countries to us here, that these planes and tour routes are not only via Tallinn Airport. Very, very many travels are arriving in Helsinki and people are already coming from Helsinki by sea to Estonia. No one has checked Estonia. The second place is Riga Airport, where a lot of air travel comes from distant African countries, and from there people come to Estonia. No one's checking. I have asked the Prime Minister this question, we have asked the Social Affairs Committee, and the only saying is, the explanation is that we are keeping the country open. In my opinion, this is a place of order where it can be seen that there is no desire and no desire to protect our country from new strains, to protect our people, and to try to control this virus at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U128	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Estonia has been known to buy vaccines in millions of doses. Now we see that these vaccines have proved to be very ineffective and are new strains, but yesterday it was reported that somewhere in Cyprus there is another strain called delta crone. That's great! A cross product of Omicron and delta, which probably the old vaccines won't start with a tooth again. Is there no reason why this negative test is so strongly rejected, precisely that these vaccines need to be ingested at all costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U130	Thank you for your question. Looking at government decisions and government actions, that's exactly what it looks like. And by looking at how indifferent was the cold warehouse treated, what do I call it now politely? In a case where about four or five million euros in total were simply written in the chimneys and the vaccines were destroyed, no one was interested in what was happening there, it is obvious that the attitude towards the millions that have been put into vaccines is very indifferent, very irresponsible. And there's probably so many of them bought up because they'd be... The focus has been on vaccinating for vaccination without waiting for any result. In short, it does not appear, I am still saying this, the desire to control the spread of the virus, to protect people from the virus, and, at the same time, which is a lesser threat to the omicron, to prevent hospital overload.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U131	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U132	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Well, while it's going to be a heart attack, I've been tested or tested over several times, and I've also received two vaccines and one of its effectiveness doses. But here's my question. When children are tested in schools, has there been any awareness in the Social Affairs Committee, for example from the Ministry of Social Affairs, that this rapid test is somehow more dangerous to adults than to children? And the other side of the question, maybe, is that if it's not somehow competent with the beam test, but if I get this message that I'm possible with close contact, I'm still being tested. Is there any difference in these tests, or is it important that you are assigned to someone so-called close contact, then you have to be tested, but if you are not assigned to close contact, then the beam test is irrelevant?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U133	Thanks for the question. It seems to me that this government will evaluate this test and its outcome selectively, in some situation they will find that it is the only correct option, and it will display a real, true result as far as schools are concerned, it will be very believed, and in some situation they will find that it does not matter. Although I would also say from a personal family member, a close experience, the rapid tests, or this, let's say, what's been given in hospitals, this more thorough test, he could give a false positive, there have been more. I haven't heard him give a false negative, but I've heard that this beam could give a false positive, which later turns out to be negative when you go to Qvalita or SYNLAB. Meaning, rather, these tests are more reliable, they don't lie to you, and they make you more attentive. But in the case of the government, yes, I really don't understand. We have not been told in the Committee on Social Affairs that these tests would be dangerous for adults. I don't think they'd even be on sale if they were dangerous. Nor has it been said that they should not be used for adults or that they should not work properly for adults compared to children. It's just a government policy to vaccinate for vaccination and not to keep your people safe and not to protect them from the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U134	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Today's figures from Finland show that more than 9700 were registered as infected. The largest infected area is the Helsinki region and Uusimaa. And now here yesterday the doctors in the area proposed, called for all possible restrictions to be lifted, because the omicronth strain is spreading at such a speed that the restrictions hinder the economy but do not contribute in any way to the spread of the virus. And they said that with this new strain, we should live like the usual upper respiratory epidemic. Those who get sick stay home for a while and go back to work later. The behaviour of our government is unclear as to whether it is a matter of principle or a lack of development. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Are you predicting our kind of stubborn injection campaign when we come to the mind of the rest of the world and become open?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U136	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U137	Thank you for a good question. Looking at the behaviour of our government, which will not allow itself to be disturbed by logic, if necessary, nor guided by other countries that have thought through and successfully managed to control the virus, I tend to think that they are going to go exactly the same way: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination. So far, no other valid arguments have been heard. And that's where they stay. All the more so since the coronal passports are today in the light of this new strain, which indeed, as scientists have written about, I read yesterday, I think Maimets was the one who gave information that there was a mild, predominantly mild disease similar to a cold. Then this vaccine passport is a completely meaningless, trivial document. But our Prime Minister said that the passport came to stay, and Minister Kiik praised it. I tend to think that, regardless of reasonableness, logic and rationality, our government will not be able to draw normal conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U138	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We all know that assessments are based on results. If we now see a strange inefficient government rejecting the corona crisis, we see equally ineffective action to understand the causes of the electricity crisis and to solve the electricity crisis, what do these two examples say to you as a 'kapo' to a Member of the Commission and to the various briefings and information heard? What do these examples tell us about the government's general ability to understand, for example, the more serious crises that may arise, especially in the area of security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U140	Thank you for your question. Now we have come again to the fact that I will come back to what we have here for two days before the beginning of the session, how we must insist and convince the Prime Minister to be able to get into this Riigikogu in the first place, so that he can talk to us, can at all and can talk to us. And looking at where we've come from, how one crisis is behind another, but our self-empathetic Prime Minister sends people to stand in line with a paper tag to compensate for their electricity bills, so every month he doesn't wash in the saunas, doesn't let them go to training, and, as I recall, quite recently, he said that there was no problem, so we can't talk about doing anything. I don't think I know what's going on. Or another: you just don't want to do the job. Because we can't see any other way, it's a practice, and that's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U141	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U142	Thank you. It is quite clear from this discussion and from the past that these restrictions do not have any logical content. The fact that rapid tests are valid as evidence of infection safety for teachers in schools, students, but not elsewhere. The fact that we have a large part of society simply excluded from life, even skating on the skating field cannot go without a vaccine passport, it is completely absurd in the context that we know that the omicron mows completely indiscriminately both vaccinated and non-vaccinated. And indeed, the only thing that shows the safety of human infection is precisely the ray test. But I'd ask you from a different angle. This division between people and society is, in fact, a clear discrimination and a violation of fundamental rights. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why don't you give us a little light from this angle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U143	Good answer, I apologize for a moment! Good colleagues, that's what it says in our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If we want, we can make a round. If you haven't circled, 60 seconds. Please, let's hold on to this. Please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U144	Thank you! A very good question again, from a very good angle. We are really talking here about fundamental human rights and about the freedom of vaccination. The current government literally uses the expression 'we do not have a compulsory vaccination'. This is a forced vaccination, because a situation where a person's job is in danger or getting in, in particular, a job, without vaccination, is a coercion. The Prime Minister is good at trying to say we're not forcing, but we're pushing. In essence, it is exactly the same and it is a violation of fundamental rights. We have, in principle, a compulsory vaccination, which is the same as compulsory vaccination. We saw what happened in the Defence Forces, the Defence League, how it happened in the Rescue Board, where in March a number of rescuers have to quit their jobs, who have not wanted to vaccinate themselves, the Police and Border Guard Board has it and has also been in hospitals. With such a view, the government has significantly weakened the internal security of our country. We don't have any more rescuers. I remember last time, it was like when the rescue units were shut down pretty much. Now that there are a lot of rescue units going down again, there are no policemen. And I'm not talking about what they're doing to businesses by placing completely illegal obligations on them and unthinking orders on them, then it's such a violation of cluster rights, using the term 'cobarcock', 'cobarcrack laws', in the case of this government, the term 'cobarcrack', and it's uncomprehension and uncobarosity and clustering.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U145	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, So I'm going to go, let's say, to more precise solutions. As far as I know, in a European country, namely Cyprus, it has been arranged that urban testing centres have been set up in close proximity and that everyone can test out of there for a small fee, and then, in the case of this positive result, they will be able to know that they are ill. However, in the event of a negative result, the bracelet will become evidence of infection safety in the next three days alongside the vaccination transgression document. And the question is, do you think there could be something like this in Estonia? And the president could congratulate me on getting my question closed 10 seconds earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U147	Yeah, well, I'm not cheap with praises. Mr. White, thank you! Really, for 10 seconds now, you saved up. Thank you very much. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U148	Thank you for your informative question. I don't know if I'm representing the whole party's position now, but I don't think this bracelet is a good idea. This is one mark. And in the case of a test, if I go to an institution, for example, I'll do the test on the spot, there's a result on the spot, and I don't see the need to start putting a bracelet on my hand. It's like a korona pass, where, as if it is, these people in this class are second-class people. There are certainly many sensible solutions. I don't remember what country it was, where it was, I think it was in Holland that it was always possible to go to the pharmacy and test itself. I guess the state paid, but you can set it up, you don't have to buy these tests at three times the price of Liina Kersna, just like the Ministry of Education did. These tests are significantly cheaper and when you buy a lot of them, you can get it at a much cheaper price. I'm sure there are solutions, but I wouldn't be doing their job for the government. We have a very, very serious Minister of Finance to let them discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U149	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U150	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, I would like to remind you that when I asked the Prime Minister during the spring of a major infection why we didn't do the same tests when we entered the country so that people could go into quarantine as soon as they were infected, he said that the most infected was at home and in work groups that we didn't need to do so. I don't know where it is at home, either in the basement or under the pillow, or where the virus is being stored. Basically, we have a situation where you can't go to South Central for coffee, but you can go to South Africa for a new strain like a tie. Is it okay here, it seems to me that a schematic is starting to be drawn here to give the opportunity to serve the people involved, such as tour operators. Is it also the conclusion here that we still have to look at who's making these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U151	Thank you! That's a good question. I can imagine how thoroughly to analyse who is most, let's say, the best turnover now achieved during the introduction of the restrictions whose business has so-called flourished and whose business has then subsided, then we would certainly get perhaps surprising results and perhaps not even so surprising. Then we would see what has been the motive for such decisions, and such illogical measures have been taken, just as it is that outside countries can indiscriminately import these strains from everywhere, and then we go and the Prime Minister walks here, swipes his finger and admonishes people to vaccinate yourself. I think so, but this analysis could really start.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U152	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! We're going to the co-report, made by Luck Hillak, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the debate that took place in the Commission. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed a draft decision of 484 on 6 December 2021. In addition to the members of the committee and the representative of the initiator of the draft, the representative of the State Chancellery, Liina Lumiste, Senior Research Fellow of Affluent Psychology at the Institute of Psychology of the University of Tartu Andero Uusberg, Adviser to the Deputy Chancellor of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs Katrin Idla and Deputy Director General of Health Board Mari-Anne Härma were invited to the debate. Just as here, Mr Kingo gave an overview of this draft proposal in the Commission, and then there was a debate on which I will give a slightly more detailed view. Liina Lumiste, representative of the State Chancellery, explained that the vaccination passport-based system, as suggested by the Scientific Advisory Board, had been chosen because testing ensures that people do not spread infection. However, this does not guarantee that they themselves will not be infected, such as outside major events, events, or activities that are not tested. In order to prevent infection, everyone should be tested and continuously tested, even if the level of infection is very low during testing, the risk remains for another severe viral wave. He also explained that the spread of infection may occur in situations where there are a large number of people who have not achieved immunity through vaccination or penetration. If there is a situation that the test has shown false negative, the risk of infection may be very high. At the same time, vaccinated people spread the virus four times less and are seriously less likely to fall ill. It is therefore possible to keep society open to those who have vaccinated themselves. On the other hand, the COVID certificate system is for the protection of unvaccinated people, as Kert Kingo has already pointed out here. The representative of the State Chancellery explained that unvaccinated people are more likely to get seriously ill and get hospitalised. When we discussed this draft decision in the Commission, 71% of people in hospital were unvaccinated. I also looked at today's results, 79.8% of the people in the hospital today are unvaccinated. Liina Lumiste stated that over-the-counter testing would help to keep the spread of the virus as low as possible, but it is very costly. The evidence-based system is a proportionate measure as it contributes both to reducing infection and to preventing hospital care. In other words, it helps to keep hospitals from overloading and from restricting treatment. The measure is moderate in nature, as most people can participate in society. It is also necessary to prevent the restriction of first aid and scheduled treatment. Kert Kingo, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, pointed out, as did his report, that allegedly vaccinated people are spreading the virus more because they are not being tested. He explained his arguments here for a long time, and I am not going to go over that again. But Liina Lumiste replied to her on the Commission that the current system reduces the likelihood of human infection. Then Andero Uusberg, Senior Research Fellow of Affective Psychology at the Institute of Psychology, University of Tartu, gave an overview of the medical certificate and vaccination. He explained that during the period of high circulation of the virus, visiting risky indoors is dangerous for both unvaccinated people and their contacts. An unvaccinated person is more prone to infection and is more likely to get more serious illness. Thus, the presence of an unvaccinated person in situations where the virus may spread is dangerous for him or her. The Chairwoman of the Commission also pointed out in the Commission that the Government of the Republic takes into account the opinion of the Scientific Advisory Board when imposing restrictions, and this moment, and, as far as I know, so far, the Scientific Advisory Board is of the opinion that rapid tests should not be accepted to demonstrate infection safety. In addition, the chairwoman of the Commission examined whether and for what reasons the Scientific Advisory Board would be prepared to re-accept the rapid tests to demonstrate infection safety, and Andero Uusberg replied, stating that the Scientific Advisory Board was not making decisions, the government was making decisions, but yes, the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board was that rapid tests should not be used as evidence of infection safety. At that point in December, the scientific council had not yet discussed the issue of using rapid tests as evidence of infection safety again. In addition, Kert Kingo also had a question about statistics, which he also pointed out here that statistics may be incomplete, because vaccinated people are not tested, which is why there is no overview of them. Andero Uusberg replied that the scientific council had discussed the accuracy of statistics. He agreed that some statistical differences may arise if the vaccinated person does not understand the disease and is therefore not tested. However, such situations are rather rare. Mari-Anne Härma, Deputy Director General of the Health Board, added that the infection and infection in public space at events had fallen considerably in the last month. There has also been a decrease in the proportion of unknown infections. He pointed out that in the decline of the second wave, people were mainly infected in their homes, and then an unknown infection, which at the time was 30 to 35% of all infections. In December, the most infectious sites remained home and family, where 50% of the infections occurred. However, the proportion of unknown infections was significantly reduced, which showed that wearing masks and asking for evidence are effective measures to control the spread of the virus. There was also a debate on allowing ski mountains only on the basis of a vaccination passport, whether this is right or wrong, given that the spread of the virus in the fresh air is lower. There Mari-Anne Härma explained that the introduction of the vaccination passport requirement for ski mountains was mainly due to the fact that, for example, the use of lifters, as well as the number of people in ticket counters and at different points, are more together and more closely combined, and this creates potentially greater opportunities for infection. Katrin Idla, Adviser to the Deputy Chancellor of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also commented on testing. He explained that testing is too low to measure the current situation when a person is in the initial phase of infection. In addition, testing does not protect people from infection. He stressed that testing and vaccination are very different measures, the last of which is the universal protection of residents in order to prevent serious illness. Kert Kingo then asked why the positive results of the rapid tests were considered reliable and negative. Katrin Idla replied that the rapid tests only indicate the current situation and do not indicate whether the result would be positive or negative the next or the next day when the person is attending the event. In addition, the reliability of the rapid tests is certainly lower than that of the PCR test. Then Kert Kingo claimed that statistics were being compiled on the basis of the results of the rapid tests. And Katrin Idla replied that the statistics were produced on the basis of the results of the PCR tests, not using the results of the rapid tests. However, he noted that there were indeed cases where the result had indeed changed and they needed a separate expert assessment. Having heard all the questions, answers and opinions, the Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: First, member of the Social Affairs Committee, Priit Sibul, proposed that the Commission support draft decision 484. Four members of the Commission voted in favour of this proposal and five members of the Commission were against, i.e. the proposal was not supported. The Commission then decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 January 2022 and that a final vote be taken. This proposal was supported by all the members of the Commission, and all the members of the Commission also supported my appointment as rapporteur for the draft decision by the Commission, Mr Luck Pillak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U154	And colleagues would like to ask. Helir-Valdor Seeder begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U155	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have here taken stock of the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, and on several occasions it sounded as though government representatives confirmed that they did not support the implementation of the negative test as evidence of infection safety, and that is also the opinion of the wise Scientific Council. However, it was either the Scientific Council or the immunoprophylaxis Council that proposed in March that tests be applied in schools as evidence of infection safety. This was precisely a proposal from experts to the government, which the government only reached in November. So how do we put these two different positions together now, what is the position of scientists or experts? And secondly, I know that Tanel Kiik is convinced against the application of testing, but Karilaid proposed yesterday testing, accepting a negative test. What, then, is the position of the government coalition? Two sides, two different positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U156	Thank you for that question. First of all, I will start with this rapid test of schools, which we also explained in the Commission, which is the difference between why schools were tested. And the reason was then that schools are a voluntary screening and are not a mandatory restrictive measure, the aim is to refer those people who produce a positive result to the PCR tests. And Liina Lumiste then stressed that even if a child or parent refuses to test, the child will not be denied access to education. Therefore, testing at school cannot be compared to the current certificate, vaccination passport, certificate, vaccination passport-based system. And as far as the opinion of different people is concerned, yes, the member of the Riigikogu is free in his opinions. As far as I know, the government has not discussed allowing rapid tests as evidence of infection safety again and the position of the new scientific council is also awaited.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U157	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U158	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This hearing you're describing here, it's actually last year. Then the omicron had not arrived for us yet, and it is actually, let's be honest, creating a whole new situation. Scientists have also said, and have already said this on a daily basis, that vaccination with omicron is no longer a problem, and no one really knows how to deal with it. At the same time, we all know that the omicron is contagious and suffering is easy. The only way to get hold of an omicron really is by rapid testing. So, then, the discussion that you are expressing here is, in fact, no longer the case, nor are the decisions that were taken at the time in the Commission. Perhaps, with regard to today and to a completely new situation, you would consider the possibility of supporting this draft decision with the coalition. That would actually be a big point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U159	Thanks for the thought. Omicron actually existed in Estonia in December, because in the Committee on Social Affairs we discussed separately the arrival of new strains in Estonia. Just for the record. But what if you think that these decisions are currently not a criminal you are entitled to your opinion. I think that the Committee on Social Affairs has made its decision and, therefore, everyone can shape their position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U160	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U161	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that the Commission partly supported the acceptance of the test as evidence and partly did not. You said that four supported and five members did not support. And since we certainly have a strong interest in the public at the moment, I would ask specifically who did not support the persons in the Commission and who supported the use of the test as evidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U162	Thank you. One moment, I'm about to take it out of protocol so I'm not wrong. It'll take a second. I can probably say by party here, but I don't think you'll be satisfied with that answer. So... Well... In other words, if I look in this hall for a second, I'm not gonna be able to find it that fast. Priit Sibul, of course, supported his proposal. Kert Kingo was in favour of this proposal. Yeah, well, somehow that line's gotten a little messy, I'm sorry. But in short, this distribution was that the opposition was in favour, the coalition ambassadors opposed. I can send you these names because... I really did have it right now, but I can't find it fast. I don't think it takes a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U163	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame waitress! You now admitted that the opposition was in favour and the coalition was against. We'll probably vote that today. But the situation has changed dramatically. You actually discussed the problem we've been through. Today, with the omicron stem, things are different, and basically rapid testing is the only way to show whether a person is currently infected or not, and this passport doesn't show much. The Swedish crown princess, who has been triple-vaccinated with normal doses and doses of effectiveness, remained in the corona for a second time in a short time. And if he had this passport to show, what would it have given to his father and mother, who also remained in the Corona? So we're in a whole new situation. And my question is whether we should not, like, wait two months or three months on such matters. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If things change very quickly in a crisis situation, then they too should be regulated more quickly and the Social Affairs Committee should be more closely involved and the situation analysed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U165	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U166	Thank you for your opinion. We did not really discuss this issue at the Commission meeting from this perspective. Yes, the situation has changed, and I believe that the new scientific council will also discuss this new situation. And I mean that we, too, if we make our decisions or support our decisions, we could still listen to scientists' opinions and rely on them in our decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U167	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U168	Thank you. Good waitress! I referred earlier to the scientific council and to the government taking into account their recommendations. Their recommendations include such probabilities and risks that they will then make a recommendation. After which several opposition ambassadors began to respond, but you disbanded the scientific council. And then somebody said that that's what it said, and it said that. But I'm asking you this way to tell me if we have any data, so that this and the next scientific council or its members can disagree and think that the test will replace the vaccines, and that now is the time to take away the focus of the vaccination. Does the Social Affairs Committee have any information to suggest that this position is somehow dependent on disbanding or not disbanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U169	Thank you for that question. The Social Committee has not received such data that this opinion has changed so that the rapid test can replace the vaccination passport.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U170	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U171	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My first question is that how competent we are at all to discuss here the decision of the competent social committee, which actually concerns the previous period. Right now we have this omnivard, some kind of virus, is, after all, a completely different and new situation right now. And you also referred several times to domestic conditions here. Let me get this straight. Fast tests at home are dangerous, knowing, for example, that most people die at home? Home is a dangerous place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U172	Thank you. I'll start at the end. I'd still like to think that home is, and I believe that a person's home is a safe place where he feels good. And we are not actually talking here today about rapid tests being somehow dangerous to life, or we are talking about whether to replace the vaccination passport with a rapid test as evidence of infection, and this is the point of discussion. And the other side, whether we should decide otherwise or discuss the new situation. There's always a way to propose a new one. Today we have this decision, which we will then vote on after a while, but there will always be an opportunity to make proposals again and then discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U173	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is becoming increasingly clear that the aim is not to control human health and to be healthy, but to impose a vaccine passport in a rigid way and thereby to control society and thereby restrict people's freedom of action. In other ways, it is not possible to explain the stubbornness with which the government and the scientific council that has become the sled of the government are trying to impose on society that the tests are not safety verifiers, but that the safety verifier is a vaccine passport issued several months ago, which does not prevent infection, infection or anyone's health. So please confirm that, now, completely frankly, because we have a public transfer from this sitting, that the Reform Party actually wants to introduce total control in society and, in this respect, excludes the use of tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U175	Thank you for your opinion. Your opinion is wrong. And as far as the vaccinees are concerned, I'll just give you my example. I've been vaccinated three times too, but every time I have a cold or a cucumber, I'll take a quick test at home to make sure that if I come here or go to my parents or grandparents, I don't put their health at risk. So what the previous waitress here said was that vaccinated people weren't testing, so that's not true either, but your argument was also wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U176	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You just said right here on the remote that speed tests are not reliable. I think I got it right. Please tell me the kind of thing that we're testing in schools when we're not dealing with reliable data. Here, in fact, the economic interest of the producers of tests for profit comes out. Tell me why we do tests in schools if they're not reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U178	Thank you. You put words in my mouth that I didn't say. And why we're testing in schools, I explained that a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U179	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U180	Thank you! First of all, I'd like to correct your claims here. I made it very clear that a lot of vaccinated people didn't test, I didn't say no one was testing. Secondly, I should point out that this proposal is being discussed in today's situation, i.e. the delegates are voting on today or should be based on today's situation. What was the situation at the time it was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs is already in the past. There's a new situation today. And thirdly, I would say that the draft does not provide for the acceptance of a test instead of a vaccine passport, but also for the introduction of a negative test. And since you could not mention here earlier those ambassadors who voted on this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to bring it out here. Four members of the Commission voted in favour of the proposal: Priit Sibul, Kert Kingo, Helmen Kütt and Siim Pohlak, and five members of the Commission voted against: Hele Everau, Toomas Järveoja, Siret Kotka, Luck Pillak and Marika Tuus-Laul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U181	Thank you for your help reminding me. I really could not find in the documents who were in the vote on how the vote was taken. But I'm also going to take an extract from this protocol about statistics and testing. It says here that Kert Kingo commented that there is an overview of how many of them are infected in the case of unvaccinated people because they are being tested, but there is no such overview for vaccinated people because they are not being tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U182	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We know that today, in fact, one of the important problems is that the restrictions we impose are either not logical or are somehow contradictory to each other. And therefore, my question is actually for you. How do you interpret it now? That, on the one hand, we understand that rapid tests need to be carried out, for example, in schools that you yourself have brought out, and I think that makes sense, but you say that accepting them is not only a reasonable proof of infection safety. Whether today, if now the great hall is voting against, or your own position on this decision, will it increase this comprehension or reduce the comprehension that we have created here in today's crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U184	Thank you. I think the system that we have today, that the proof of infection safety is the vaccination passport, is very clear. And today's decision, it depends on what it is, I can't predict what it is, if it stays the way it is now, there is a uniform and clear system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U185	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U186	Thank you. Good waitress, do you realize what kind of bucket you just stepped into when you said yes, you've been vaccinated, but when you go to your parents, you're still taking a test to make sure you don't infect them? But that's what we're talking about. This vaccine passport doesn't mean anything. The only thing that proves this infection safety is the test, and that is what we want to do, so that people can test and prove that they are not a threat to their fellow citizens. I don't understand. You act on it, but at the same time you are fighting against it. This is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U187	Thank you for that question. First of all, I do not think that caring about your loved ones and your colleagues is in any way a bucket. The fact that I've been vaccinated, that's one of my protections that I'm protecting others around me because I have a smaller chance of getting infected with the virus. Just because I'm taking a second guarantee that I'm also testing to be absolutely certain, if I have symptoms, it's a double guarantee, and that's caring for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U188	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U189	Thank you. I am also convinced that, in fact, the use of the rapid test is a reasonable instrument, especially if we live in such a pandemic situation. But my question still comes from this general national situation. In fact, I went to Sweden on 26 December, spent family vacations on a ski hill, and came back at the beginning of the new year. The organisation of society should be sought to understand. By going there, obviously on the border, the Swedish state checked our vaccine passports. There were no restrictions on the site, no masks, no vaccine passports were requested at the caterer's place. And when we came back from Sweden, it was possible to get off the ship in Estonia in such a way that no one asked for anything. It's just, it's like it doesn't make any sense what or who we're protecting from or how we're protecting from. Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U190	Thank you. This is not directly now the subject of this draft, but we have repeatedly discussed the same border checks in the Committee on Social Affairs. And at all, I am not losing the problem you have just referred to, because this same border control has been a problem, and that is what we have repeatedly pointed out, and it must be done. If you say that there is still a problem, we will certainly pass on this message so that the problem can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U191	On this question, each member of the Riigikogu has one question for the rapporteur. No further questions. Thank you! Before we go to the negotiations, the Central Party Group has come forward with a proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. And that's what we have to vote through. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group has proposed to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 2 p.m. I shall put this to the vote before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U192	34 members of the Riigikogu supported further work. We can keep working. So, let's get started... [[Hammer strike.]] To be confirmed, too. Let's go to the negotiations. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is not justified to maintain the selective restrictions associated with the current COVID. Where restrictions are not justified, they shall be disproportionate. Therefore, they must be changed as a matter of urgency, because the restriction of fundamental rights must be done prudently, not like in an authoritarian country, that we show a fist by feeling, we show strength. At present, the rights of a very large number of people to participate normally in society are being restricted and must be reversed immediately. It should never have happened that the negative tests were rejected. This shouldn't have happened. New strategies need to be found to respond to changing circumstances, and the primary method is to return fundamental rights to everyone. And it's in our hands today. We welcome the statement made yesterday by Jaanus Karilaiu that the results of the rapid tests should be taken into account at the end of January. But let's do it now, what are we waiting for? Every month, a large part of the population without fundamental rights is a radical mistake. It's a big mistake, you can't do that. The fundamental rights are not accidentally enshrined in the Constitution, but all constitutional apparatus is designed to protect them. The government is also designed to protect them. The police must protect fundamental rights. And if there is no basis for siege, they must be returned to the people immediately. The main function of rejecting the negative test is the failure of the current government and the coercive constitutional vaccination. I would point out that Article 18 of the Constitution: no one must be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. The strategy of Kaja Kallas' government has been to impose vaccinations from the beginning. That's why they took away the possibility of a negative test. Because there were still people who got into the cafeteria with real evidence of infection safety. There's no way I could have let that happen. Dissidents were to be driven away from free air, ski centers, glaciers. What dangerous people! Healing, healing themselves, proving they're healthy, they're dangerous! It's already dystopia when a healthy person has been declared particularly dangerous. Well, it's clear, right next door, it's a test to show that everything's okay. I can ski, I can glide in the open air. An example of bullying scares others to give up. Freshly came the firing of 38 police officers as if we were over police officers, military colonels. Unbelievable! Unbelievable! Modern authoritarianism was pulled like a rabbit in a hat to show me what I don't know. What was it meant to show? Power, of course. An example of bullying scares others to give up. And that's why vaccines that aren't prepared for the current strain are forced into force, much less for the Omicron. The Constitution is being rolled over, and very stubbornly rolled over. Ken-Marti Vaher also drew attention to the fact that the coronation is carried out through the koronapass. Uninjected residents...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U194	I'm sorry! An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U195	Uninjected residents are out of public life and can no longer be shown to be well by the test. He also pointed out that coercion is common practice in authoritarian countries. The restrictions should not have any hidden indirect objectives, as is the case with the current factually compulsory vaccination. Maris Lauri said nicely that forced vaccination does not coincide with a European perspective, but the same forced vaccination that he did not like takes place in front of everyone and under the direction of the government. In fact, individuals who regularly test themselves are far safer than people who are vaccinated, especially COVID-19, from the point of view of the spread of the virus by asymptomatic individuals. According to today's rules, vaccinated individuals can live up to their normal routine as if the virus didn't exist, thus inevitably helping to spread. At the same time, negative testers are discarded. If there are 20 people in the restaurant, 15 of whom have been vaccinated and 5 have been tested, it is actually possible to verify the infection safety of 5 visitors. For the other 15, we don't really know if they're infected or not. Jaak White gave an example of how the situation has been resolved in Cyprus. There are test points on the city, for 5 euros you can take a test for which you can get a bracelet that is valid for three days. By the way, in Germany, the rays that can be obtained from any building shop cost around one euro. In any case, it is good to note that in addition to the scientific arguments in support of the negative tests and the weakness of the current korona policy, the recent decision of the Tallinn Administrative Court gave 26 people with antibodies the opportunity to participate in the activities on the basis of a negative test. What did the verdict say? Because of the symptomatic COVID-19 hospitalization, those previously affected are zero, but among those previously vaccinated, 1007 respectively. There's a difference of 1007 times the difference! Edward Laane, chief physician at Kuressaare Hospital, said, quoting: "The coronal pass no longer protects. I very much believe that the restrictions must be lifted as soon as possible. Those who have decided not to vaccinate themselves could be left alone because vaccination is a voluntary decision. " Helle Everaus spoke in a free microphone at yesterday's session, who also admitted that the virus was spreading despite vaccination. Lauri Läänemets reported that there was once again a corona. The emergence of Omicron also makes it clear to everyone that there is no difference between vaccination and non-vaccination in terms of distribution. Vaccines have not been developed for this strain. Estonians travelling to both Finland and Sweden already need to take into account that the corona passport is no longer sufficient and that a negative test is required to enter countries. Due to the Omicron variant, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, Latvia, Italy, Greece, Austria, Denmark and others have imposed a negative test on entry. Today, we have a choice whether to support the freedoms immediately or more coercive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U196	Ladies and gentlemen, before I allow Mr Heliri's chair to speak, there will be representatives of the political groups on this item. So, good Henn, I expect the previous speaker also presented the position of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. I see that you have just, you have, yes, one has, yes, that you can speak on behalf of a group. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U197	I'll have eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U198	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa Party has repeatedly proposed to the government both at the level of the presidency, at the level of the council and in private conversations with members of the government that it is reasonable and responsible in Estonian society to accept a negative test as proof of infection safety. Because the current situation, though we accept the coronapas, the so-called coronapas, the people who have been vaccinated and who may also be carriers of the infection or even sick, is beyond our control and oversight. They have been given the privilege of freely spreading this disease in society and, at the same time, people who are willing to demonstrate their infection safety through testing before an immediate event and are safe for society, then they have been deprived of their freedom, basic mobility and the opportunity to participate actively in society. It's irresponsible, it's irresponsible. And it has divided Estonian society terribly. This is one of the main problems today, which has divided Estonian society. These divisions go to the families, some go from within the families, people are in a fight, people cannot move with families, they can take part in events together, even going to funerals in some cases is behind this in practice. And it is completely incomprehensible to me how the Commission representative answered the question when I asked, but in schools on the proposal of these same experts from the Scientific Advisory Board and the Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, we have introduced the test and we accept it as a negative test as evidence of infection safety and allow these students to participate actively in school activities, which is very reasonable, but at the same time we do not allow it in society at large, the justification was that in one case it is voluntary, in the other case it is not. That's a lie! Today we are talking about accepting a negative test as evidence of infection safety as an optional option alongside this so-called vaccination passport, an optional option. Whoever wants to participate actively and is ready to test, it can participate. This is not an obligation. Nobody's talking about responsibilities. What the argument was, I totally didn't understand. So I would like to continue to confirm here that the Fatherland Party supports this bill. And the proposals that the government is actively engaged in this are one of the keys to linking up a broken society now, in addition to the many other problems we have in society. But we need to take this opportunity and give people equal access to active life and social activity, let alone work relations, which are still a matter of their own and where we will probably find out the final truth, true, we must admit, by the rule of law, through legal proceedings and through judicial proceedings. But here I want to express a wider concern about the government's actions. It is not just a question of the negative tests we are discussing, whether we accept them or not. The entire government's coronal policy has failed completely. The trust in society in the actions of the government regarding the control of coronavir has completely collapsed, and it is precisely the illogical and incomprehensible and controversial decisions made by the government. This testing and acceptance of the corona pass in this form and the contradiction that has divided society, that's what I was talking about. That's one. A person who thinks about it will not be understood and will not build trust in government decisions. But let's take the same restrictions that we've been talking about a lot. I don't understand. 1500 people are allowed to take part in a field event in a diffuse situation, but in one room, in one room in Saku Suurhall all over Estonia, people can meet and there are 3000 people allowed to meet. Is this a science-based approach? Is there a lower risk of infection? Why are such decisions made when a person asks if that is the case? Why does Parliament decide that we are going to a remote hearing? Unlawfully, as has now been found through the courts. That we're going to long-distance sessions, in this hall, we're contagious to each other. And then the same MEPs go on foreign missions, airplanes where they sit for three to four to five hours 200 people together in a compact manner and there the infection does not spread. And we need to make it clear to the citizens that these are completely logical and rational decisions. Or we say vaccinate, vaccinate. And at the same time, I am also in favour of voluntary vaccination, a volunteer, I stress, in favour of voluntary vaccination in this developed situation, that it must remain a free choice for a person. If he wishes, trusts, and doesn't have any contraindications for it, please, make it clear, vaccinate. Anyone who doesn't want to, we're gonna leave him with this negative test. But if the government really wants to promote this vaccination, it will explain, it will create the necessary conditions. Implementation of the vaccination fund. Sorry, implementation of the vaccination damage fund, which we have talked about very much. We have proposed this. It is also one guarantee for a person that the government will assume greater responsibility, also take care of possible consequences, and will come to the aid of people if they are damaged. And we know that in some cases these lesions actually are. So far, we don't have a bill! The Prime Minister has been before Parliament several times. Well, there's no bill for vaccination damage. But a number of neighbouring countries have implemented it and it has justified itself. So you're gonna look anywhere... I am not going to talk here about the failed test procurement from the Ministry of Education, which is dealt with by the National Audit Office, and I understand what is currently being monitored by the Health Board, and I hope that some kind of political responsibility will finally be revealed to the members of the government. I am not going to talk about the vaccines that have been destroyed here in the cold warehouse, where it turns out that no one bears political responsibility. Let's see, some official resigns somewhere, but no one bears political responsibility. So all this government activity and all these messages, we're taking on the duration of the vaccines. First of all, it was said that in case of vaccination, 12 months guarantee, you will not get sick. Then, no, you may be carriers of the infection, but you won't get sick. Then finally, you may get sick, but you don't have that much trouble. Finally, you may be seriously ill and be hospitalized, but there are fewer deaths. This message has been devaluation. We are reporting and admitting that we have misplaced expectations of these vaccines as well. All the more reason is that we in society accept a negative test as evidence of infection safety as one measure. And trust in society through this, believe me, will increase both against the government and against those expert councils who make recommendations and who make decisions. So I call for this draft to be supported and for the negative test to be applied as evidence of infection safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U200	Thank you very much. I now ask the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Tiiu Aro. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Very hot topic, a lot of experts. Very frightening was the view that being vaccinated is like something shameful when it comes to a bracelet. That it scares me. So much for the rapid tests. The science-based view is this: the rapid test provides current information, the negative response may not yet mean that the virus does not exist, that there is no risk of infection, because the positive response is only four or five days from now, then the person usually has symptoms. The amount of virus must be sufficient. Now vaccines and the development of vaccines have actually been a world success story for several centuries. And I don't know how many of us would be sitting here if the vaccines weren't created in the world. And the aim of the vaccination is much wider than to prevent the risk of infection. Vaccination is primarily aimed at serious cases of disease and fatal illness. I will repeat what the Commission's representative, Mr Hillak, also said. 188 patients with severe COVID at the hospital today, 79.8% of them unvaccinated. Vaccination protects yourself, especially yourself, but also others a little. The rapid test will give you a momentary update, and I would like to stress it once again. But a false negative can do a lot of evil. Rapid testing statistics. Of course it is not, because quick tests are available for sale, over-the-counter, in pharmacies, anyone can do them at home, even two or three. And when we talk about health data and question the existence of tests, passports in catering and other public places, how these rapid test responses will be checked and where the data will be processed, that is also a question. Testing in schools, once again stressing, is indeed screening, screening of Estonian languages and children who have received a positive response there will be sent to further testing. And here comes the statistics. There are statistics on these rapid tests, which are carried out in an organised manner. And from time to time, it seems to me that this draft decision was spoken of as alternately and through rapid tests, perhaps sometimes thinking of both the rapid test test, the simpler type than the PCR test, and it is not quite correct either. There is a lot of talk about fundamental rights. A person has the right to health protection, that is a fundamental right, and being vaccinated is also a fundamental right. And once again, the goal of reducing serious diseases. I would also stress once again that every person must have his own awareness, and all the time to stress that someone is responsible for us, someone is organizing our lives for us, and to blame and even occasionally making false claims is absolutely not from this speech chair as correct. I would also say that I support the view that a conscientious person, firstly, has been properly vaccinated, secondly, tests himself in case of suspicion, and, thirdly, wears a mask. In this kit, we can be healthy and protect others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U202	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please! I'm sorry! Microphone for you. Yes, you have a microphone. What's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U203	Reference was made to me when the wording of the waitress was spoken, and then I felt that this applies to me, and I would like to correct it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U204	You want an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U206	Please! It's a chance you have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U207	I would correct the claim made by Tiiu Aro, as if there were talk of vaccinated people and their disgrace. The bracelets touched on the subject of carrying out negative rapid tests for unvaccinated people. And I certainly didn't use the expression "depreciation," but I said I didn't think it was the most reasonable. In the same way, I will correct the second false statement as if this draft provides for the replacement of the vaccination passport by a negative corona test and the acceptance of the rapid test. On the contrary, the draft provides for a negative test to be accepted as infection safety in addition to the existing ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U208	Thank you. And now I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U209	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, A few comments on this debate and draft today. In itself, when last year this opportunity... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's a trio conversation back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U210	Good fellows! I have a request for you. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen. I beg you. Thank you. Good waitress, I'm sorry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U211	When this corona passport system was introduced, with the restriction that it did not develop an alternative in the form of testing, I did not support it. I thought such an alternative should have remained, though, given the large number of false negatives in rapid tests, rather as an alternative to a PCR test. But I should have stayed that way. This view has also been supported by Andero Uusberg's behavioral science that one of the ideas of the really corona passports has been to encourage vaccination, but he should not cause people to feel the way he has caused in Helir-Valdor Seeder. And on this basis, one side road, which is both awkward and also more costly for people, but yet the opportunity, indeed, should have remained. As a result, this draft could also be supported. But this debate, which has been held here by waitresses and initiators to justify this draft, makes it so difficult. In fact, the biggest problem that Estonia continues to face not only these major shortcomings in the government's work but also in the illogicality of some of the restrictions that we have talked about here, both today and otherwise, I am not spending any more time on now, is that the rate of vaccination is still poor. We have not been able to protect enough people with the vaccine quickly enough. We continue to have a fresh analysis of 30% of people who have no immune protection at all, who have not been affected or vaccinated. Ten percent of society is those who have been through and who have been without a vaccine. And if we look at the target group of the elderly who causes the main hospital loads, then we will continue to have 20% of the 60+ age group without immune protection. And given the very rapid spread of infection, this is a very serious concern. If we look at our effectiveness dose, it's going very hard. And the fact that we do not speak a word in this debate about basically how a proper weekly action plan should actually be, how we can actually achieve better protection of the elderly, speeding up the effectiveness dose as a whole, including the coverage of schoolchildren with faster vaccinations, actually betrays the actual political will of the proposers, in my opinion, of the proposers, which is politically to take advantage of the real fears of about 30% of the Estonian people involved in vaccinations, and to seek politically positive attention from them in the eyes of these people. I'll have some more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U212	Yeah. You actually have half a minute, because the second half minute took me to sort things out. We'll set off the extra time immediately and count on you to have half a minute. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U213	Thank you. It is actually, I think, the biggest drawback of this debate today, that we have, after the December package of decisions, when we got the infection rate below one, the situation stabilized, the collapse of hospitals got prevented, we are continuing to move to the point that R has been 1.3-1.4. In fact, the situation is once again becoming serious. Just a nice example to illustrate. We have two tents in the Freedom Square. On the left side there is a test tent, on the right side there is a vaccination tent, and in the last week it has been possible to see how the test tent behind the door is longer than the vaccination tent behind the door. And there are two options: either we vaccinate ourselves to prevent hospitalization, or we stand there in the order of testing, and those who are not vaccinated must go to Dr. Talving and other outstanding Estonian medical staff to fight for their lives. The fact that we have not talked about this today is, in my opinion, a serious concern and problem. But now some remarks, from the surface of this debate. It had been pointed out that the restrictions were illogical. Yes, of course there are illogical limitations, the right number. Indeed, I also think that the rule of self-insulation, for example, that only unvaccinated people must remain self-insulation in close contact, is neither right nor justified. Given now how many vaccinated people pass the disease on to vaccinated people, especially in the light of the new strain, this relief is certainly neither right nor justified in the context of infection control. Once again, however, the fact that the government has also imposed illogical restrictions does not in principle mean that vaccination is bad or ineffective or unnecessary. Doesn't mean that. The government or the state can also make wrong decisions, and they have done so, but that does not change this basic principle. Now, somehow, this debate gave the impression that vaccination was of no use at all. However, recent data from Professor Fischer show that the infection of unvaccinated people, without immune protection, was twice as high per person as that of vaccinated people. Twice as big! This is a data-based fact and it must be borne in mind, so it cannot be said that it is quite the same. Of course, vaccinated people also get infected and infected, that's right. And that is the main answer to the question, where one colleague pointed out that how are twenty people in a restaurant, fifteen have been vaccinated, and five have not been vaccinated, but tested, and that is, for these five, we know that they are infectious, but we do not know about others. I don't know about these five either, because there are very high levels of false negatives from rapid tests, and neither of these instruments gives absolute certainty. We actually operate as a whole, in the context of infection control, with overall risks, population risks, we do not deal with the risk of infection for each individual. So this argument itself is a little bit of an argument. And, Mr Ceder, in the case of schools, this argument that you have raised has really not been very successful. The second argument is more important that until December, children were not vaccinated, so there was no alternative. This alternative has now arisen and I think it is also worthwhile, in this context, to assess how to ensure future infection safety in schools. This is fundamentally different from both legal and anti-infection approaches in schools and elsewhere, because there has been no other and better alternative available in schools. In conclusion, I think that the acceptance of the test as evidence of infection safety in itself could be discussed, treated. I'd prefer it was a PCR, not an antigen test with a lot of false negatives. But it is undoubtedly impossible to lose sight of the most important, which is, in fact, the promotion of vaccination. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U214	It's a procedure. Thank you. A procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U215	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I think this is a very important debate, a very fundamental debate. And I would recall the words of President Saul of Finland, Niinistö. He said the virus must be combated in such a way that we do not break society. That, I think, is also why I personally support this bill. And I hope that this draft will be supported in Parliament and will also be a binding politically binding signal to the government. But my question is that this bill does not propose a bill. What is the position of the Riigikogu's board of directors? Do we consider this draft to be adopted as the Constitution states, with a simple majority, which means that more Members will vote in favour of it, and then, by referring to the interpretation of the Riigikogu's board, it will be binding and politically mandatory for the government if we get more Members to vote in favour of it in this Chamber than against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U216	Thank you. Answer. The Board of the Riigikogu really even discussed this draft specifically and found that it was adopted if there is a majority of the composition, not a simple majority, and the majority of the composition according to my mathematics is a minimum of 51 members of the Riigikogu. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U217	We've been having this argument for quite a while, and that's a story years ago. And, as I understand it, we do not have a section of the Home and Working Procedures Act on which to rely with this interpretation, but rather an earlier practice, but rather an earlier practice that has been interpreted in the past, and that is why we act in this way. However, the Constitution states very precisely that it requires a draft law when we are talking about a majority in composition. Can it not be that if some of the members of the Riigikogu are now contesting this, we are in the same situation as these remote hearings that it turns out afterwards that we have made this decision illegally here in the Riigikogu? Would it still be more reasonable to stick to the explicit interpretation of this constitution that a simple majority of votes is sufficient, and we will change this practice so far, because there is no clause on the basis of which the Home and Working Procedures Act, I repeat, can rely on your interpretation? Or can you point out a specific section on which you claim it? [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U218	Thank you. There is also a sensible proposal for your speech or a procedural question. Here's my answer. That, yes, you are right, as this week began with a discussion of a court decision, and I think it was necessary to have a discussion on Monday in the run-up to the Riigikogu sitting, that it is always possible for a member of the Riigikogu to challenge it in the Supreme Court. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Estonia is the rule of law, we have a separation of powers. The way the court decides, we don't know in advance, and the judgments are to be enforced. Now I come to the content of this procedural question. You yourself also said that we have justified this or that it has been justified in accordance with previous practice. Yeah, that's true. In addition to my information, the minutes of the Committee on Social Affairs of 6 December have then specifically pointed out that this draft decision is a special procedure where the final vote on the draft will take place at first reading and requires 51 votes for adoption. It is then said that such a debate was in the lead committee, which is in this case the Committee on Social Affairs. As far as I know, the decision was consensual. Now, as I answered the first procedural question by Mr Urmas Reinsalu, we really discussed it on the board, it was known that this is once again the question that we have been discussing here a few weeks ago on Christmas, and all the members of the board found that in this case it should be assumed that draft 484 OE needs a minimum of 51 votes to pass. So that's how I can answer your question, Honourable Helir-Valdor Seeder. Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U219	Thank you, good Chairman! At this point in time, the monitoring of the Constitution has already been attributed to the Social Affairs Committee. I understand when the Bureau relied on the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs, which may not be at all compatible with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Maybe in a quick pace of work, a decision like this just came over, and what happens if someone challenges it in court? And the question is, why did the Bureau think that the Committee on Social Affairs was competent to decide on constitutional supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U220	Thank you. Well, the answer I gave to Mr. Seeder was not that we relied on one thing. First of all, I said that this has been an earlier practice in the Riigikogu. Secondly, I have indeed pointed out what the Committee on Social Affairs held in its own draft during the debate in its own committee. It's for information, I think, it's important. In addition, there was a discussion of the Bureau. There weren't any more of those discussions. What's gonna happen now? What happens is if it gets 51 votes, it's the government's responsibility, if it doesn't, it's not with today's knowledge. If anyone disputes this, and we have this right, we live in Estonia under the rule of law, then the court will deal with and make its decision. So I can answer that right now. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U221	Thank you. In addition to previous practice, you pointed out as an argument that the Committee on Social Affairs unanimously decided to support the sending of this Chamber by saying that this would require a majority in composition. As President of the sitting, I inform you that our group unanimously supports this interpretation that a simple majority of votes will suffice to take this decision. For you to be informed that there are different opinions and views.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U222	Thank you, Mr Seeder, for this comment or position or position. I understand that, and the argument was, like I said, a few weeks ago. Henn Põllaas, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U223	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to make a line, but I thought it would be very, very long.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U224	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but what do you want to say about the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U225	Jevgeni Ossinovski's speech was receded because I clearly recognized that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U226	The truth is... I'm sorry, Henn Põllamaas! The truth is, I have not closed the negotiations. It's true. So you can really make a line in the round of negotiations, a recliner when you're mentioned. Wait. My question is, did Mr Ossinovski mention you? There's been some procedural questions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U227	He mentioned the authors of the bill, and I am the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U228	Please, please! A mike for Mr. Field Lair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U229	Thank you! Mr Ossinovski argued that it was as if those who did this bill, well I was the author of this bill, that it would have been a desire to play 30% on our people's fears and panic. I want to categorically refute this argument. On the contrary, we want to reduce fears and panic in society by enabling people to actually prove their own infection safety. That is precisely the purpose of this draft. Ossinovski criticised why we did not address other issues in this debate, such as why vaccination has been carried out very inefficiently and poorly and so on and so on, but that is not the purpose of a specific draft. The aim is precisely that we can prove infection safety and free society and put an end to the discrimination against people and the separation of the two leaves [according to whether or not they have been vaccinated]. All the more so because we know that the corona mows both vaccinated and non-vaccinated, and this distinction is clearly against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U230	I wanted to make it clear that draft 484 OE is initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and you are a member of this group, the chairman of this group, and now it turns out that one of its main authors, as you said. So it's clear here. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U231	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Compliance with the Constitution's provision and spirit is essential. 19 days ago, the Supreme Court published a decision where it actually found a deliberate violation of the Constitution that took place in this very Chamber. And this is the first time that it has been established in the constitutional review procedure that, on the proposal of the majority of the members of the Parliament's governing board, the majority of the parliament has deliberately violated the Estonian Constitution. This has never happened in pre-war Estonia. This has never happened in the decades during which the freed Estonian Parliament itself has been carried out. And that is why it is extremely important that we draw on this sad lesson from last year and try to avoid twisting the meaning of the Constitution, which clearly states that if there is a proposal for a draft law, it requires a majority in Parliament and does not speak at all about proposals or political calls on other individual issues. I therefore make it clear that, according to the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitution of Estonia, which all representatives of the people have sworn to defend, if this proposal is voted by a majority in the vote that will take place in the next few minutes, and not by a majority in the composition, it has been adopted and, at least, politically binding for the government to comply. And if the government does not do so, it will also have a responsibility to Parliament, if necessary, to lay down its office for failure to comply with Parliament's order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U232	Thank you. Yes, I think that this Supreme Court decision to which you refer was, in my opinion, a very important lesson for me. I cannot deny that these disputes, legal disputes, how to interpret it, how to interpret it, as Helir-Valdor Seeder asked, that what is this paragraph, paragraph, paragraph, we know that there is not exactly this paragraph, paragraph and paragraph in the Rules of Procedure. There's been some argument. We have tried to have these disputes in this Chamber, we have held these debates on the board. It has indeed been, and the Riigikogu has quite often relied on its work if it does not come out of the law directly, including its own practice. The internship has been that the proposal to the Government of the Republic has 51 votes. And I can only justify it this way today. And I understand there are other points of view. I totally understand that. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U233	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I cannot, of course, say anything other than to support Urmas Reinsalu's position and to call on the Riigikogu's guidance to follow our current constitution in particular. In fact, based only on the fact that it is possible to challenge it in a court of law, and we have now taken it in practice, it may not be a pretty good approach. Of course, in which I do not agree with my good colleague Urmas, it is the first time that there has been a violation of the Constitution. Yes, it has been proven in court for the first time, but for the first time, he took place when the government of the Reform Party and the Central Party came to power, and then he took place in such a way that, as you remember, the great hall decided that we had blue black and white flags in the White Hall. It was the decision of the great hall. When the government came to power, the blue-black-white flags were removed from the big hall and replaced with the flags of the European Union, without the decision of the great hall. So that was the first violation of the Constitution in itself. So that's for clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U234	Thank you. Since it was known that this would or might be the case, right, questions in this large Chamber, in plenary, as has been the case today, we discussed this point separately in the Riigikogu's Management Board. On this issue, which you raised, which Mr Reinsalu raised, which Mr Seeder raised, all three members of the Bureau agreed. As we know, all three board members are from different political parties who are in the coalition, who are in opposition. There was no disagreement. With regard to the flags you speak of, you also know that such organisational matters are up to the board. If he doesn't find a consensus, the hall will decide. If consensus is reached, the Governing Board shall decide. In this case, all three members of the Riigikogu, who are also members of the Management Board, found by consensus. Mart Helme, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to sum up this argument with such a statement right now. Today, mainstream media is filled with the position of Jaanus Karilaid, head of the Centre Party Group, that the Centre Party supports the introduction of a negative corona test to prove safety alongside the corona passport. As it is on the agenda here that there are 51 draft votes or not 51 votes, I would ask the Centre Party Group to support the position of its chairman, and in that case there is no doubt that we will exceed the threshold of 51 votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U236	Thank you. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U237	I understand Mr Helme's pragmatism in these matters, but I cannot join the chair of the sitting with a certain voluntarism in constitutional compliance, which means that everyone has their own constitution and the interpretation of the constitution, I have my own Helir-Valdor Seeder's own, Mr. Puustusmaa's own, Mr. President of the sitting and the President of the Riigikogu's own, and everyone sit and live with the interpretation of his constitution. You don't run a country like that. We have a series of security, social and other economic crises that Estonia is facing. Do we now also want to intentionally create a crisis in the functioning of constitutional institutions by deliberately violating the Constitution? I'm warning you how dangerous it can be to even open that door. The Supreme Court gave us a warning a few weeks ago with its decision, which identified a deliberate violation of the Constitution that took place in this Chamber. This precedent has not existed in our constitutional practice for decades. And now we are going to interpret a voluntarian constitution where everyone can have their own constitution, especially in the midst of a crisis, where our platform and our foundation must be to resolve crises in an efficient, bold way, but precisely in a constitutional way. That would be an extremely dangerous precedent. I'll warn you about the way. We need clarity on what took place last December, but even more so, we need a rigid approach to the meaning and provision of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U238	Thank you. A procedural question. Quiet, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]] A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U239	Good manager! On the basis of Mr Reinsalu's question, I now ask the President of the Riigikogu how the country, the Estonian state, will be managed, either voluntaristically or... If I remember correctly, former Minister of Justice Reinsalu said that the Constitution must be read. How is Estonia managed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U240	Thank you. This is not a very procedural question now regarding the functioning of this sitting. [[Laughing.]] But let's move on, but let's move on. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U241	Yeah! Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedure, this time. And that comes from your own answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U242	I'm sorry, I'm interrupting. It was last time, too. Why do you say you insist that this time? I'll say in the interest of the verbatim that it was the last time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U243	Yeah, directly from your answer to my last question. Here you have given such an example now that, since the Board of the Riigikogu is concerned with our future operations in the same way, since the Board of the Riigikogu had reached a consensus, now we are talking about this flag issue, it is as it was decided. But here's the question. I would now like to ask for a specific position. When a large hall takes a decision, the governing board of the Riigikogu may change that decision. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U244	Thank you. I have commented on the issues that reach the hall and in which case they will not make it to the hall. Thank you. Okay. I wanted to, uh, Mr. Kruusimäe got off. Heiki Hepner, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U245	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Actually, my question is about the same interpretation. After all, we have also used this option here on the agenda that, if the Bureau does not agree, this great hall will take a stand on this. Would the current Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure allow us to vote on it first, is it a draft of 51 votes, and then we would also vote on the draft itself? Is such an option possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U246	Thank you. Not that I know of. In this case, too, the problem is that the Riigikogu Board reached a consensus that we cannot bring anything to the vote from here either. You have to be resourceful, though. I remember that Monday, Mr. Pierce got me out. I didn't want to take this break in any way, but before the agenda was adopted, Mr. Põljaas gave this opportunity, and I really took this opportunity to call, but nobody answered. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U247	Thank you. It's just, when I got here... [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U248	Thank you. Thank you for coming!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U249	If the Bureau had a consensus on this, what was the argument? I understand that the decision of the board of directors came into existence. You referred to this practice, which is 51 for these draft decisions. But since, in the meantime, this issue has really been dealt with in a very thorough way in a large Chamber under the leadership of good colleagues, have there been any other considerations besides this practice for board members when they considered the consensual decision among themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U250	Thank you. Yes, it was a deliberate decision, and those reasons I pointed out were the reason why the Bureau thought it was 51 votes, the so-called 51 votes bill. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U251	Good manager! You said you could call the Prime Minister because of a benchmate's step, but like you just said, no one answered. And I remember that Henn Põlluaas, while he was sitting, was in the same position, called Kaja Kallas and no one answered. Is it procedurally that if the President of the Riigikogu calls the Prime Minister, no one will answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U252	At that point, I didn't answer. I guess there was a meeting and there was some editing. After that, he got in touch nicely. And today the first vice-chairman of the Riigikogu gave, I understand, a great deal of information about this possible political presentation. So, now more... Oh, still is. That is what the Supreme Court's rulings said, that we need to discuss these matters calmly and take all these questions through, so I call on us not to rush into anything right now. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the event of a breach of the Constitution in December, the argument or position was that which was also justified by the Bureau, or on behalf of the Riigikogu, the majority of the board explained it to the Supreme Court that you will see that Parliament decided with the majority of the votes. And as if this formal parliamentary closure from the actual sitting took place at the will of a majority in Parliament, and that would somehow have made it constitutional. Collective conduct in breach of the Constitution, of course, is not a liability-free factor, but an aggravating factor. And also this assessment that the Bureau consensually considers that the rule of interpretation of Parliament's work against the meaning of the Constitution is collectively and unanimously such a position, which, of course, is in no way a violation of the meaning of the Constitution or an attenuating circumstance contrary to the meaning of the Constitution. So I'm gonna stick to it. I would ask for this to be recorded in the minutes, Mr President, to take into account that my interpretation of the Constitution is that Parliament, if a majority of Members vote in favour of it, will at least adopt a politically binding proposal against the government today. This is the spirit of the Constitution, and this is the principle that we must act and the government must act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U254	Thank you. I'm sure what you're saying is in the verbatim record. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U255	Thank you. When the Bureau discussed and found that we were sticking to the practice so far, that this draft needed 51 votes, or a majority in composition, as a result of the Constitution, which states 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic for the drafting of a law', was it discussed by the Bureau that, if it is formulated in this way in the Constitution, proposals of a kind other than the drafting of a law do not foresee the Constitution and that all our debate is now an extra-constitutional activity? So that there could never be such a debate. While you have already gone to a very precise interpretation of the 51 constitutions, I will repeat once again whether and on what basis we have at all to propose, in accordance with this section, a constitution which speaks only of a concrete proposal for the drafting of a law. We are now discussing a proposal where the development of a law is not expected of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U256	Thank you. No, we didn't discuss it from this angle. Priit Onion, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U257	Thank you. I don't have a question, I have a line. Since Urmas Reinsalu referred to an unconstitutional situation in the last procedural question and mentioned December there, in fact in December the Supreme Court ruled that the decision made by the Riigikogu in November was unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U258	Thank you. That too was done. Okay, call rounds. There will still be a presentation here, I remind you, representatives of the committees. [[A voice from the hall.]] If you're authorized, yes. Kalle Grünthal, your procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U259	Yeah, I thought I was gonna get involved in this...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U260	Of course. Please, Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U261	Yeah, on that question. I haven't spoken in a while. I am still of the opinion that the three members of the Governing Board cannot decide what the majority is. Since it's not regulated anywhere, you can't do it with your random decision either. And here only the majority of Parliament can be decisive. Any restrictions can only be imposed if there is regulation anywhere. It's not there right now. The internship doesn't count here. Only the result of the vote on the composition of Parliament, not some 51, can be decisive here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U262	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. That decision has now fallen. And now, no amendments have been tabled to this draft. Consequently, the final vote must be prepared. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U263	Thank you, dear George Ratas. Yesterday, I thought we were just talking about this issue that the Board of the Riigikogu cannot take decisions that are against the Constitution. Question: do you take personal responsibility? If you take it and it goes to the Supreme Court, what responsibility do you take? Don't talk about political responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U264	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 484 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U265	With the result of 30 votes against and no abstentions... the draft was not supported. [[Someone's commenting on something in the hall. Laughter in the hall.]] That concludes the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U266	We will move on to the second point, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. I ask Raimond Kaljulaid, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U267	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear colleagues! Perhaps the first question that many of you have, and I admit and admit that this question is justified, is that if there are 12 degrees of snow outside, why are we still dealing with the issue of electric drives? Then I will remind you of the wisdom of the Estonian Old People, which tells you that you will continue to run in the summer of the Rake and cart in the winter. And so must we recognize this pattern, not by law, but by the laws of nature, that seasons are changing, and also by this cold winter, spring, snow is melting, and the streets, in addition to gold beaks and spring proclaimers, are being followed again by electric shockers, bicycles, electric bicycles, and all those other means of transport whose popularity has increased considerably in recent years. Now, in the interests of pedestrian road safety, this bill limits the speed of movement of light motorists on some roads and gives local authorities the right to apply, if necessary, additional restrictions, I would stress. By the way, there is no dispute about this draft; a majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu is necessary for its adoption. I will also clarify this important point. In a short time, in a few years, our street image has changed considerably. Many electric scooters have come on the sidewalks, many companies operating their short-term rentals. And this has also been accompanied by the problem that, when planning our street network, building in cities, it has not been taken into account, knowing how to anticipate it, there are not enough separate and safe lanes and paths for cyclists and light motorists. And that's why light motorists are directed and the law provides for their right to walk on foot and sidewalks. And when this question was discussed here in the honourable Riigikogu, it was also found that it is justified to grant this right, for example, that an electric motorbike can be driven on the sidewalk, because, specifically, it would be too dangerous for us to travel it between our roads and streets today, for example, and could then lead us to tragic accidents with their means of transport. The problem is that pedestrians on the sidewalks and, among other things, parents with small children, people with mobility difficulties, elderly people, and then between them, electric scooters and bicycles travel up to 25 kilometres per hour. And this often leads to traffic-dangerous situations. This problem is not a fictional problem. In August last year, I ordered a public opinion poll on this issue, which shows that, for example, here in Tallinn, where the Riigikogu is located, more than half of the Tallinn people admit that they have felt threatened by electric scooters on the sidewalks. And the initiators of the draft consider that harmonising the speed of movement, reducing the speed of its light-mobile vehicles to a similar speed as pedestrians, would help road users to see each other better, take account of each other and reduce the damage that may occur in the event of a possible accident. Now, what is important to explain is that in today's law, too, there is a requirement for the driver of a light-mobile that he must choose a safe speed in the vicinity of pedestrians, passing pedestrians. But we all realize that this perception of what's safe, maybe different from different people, is very different. Surely perhaps the younger person who swells past an elderly person with this electric motor may feel that the speed he chose is completely safe, allowing a safe passage. For this elderly person, on the contrary, it may seem very dangerous. Or imagine ourselves as the role of the parents of a toddler. The child is a metre long, a meter high, passing by at a relatively startling speed on the sidewalks. Surely this may seem dangerous to parents. It's very subjective, the regulation of today that's in the law. Unfortunately, statistics also show that very many accidents still occur with light motor vehicles. It is pointed out that a large part of them are falls, where people themselves run into or fall into something, a smaller part are collisions, but there are also accidents. And what is perhaps still important is such a perceived sense of danger that people need to be safe on the street and that the pavement is, above all, intended for pedestrians. The draft introduces a speed limit of 10 kilometres per hour for light motion on the road and on the pavement. The current 25-km speed limit will remain valid for cycling and cycling, but the local government will have the right to bring it down if necessary, for example in terms of areas. Somewhere in the region, maybe a lot more people are moving. In the case of Tallinn, for example, foot and bicycle roads near bathing beaches, bicycle and footpaths, where there are a lot of people, very many people, very many walkers during the summer period. So this is the decision of the local government itself. The new little-known foreign language terms of the draft do not include and are generally such a simple, simple draft law, but its impact could be positive. There have also been objections to this draft in previous proceedings. Perhaps very briefly, I will comment on some of them. If you refer to the fact that this regulation concerning light road users has been introduced quite recently by the Riigikogu and maybe it would be necessary to look at longer practices, then in fact the Economic Commission has also addressed the same issue of light motorists and road safety, and I think that we already see enough today that there are really many accidents. People are also placed under the care of doctors with quite serious traumas, severe traumas. So I think we have enough to know. Then there is such an argument as to why all sidewalks should still limit this speed, so that, for example, empty roads or where there are few pedestrians may not be able to travel 25 kilometres per hour. Personally, I am of the opinion that then one might ask why we couldn't drive an empty road 250 kilometres an hour, and there are no other cars, so why can't I drive there, right? Since, in fact, most of the walkways in Estonian cities, we are honest, the area between the sidewalk and the houses is narrow enough. At any moment, a child, a person, a visitor from a shop, a visitor from a cafeteria, may leave the house by the side of the road. So if the driver feels like he's got a free way and can drive fast, it can change fast, someone's coming out around the corner. So I think that there should be a sidewalk, there should still be a guarantee of people's safety all the time. And maybe the last argument that has been used, which is somewhat emotional, but also deserves attention. It was said that this is a positive thing in itself, in the form of micromobility or such light small means of transport as an alternative to cars, motor vehicles that consume much more fuel, and that, therefore, restricting their freedom of movement or restricting their use somehow works against climate objectives. Well, I think everyone understands: the Social Democrats are very supportive of achieving the green turns climate goals, which is very important to us. I'd say it's the other way around. It would be very regrettable if, by means of such technological innovation, people sense that it is no longer safe on the sidewalk, they, on the contrary, change their movement habits and, for example, drive more by car instead of going, I don't know, walking to a nearby kindergarten or a car or a school walkway, instead of driving a car somewhere where there is, I don't know, park or beach, these walkways are no longer used. In this sense, urbanists, experts in this field stress that it is essential to approach first, always starting with a pedestrian, his safety, his comfort, and then all other vehicles come. And in this case, yes, it is more about the comfort and safety of single-vehicle passengers, at the expense of pedestrians. In short, these are the arguments that the initiators would put forward in support of this draft. And once again: now is the best time to discuss it, we can still legitimise changes or not legitimise them for this season, for the beginning of the season, when spring comes and when electric drives and other light motorists return to the streets. Thank you, good colleagues, for your attention and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U268	Thank you. There's a question for you. Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U269	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have this question: how will we monitor this? I understand that if there were ten everywhere, they would limit these rental wheels to 10 kilometers per hour. But what about the fact that in some places you can drive 25 and in some 10, how do we ensure that people are still law-abiding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U270	Thank you. I'm gonna start over. Indeed, it is somewhat easier with rental wheels. Their speed has also been dealt with in Tallinn in order to limit their speed in certain areas. This can also be done automatically so that the user cannot drive faster. But alongside the rental wheels there are people's personal scooters, and their speed is often not limited even to 25 kilometres, but is driven much faster. The question of supervision is important, and I think that supervision of this draft rather facilitates, because it is almost impossible to monitor compliance with the current provision of the law. What, then, is a police officer on the sidewalk? It's very subjective to whether or not there was a speed that allowed safe passage. When it passed and nobody got hit, it was safe, wasn't it? Well, how do you control it? Then at least we have a specific speed limit and I hope that there are instruments that can measure the speed of moving objects, or at least that such instruments can be developed with the help of good physicists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U271	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U272	I have a very specific question about the definition. I understand that the main aim of the bill is these same electric drives and mini-mopeds, but does this concept of light-mobile, by definition, extend to bicycles when they drive on the sidewalk?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U273	Thank you for that question. No, it doesn't. A bicycle is not a light motor. And here is an important distinction to which I would point out that we are talking about light motion traffic on the sidewalks. According to the current law, a light motor can drive him on the sidewalk at any time. In the case of a bicycle, walking on the sidewalks is actually limited. Whether this law is enforced in practice or not, it is a matter of course, but a bicycle is actually allowed to ride on the sidewalk under certain conditions. Light motion is allowed at any time. And their control is actually different, maybe the biggest difference is that one is still a motor vehicle and the other isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U274	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U275	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have been concerned about the safety of the sidewalks in general in many ways. One is this snow cleaning, anti-smoothing, and now we've reached the light motion. True, you pointed out at the beginning of your presentation that this is more of a summer problem. But here on the streets of Tallinn, I look sadly at the way the pack robots go crazy in snow trading and try to deliver the packages. It seems that this world is still moving towards the fact that the sidewalks must be in good shape all the time to make any room for justice. How's it going with that side? And is this snow-cracking thing somehow progressing in parallel? Because, in fact, they're very closely linked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U276	Thank you for that question. Indeed, it can be said that these issues form a whole that concerns people, especially in cities, mobility, comfort and safety. As far as specific matters are concerned, you are probably now referring to the draft made by the Fatherland, as well as the Social Democrats, in order to give local authorities the task of taking responsibility for the maintenance of the sidewalks. Under the wise leadership of Kristen Michal, the Head of the Good Economic Commission, we have agreed that the two drafts that are pending will be merged and moved forward with them. And I am sure that Mr Michal, who will come after me, might also be able to clarify these deadlines, that we will get far in January, February, with this question. I would very much like to hope that we will move forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U277	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We all know that there is room for improvement in traffic culture in Estonia. In this sense, a very welcome draft. I recall that the same subject, with regard to limiting the speed of these scooters and light motor vehicles, has already been dealt with here once, but then the matter has stopped. And that is why my question is very practical, even then it arose: how can this speed limit be controlled and administered? What would it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U279	It is in the sense of what it looks like technically and practically, right, if the legislator has expressed such a will, then the authorities that are competent for this must find these technical solutions, if they do not exist today. But I think that, actually, to measure speed, I understand, for example, the police already have certain instruments that resemble hair dryers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U280	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. I ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The author of a good bill! The Commission has discussed this draft, and I cannot do more about it at the moment of lack of time, but I am sure that we will be able to do this on several occasions. As has been the case in this Chamber, it has been said in the Commission that there is a particular concern about how people perceive light motion. Although statistics also show that a large proportion of accidents, or 77%, have been accidents in one vehicle, this perception is nevertheless important in traffic, how people perceive that traffic space is and how traffic works. And I can turn down the procedural decisions. At various meetings, it was postponed for various reasons, but eventually the hall was sent today, January 11. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading (this was a consensual decision). Well, there you go. But there are also questions, I see.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U282	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, chairman of the committee! I'd like to continue with the same subject: snow, slippery. An acute issue, also acute, after local authorities have started to tackle this problem independently. I know that Võru and the municipality of Rakvere themselves have taken steps to clear the road, just to clear the pavement. Can this draft, which is in the procedure, be linked, be linked indirectly, has this draft procedure also brought any feedback from the municipalities? Is this a welcome bill, or rather, do the municipalities say they can handle it on their own and do not need public money this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U284	Now you're trying to sew the jacket on the button again, so, I get it, put the hearing on tomorrow, or at least this point. In short, the situation of city streets also affects the scooters. If you're referring to the capital, here, of course, the situation is poor, which we all see. And elsewhere, municipalities are working hard to take over this responsibility. With regard to the obligation to push snow, we will certainly be discussing in January-February-March and, as the previous waitress said, perhaps by the summer, we will be able to get to the way life is going in the coming winters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U285	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U286	Thank you! I have this maybe more philosophical nature [question]. If the Social Democrats have also been concerned about obesity, in such a situation that people have less weight, it has been figured out that we are putting the scooter on an engine that does not really save this goal. And now that the green mark, the electricity doesn't come from anywhere in itself, it's still the kick-starting scooter itself. Did the Commission also raise a question about this? Perhaps we are working on developing an insignificant, innovative solution and legitimising it, but we could still go back to the roots: the scooter is what can be pushed with the leg.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U287	Thank you. We did not have such a debate. However, walking and its safe provision are essential, especially for weaker and vulnerable road users with faster-moving electric drives, as they are called, and they are linked, and we will certainly discuss this further.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-11_U288	Thank you, good waitress, no further questions. We can start tomorrow's session with the continuation of this item and the question of whether we want to open negotiations. The sitting is adjourned.
