ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Happy Question Time Watchers! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Let's start the 16th March briefing. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U2	18 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 83 are missing. The following ministers will take part in today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. We have now been asked about nine questions, and I have a request that we make sure that there is one specific question for each question and one additional question. Do you agree with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U3	Let's get started. Question one. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is the situation in the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U4	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have been away from Estonia for a long time and have travelled around the world, and in the meantime the situation in the country has changed unknown.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U5	I'm sorry for a moment! Good questioner, let's make sure I give you two more minutes to ask. I have a request that you may be able to say your question directly to the microphone if possible. And if our technical staff is able to raise their voices in this room. So, good questioner, Helle-Moonika Helme, please, let's start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U6	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'll try to speak as loud and as clearly as I can. Let's start over. You have been away from Estonia for a long time and have travelled around the world and, in the meantime, the situation in the country has changed very quickly to the unknown. I'm talking about a massive refugee of war arriving here. At first, when Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo said that there are 2 000 refugees available to Estonia and municipalities, the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, has now said that this figure could eventually be 100,000. Your stand has been heard as in the famous song of the ferns: "Come, all of you!'. Yes, there is a war going on in Ukraine, and it is perfectly understandable that people are fleeing the war. We've all seen these heartbreaking images of broken homes, and it's perfectly understandable that these people are temporarily better off than under a bomb blast at the moment. But let me remind you that Estonia's own population is just over a million and we have only 900000 Estonians with something. Clearly, here we should have a very clear plan on how to act in this situation. Just as it has now become that the state has absolutely no overview of what is going on, and random relief organisations are driving thousands of people from Poland on buses a day, throwing them out on the municipal court, and going after the new company, this activity is not absolutely sustainable either from the point of view of Estonia or from the point of view of the people who are being brought here in this way. It is quite clear...... that we will not be able to provide such a number of public services for as long as foreseen. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or if we do, it comes at the expense of our own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U7	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U8	How does your government intend to find this extra money? Health services, which have so far been chronically underfunded, to provide all arrivals...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U9	Good questioner, I'm really sorry, but your time has passed for 24 seconds. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U10	Yeah. What's the government's plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U11	Yeah, hi! First of all, it is good to see you back in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Last time you walked out so dramatically with the whole group, you said you were boycotting me, you didn't ask me any more questions. But you're back in your full goodness. Secondly, I have not been away from Estonia for a long time. I'm always here in Estonia. Yes, indeed, I must go to meet other NATO leaders. There has also been the European Union Council, where we have discussed precisely these same defence issues, refugee issues, issues related to the war in Ukraine, and it is very important for Estonia to be around these tables as a small country. It is a pleasure to note that our opinion is being listened to and that our opinion is being taken into account and that we are considered important in this respect. Now, about the refugees. Indeed, there is a war going on in Ukraine, and people want to escape the war, and refugees have come to Estonia too, although we are not a country bordering Ukraine. And really, people, the people of Estonia are very heartfelt, everyone wants to help, and many have channeled this help in order to go to the border and bring these people here. The leading members of your own party have also brought these people to Estonia by bus. You can't blame people for wanting to help. At the moment, all energy should still be aimed at helping people who are already here, because, I absolutely agree with you, Estonia is a small country and there are certain limits to our resilience. We're a small country, a small language, a small culture, and that's what we have to protect. We also need to see that we can cope with the number of refugees who all need help here. Currently, 22617 Ukrainian citizens and their family members have arrived in Estonia. There are 5662 people in transit who are going somewhere else. And your claim that we have no overview is not true because we collect this information at borders. We're gathering information about where people come from and where they go from. And now that we have an emergency in place, under the direction of the Police and Border Guard Board, we have a joint command to help these people in different municipalities. And of course you can't say that we have... I mean, we had a plan, but the other thing is how this plan is going to work in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U12	And now one more question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I guess this need for help is very clear and the situation is very difficult, we understand that well. And I understand, and we all understand that the 22000 who have arrived here are also trying to spread out on Estonia. This means that all of this actually requires additional funding. As far as I am aware, the government has allocated some money for this, but this [amount] is insanely small, allegedly amounting to EUR 63 per refugee. Since [the refugees are] 22000, there is a simple mathematical calculation that 1.4 million divided by 22000, so it should be. How does the government plan to increase this funding? Or does the government even have such a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U14	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U15	Thank you. Most people who have come come come to their family members or acquaintances, and only 4,000 people have needed this accommodation directly. But the truth is, there will be costs associated with refugees. And at first, since we didn't know how many of these people were coming, we allocated this kind of initial amount to cover these costs. But yesterday we had a six-hour meeting of the cabinet, where we, among other things, mapped out all the needs that have arisen with regard to refugees and which are likely to arise. For example, we know that more than 8 000 of these refugees are children; these children also need education. How can this be arranged? And it's gonna take extra money. So we have mapped out these financial needs and we would like to make these decisions on the costs of helping refugees quickly here in the coming days precisely to give certainty to the local authorities, who are helping people, that their costs are covered and there is nothing left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U16	And now the point to be clarified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said you had an overview, but Kristian Jaan and I met in the group and it became clear to us that there was no real overview. This inspection of cars at four border crossing points does not really give any insight. But we're still coming back to the money and the budget. We have been discussing the need to increase the cost of defence here with you for a long time. Now Martin Herem has said that if we want to fill the power gaps and be ready for a possible attack, he needs a billion. Similarly, when we are talking about this 100,000 potential refugees, maintaining such a number of people will also require a billion over the course of the year. Returning to the subject of these war refugees, I saw yesterday, there was a clip on the news, where the officials of the Tartu City Government, led by the Reform Party, were also absolutely required that, well, for a month, people are in the hotel, but after that there is nowhere to put them. The rental market in Tartu has 300 free apartments, which costs 500 euros per apartment plus utilities. They couldn't tell us where to put these people and who would cost them all. Do you have any idea how to proceed in this situation, or do you think it is enough just to say that these people have suffered a lot, we have to help them and we have to manage? But how much to help, how long to help, where will this money come from, and how do you intend to arrange everything in such a way that our own people do not suffer from all this chronic shortage of public services?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U19	Thank you. As I said, this situation is new, so many people in a day or in a week or in three weeks. All the people who work in the country are doing something, nobody is sitting around waiting for 20,000 refugees to come and I can deal with them because I have done nothing before. Maybe it's all on the account of other officials. Therefore, of course, it takes time to get these things going at first. Now, these people have received temporary protection at European level, which means that they have the same rights as the people of Estonia. How long will these people stay here? Of course, these people themselves will also want to go back as soon as possible when this war is over. But when this war is over, I don't know what to say right now. I would say, as we have taken into account, that we must rather think that this need to help these people here is a long-term one. Of course, local authorities have also not been seated or expected to simply have empty accommodations if there are such a large number of new people. Also in schools. If we're going to school in the fall, I don't know, 10,000 new kids, it hasn't been taken into account. Can't be counted because this situation came about overnight, on 24 February. Well, you knew there was going to be a war, but for example, I didn't know in that form, and I was very sure, or I was hoping that this war wouldn't start. Perhaps you had all your plans in place, but since February 24th, when this war began, things have changed capitalically. The situation in Europe has changed capitalically. I can't say I got ready for that. Yeah, we've been prepping for a couple of months, going through all these plans, but one thing is the plans on paper, and the other thing is how these plans are gonna work in real life. For example, the profile of refugees. The war refugees that come to us now from Ukraine are 39% children and 45% women, 16% men. Also an age structure we now know who they are. It turns out that on a very large scale there are children who are just children of school age. And all these problems. We didn't know that until this war started. It just wasn't possible. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Everyone hoped there wouldn't be a war, but unfortunately it did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U20	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U21	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Helir-Valdor Seeder, answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is a security crisis. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U22	Thank you. Prime Minister! The current government has faced enormous difficulties in resolving the various crises, and I would say that they have failed. This concerns the implementation of restrictions on the corona crisis, which have been completely illogical and ineffectual, then the scandal of the purchase of tests, which is still being monitored and on which the National Audit Office has expressed extremely sharp criticism, or the unsuccessful implementation of the koronapass and so on. The same concerns the energy crisis, the implementation of measures that were late and bureaucratic. And now we have reached the refugee crisis, where this initial phase has also been rather, let us say, uncoordinated and initially very poorly resolved. I hope the situation improves. My question is that the Latvian state, alongside us, has acted somewhat more operationally. On the initiative of the executive, they have already been able to adopt a law in Parliament, which, well, has provided clarity on certain issues, not once and for all, and the situation is very volatile, as you yourself said, but has given some clarity. We have half of the refugees who have come so-called completely uncoordinated through acquaintances, families, on their own initiative, whatever it takes. And they are divided across Estonia into different locations and local authorities are today dealing with them in very different ways, uncoordinatedly, and they do not know at all what the national plan is, what the state funding is and what the state is taking over. My question is: when will local governments be able to find out what expenditure the state is prepared to cover, both retroactively and in the future? It concerns accommodation, catering, many other expenses. When will the government come to this decision? It is extremely important that local governments know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U23	The crisis is going to hit everyone unexpectedly, that's why, first of all. And I would just like to say that we were preparing for the security crisis earlier. I am simply reminding you of 21 January when I made a political statement here, because we had made decisions to put additional money into security so that we could go to procurement to strengthen our national defence. I remember this debate here, where both you and the EKRE did not want to know what the Minister of Defence felt about this matter, and rather the mood in this Chamber was that it was not a serious issue. Therefore, I say that we have been prepared for this for a long time. Now, as far as this law is concerned, at Parliament's level, as far as refugees are concerned. We also had a draft law prepared to make the necessary amendments to the Aliens Act, but we did not come up with it because we knew that this temporary protection regulation would come at European level and that it would allow for this temporary protection regulation, where all Ukrainian war refugees who came to countries after 24 February would receive temporary protection, and that means that this legislative amendment was not needed here in this form. Now, the difference between us and Latvia is that since we have restored border control, we also have an overview of these people. Like I said, when 22000 people come, 4,000 of them need accommodation, the rest go to people, to their families or to acquaintances who are already there. Therefore, for example, the Latvian numbers are very small, but do they also correspond to reality, do they have information about all the people who are there? Now, as far as costs are concerned, yes, I absolutely agree with you that the costs that arise must be reimbursed. And there's two sides. On the one hand, there are estimated costs, for example the local authority provides inevitable aid; there is a certain number of people there. If this number of people increases, then there is just a minus in the state budget. This has not been taken into account. In any event, this cost must be covered by the State. And then the second is all the unaccountable new costs that have arisen. Like I said, we've mapped them. Yesterday for six hours we discussed these issues and we wish to make these decisions in the very near future, hopefully tomorrow, in order to give this fortress, but I can repeat this signal that, of course, we will help in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U24	A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U25	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. When working in the Riigikogu, should we be guided by the Home and Working Procedures Act or by any other initiative that one or the other minister himself wants? I refer to what the Prime Minister said in his reply that as if some members of the Riigikogu, or even entire groups, were not interested in the presence of the Minister of Defence in this Chamber. That's not true. Who remembers this debate and the argument was that it would be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. And there was an argument about that. So we are ready at any moment to listen to the Minister of Defence, whether it is Question Time or whether it is an inquiry or another format, or if he wishes to take this opportunity to come with a political statement that the Minister of Defence has not wished to do. I guess the situation is not so critical in the Minister for Defence that he should come here with a political statement. That's been the problem. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U26	Thank you. You have rightly understood that we are working here in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. A procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U27	Thank you. I also have a procedural question as to whether the honourable President-in-Office simply has such a short memory or whether he did not want to make another remark to the Prime Minister that his comment on this particular point, which was also touched by Helir-Valdor Seeder, was not relevant. We were very looking forward to this, I remember, this constructive overview and we wanted answers to the questions, but we did not get it, unfortunately the Prime Minister had not prepared it, the Prime Minister was not able to answer the questions adequately and tried to roll out the Minister of Defence for us in violation of the procedure. We would have liked to have listened to what the Minister of Defence has to say, because the Minister of Defence is probably better placed than the Prime Minister. But the procedure didn't allow it. That, of course, is what you told Helir-Valdor Seeder. But sometimes, if you have a memory that works, make a note to the Prime Minister, if he comes back to tell this story again, he's been trying to say it here for several times. Why don't we cut it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U28	Thank you. I guess I'm trying to make my memory work better, but now that I'm trying to think about the political statement that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas made, there were questions and there were answers. Thank you. But now let's move on. Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U29	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that in the coming days, the municipalities will be able to find out what costs the state will be compensating for. And I think it's very important. As regards the fact that the Estonian state has a good overview, I think that this overview is certainly better than Latvia and Lithuania, which have not introduced such random checks at the border, because there are no border controls at all checkpoints in Estonia, and there are people coming freely from there without anyone registering them. So this review is not complete, of course, could be better. As far as housing is concerned, I think that a large proportion of refugees, who are enthusiastic and taken on their own initiative temporarily to their families, I dare say that most of them will later still fall on the shoulders of the local government and the state. This is [only] for a while because people cannot support these refugees at the expense of their families. We must take into account that this burden will be increased. Now, you said the government has a plan of action. Would it be possible, and where would it be possible to familiarise members of the Riigikogu, the people of the municipality and the entrepreneurs who want to know what the plan is? And secondly, school is very important because the proportion of children among refugees is very high. The chancellor of the Ministry of Education has probably stated the general attitude of the Ministry of Education that children of refugees are wanted to be placed in Estonian schools. Is this a government decision, and that's what they do? So what's it gonna look like? Will it be implemented immediately? And is that true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U30	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U31	Yeah. This plan, which we have discussed, is in many parts. In this sense, I believe that if the members of the Riigikogu wish to familiarise themselves with this plan, this opportunity will certainly be created. But as I say, one thing is a plan that's thought through on paper, and the other thing is how it's gonna work in real life. At the moment, there is an emergency because of mass immigration, and the Police and Border Guard Board is in charge of this emergency, this is how it happens. Yes, I agree that perhaps we do not have a complete overview, because we do not have any information about those people who came before we restored border controls. And there are definitely more [such] people. I agree with what you are saying that at first there is enthusiasm, people help, but I would also appreciate that we have to be prepared for a longer period, and in that case it still has to be on the local authorities to help these people. And like I said, let's make these decisions so there's a fortress. As for the children of refugees, yes, yesterday we discussed this at length and made a decision by the Cabinet that these children should be directed to Estonian-speaking schools. It is for this reason that in order to succeed in Estonia, you still need to speak Estonian. If we take the perspective that yes, if they can, they will go back, but in case this [time] should linger longer, they would still integrate into Estonian society in such a way that they can speak Estonian and manage in different places. So that would be an idea. For example, yesterday we discussed the fact that children will have the bounty that schools will receive, that there would actually be an opportunity for children who will be so much more at the same time to make a new school. If there is a choice between making a new Estonian-language school to which these children are going, or transferring them to Russian-speaking schools, our choice would be that we make a new Estonian-language school so that children can learn all the Estonian early, even if they go back to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U32	And now one more question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U33	Good manager! Prime Minister! After February 24, according to the Minister of the Interior, 450 men of 18 to 60 years of age have arrived in Estonia, and there are currently 2020018 to 60-year-old men here as migrant workers. And the 16% that has come back to what you're referring to means 2,400, so that's 2,350. And my question to you: has the government done anything to make some of these men go to defend their homeland at the request of President Zelensek, but not here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U34	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U35	Thank you. We have an overview of those who come, and indeed, of those people, as I said, 39% are children, 45% are adult women and 16% are adult men. These numbers that you have of the people or men who are here, I think, aren't true just because we don't monitor how many men go back. And there are men who have gone to that war who have brought their families here and gone to war themselves. My assessment is that these men are not actually here as much as you say at the moment. And indeed, we have also asked why the men are here, and the reasons are different as to why they cannot participate in warfare. As in Estonia, I do not know, not all men are military judges for health reasons [or other]. These reasons are given, but of course we do not check whether these reasons or evidence are true. But really there are different options. So, in this respect, I owe the answer precisely to these men, how much has gone back to fighting for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U36	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U37	Yeah, thanks! If the Prime Minister doesn't know, it's very bad. Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani sent us writing all these numbers and there was also this number, how much has gone back, it was 700 with something. If you do not communicate with your minister or the Minister does not communicate with you, then things are very bad, and we, as the EKRE opposition party, must do your job. It's already epidemic anyway. But let me tell you, we have all these numbers, they're true, they've come from the Home Office, they're all written separately. Then ask the minister yourself and deal with these figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U38	Okay, thanks. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U39	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, and met by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, and the topic is foreign workers in agriculture. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U40	Good manager! Minister for Rural Affairs! The spring is coming, and the cry of trouble a few years ago, that the strawberries will rot, probably this year will be gone. My question to you [is] that, as I understand it, the leader of the gardening union estimates that there are about 3,000 jobs and tables and more. My question to you is: do you have any information about the company of the current Ukrainian war refugees who have come here and who will be added before spring have enough temporary labour [for this work] to offer in the fields and in the barns and in the countryside in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U41	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U42	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Of course, we have been in contact with businesses both in agriculture and with the unemployment fund. And if we are now looking at the latest statistics at the moment of demand, then indeed, at the unemployment fund on 15 March, there was demand in agriculture for about 300 workers. When the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade conducted a survey among its companies and among its members and asked how many workers felt that working hands were needed in the near future, it was just over 1100 jobs. And in the same way, they offered more or less equal accommodation. It is certain that, if we look at agriculture in a broader sense, we will also bring fisheries and forestry aside, although they are treated equally in terms of labour in certain statistics, it can be seen that agriculture certainly needs the most additional labour in terms of seasonal work. And that is why we are definitely going to do this additional monitoring. As the Prime Minister said, the proportion of male labour coming to this country is relatively small, which does not mean that people would not have the opportunity to get a job here and therefore reduce the burden on the Estonian taxpayer. The second part is to get better socialized and self-sufficient. But surely we can't rule out that there are problems. But I hope that the kind of crap that was done to the strawberry growers at the time will certainly not happen again. And according to my information, the results of last year's strawberry growers were definitely better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U43	Now, one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Rural Affairs! You are so competent that I dare ask, because no more questions have been asked to you today. This has nothing to do with the real workforce, but this issue of labour may also come up with it. What is the situation really like getting and getting fertilisers? This is not just a matter for one county, it is a topic for all of Estonia, and you certainly have a vision here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U45	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U46	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Indeed, if we look at the Kremlin's aggression against Ukraine and what it has literally done to various logistical chains, i.e. as an input to business, then [it should be taken into account that] the proportion of fertilisers imported from Russia was close to 70%, with some fertilisers even higher. This means that it is currently being said that there may be a shortage of 10.20% of fertilisers in Estonia, purely logistically speaking, depending on entrepreneurs. In fact, both farmers and farmers themselves are looking very clearly for alternative solutions. I also know that some companies have long-term stocks taken into account, but this cannot be said of [every] particular company that may have problems. Of course, in the case of such crises, entrepreneurship, as such, is trying to reorganize very quickly. This may or may not mean that these inputs could become more expensive. Because one of the [cause] is that Russia's share was certainly high, both in terms of price and in terms of proximity, when we talk about logistics and these costs. However, not all the imported fertiliser that came to Estonia remained in Estonia; there was also a certain share of reprocessing and export. According to the latest data, this amounted to up to 30% for some products, so if 100% came in, then 30% could go out. So your question setting is correct and companies and importers are very serious about it, and certainly those who have been offering fertilisers to Estonia or to Europe or to the Baltic States to date can do so now. It's just a question of price.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U47	And now, please, peter ernits, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U48	Good manager! Good minister! Since the beginning of the war, over 3000 men aged 18 to 60 have come to Estonia. And now, if you come back to the company [of all the war refugees], do you have any information on how many of them are really rural people or those who are accustomed to doing land work? I have these records that most of them are so-called urban people. Many fields remain unsowed in Ukraine. There are very few people in the countryside among [the refugees]. Do you have any other data?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U49	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U50	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! When I was in contact with the Ukrainian Minister for Agriculture, his two greatest concerns in his country's view were, firstly, that there was hope that farmers who are on the front and are alive would ever reach the field, although probably not this spring, and, secondly, that very many of them had died. This actually means that statistically may even be right if we look at the course of the war, that there may have been and will be refugees in the urban area, refugees in the war, more than in rural areas, because the cities are bigger and this proportion is greater. But this does not mean that we a priori say in advance that those people who have the opportunity to work in Estonia and who want to work here because they come from the city do not have the skills and the ability to do rural work. After all, these paintings are divided in many different ways, with lighter and heavier jobs. True, some jobs require better qualifications. But what is known is that the farms already said in the first week that their workers who were officially here began to leave precisely to protect their country. And it must be acknowledged that the bravery of Ukrainian troops has certainly surprised and emulated the whole world. So I expect all the people who are supposed to be in military duty to do it. But we have to solve the labour problems here. And we also need to understand those people who have just arrived here that maybe in the very first few weeks, they can't get to work right away based on emotions and the time of admission. But the status of temporary protection also gives them a chance to get in, and we have a chance to ease it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U52	Let's move on to the next question, that's five. It is presented by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is trade with Russia and Belarus. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U53	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! On Monday, we in the Riigikogu adopted an appeal to the parliaments of other countries, where one of the important calls was for the immediate imposition of a comprehensive trade embargo against the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, which would limit the ability of the aggressor states to wage war. This must be accepted in every way, because we know that the war machine feeds on the goods that the aggressor states sell to the rest of the world. And I want to wish you strength and good luck in order to explain to our allies, both at the level of the European Union, NATO and in the wider world, why it is urgently necessary to find ways to impose this trade embargo or to limit it to the maximum. But my question is based on the knowledge that Minister of Enterprise Andres Sutt proposed to the Ministry of the Environment a temporary increase in cutting volumes. At the same time, I read from the Postimees today that, on the pretext of the Ukrainian war, the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association is demanding an increase in the volume of logging in the state forest and the continuation of cutting during the nesting season of birds, although Russian timber arrives in the rising volume of Estonia and the argument about the void of warehouses is not true. It is claimed that the warehouses are more full than they have ever been, and it is also claimed that if imports are interrupted, the reserves of the private forest should be sufficient. My question to you is: when will the export of timber from the aggressor countries actually end and how acute is this forest and timber industry association's concern? And where do you think this balance between nature conservation and the needs of the forest industry should lie?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U54	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U55	Thank you. I very much agree with you that really, the European Union is an economic force, and in the toolbox of economic power, it is that the taps from which this war machine is actually powered can be turned off. Europe has acted quickly with other countries here, including the United States, Canada and Switzerland, in order to impose different sanctions. To date, the fourth package of sanctions is already together and is constantly being supplemented. At the table of the European Council, too, when we spoke, everyone understood the same thing: we need to look for more places where we still have to shut Russia down. I might also want to correct it, that there around the table this understanding is in fact [there is] that such harsh sanctions are needed. That is why this persuasion work does not have to be done very much, but, of course, when we go into details, the question arises that it is always seen that it does not hurt your economy too much. In 2021, Russia accounted for 9% of imports of timber and timber products. However, in the case of lumber, there are all kinds of different groups of goods here, it was even 50%, worth EUR 281 million. Well, certainly the timber sector is not the sector that goes directly to the war machine. These sectors, which are closely linked to the country, are very much related to energy. Now, about the felling volumes. Indeed, the subject arose yesterday. There is a sector that wants to get more of this material from Estonia, and on the other hand, of course, it is nature conservation [aspect]. We agreed with MKM and the Minister for the Environment that there would be a united vision of the government, which is the golden midway. At the moment, we have not made any such decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U56	And here's a very specific question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U57	I'd like to move on to the same subject, but a little bit into another area. People in South-East Estonia have described that, on the one hand, we are trying to find different ways of help for our Ukrainian friends, including, for example, the off-road cars that are needed in the area. We just saw the news of people donating used ambulances and so on. But all of this we can do in a very limited way, and it is largely linked to a private initiative. At the same time, they also regularly see car drivers from Koidula border crossing squirrel towards Russia. This raises the question of whether this is the right thing to do. I understand these people very much, of course. Can you tell us when we will stop exporting cars to Russia? What is behind it now that they continue to go to Russia? Is this a question of our own will, or is there a need for a broader agreement here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U58	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U59	Thank you. We are not, of course, the exporter, in the sense that we do not have a car industry, these cars are passing through here. But we have had a discussion with the Polish and Baltic Prime Ministers about really restricting this road transport. The question is whether we can take such steps at European level. This also concerns ports, port closures for Russian goods in general or restrictions on purely road transport. At present, it is at such a stage that experts from all countries interact with each other in order to find the way in which it can be done and in what form, or in what extent, it is possible or reasonable to do so. So I do not have this specific answer right now simply because it is working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U60	Thank you. And now one more question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U61	Good manager! Prime Minister! As I understand it, you think that due to the contraction of this Russian timber, we need to start cutting more forest in Estonia as well. But we have things like the forests of the KAH areas in the immediate vicinity of people, where people are often disturbed by the way they are managed. During the period of call, there were also forests near roads and people that were not cut, but it was in a national defence sense. My question is this: given that maybe we will also have a martial law or a state of affairs at one point, I hope that there will not be a situation, should we also give guidance now, so that, in these so-called KAH forests, they will not, under any circumstances, be touched and near roads and such infrastructure, but do so further away?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U62	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U63	Thank you. First of all, I want to correct this: I have not said that we need to start cutting more woods. As I answered the question here earlier, this topic really came up yesterday and it remained to be said that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are discussing these problems and are also coming to the office with this debate. So I'm not sure you're gonna have to start chopping more woods. And when it comes to where to cut the forest and how much to cut the forest, we have actually agreed different rules for that. There, too, are actually taken into account for these protective purposes. After all, with all possible steps, we are looking at the whole picture, whether in renewable energy or in other areas, of what this is all about. So it's accounted for.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U64	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U65	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Heiki Hepner, answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is war refugees. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! The Ukrainians are bravely fighting with Russia for their country's independence, and Estonia has supported them in this tough fight in different ways and I think very well: providing arms assistance, raising questions, making appeals to its partners in the European Union and NATO. Unfortunately, this barbaric war has also led to a huge humanitarian disaster and a flood of refugees. More than 20,000 refugees have already arrived in Estonia. I understand that the arrival and handling of such a large number of refugees is a challenge, but it seems to me that here we are already losing our heads a little bit. In essence, then, let's say, legally correctly they should be called applicants for temporary protection, such a whole package of subsidies with legalisation in Estonia and here also with the corresponding operations at the police station. Last Wednesday, we met in the Group with your government's Minister for the Interior, who confirmed that there will be no problems, that there will be a separate flow of information for those who come from Ukraine, where they will be able to carry out their documents and that [opportunity] will be in every county centre. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Last Friday it was in five counties and the first leisure time was in Tallinn, for example, mid-April. Now more has been made at the beginning of this week in Narva and the first possible free time in Tallinn has shifted to the middle of May. And here's the question: How do we get into this situation, that we can't predict what we're doing for a day and a half? And then what do you do, do the people of Kuressaare really have to go to Narva, or do you see that this problem should be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U67	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U68	Yeah, thanks! First of all, I want to say that the Police and Border Guard have launched this emergency plan to help war refugees, took over crisis management, and since then there have been changes. These reception points are also [now] at the Ikla and Valga border crossing points. With regard specifically to documents, indeed, yesterday we received an overview that these times are so far away. There is also the problem that one time is often written down, but for example, a mother comes with two children, then that time stretches even longer. The question was exactly how we could get it faster, and it was promised that it would go faster. Now, how does he get faster? In these reception places, in different municipalities, this possibility will also be created immediately on the ground. The Police and Border Guard Board will go there quickly to take care of these documents. And now, if you look at it again, of course, the number of refugees that have come is very large at the same time. That is why there are delays, but as you are suggesting, these times are abnormally long and they must be made shorter. Such a guideline was also given. Now, there are still some other concerns about how we're going to deal with them. I do not agree that there is a suspension, on the contrary, as we also have crisis headquarters in regions where there are local authorities with the Police and Border Guard Board, where this information is given directly. This information, of course, in time also really quickly changes, creates additional opportunities and the whole crisis is very dynamic. As I said earlier, we are creating opportunities, together with local governments, to provide children with additional education in Estonian so that they can continue their education. We are also looking for ways to provide housing, because I agree that if people have come to their acquaintances too, this is not a long-term solution and must make sure that these people can do it. So there's a lot of troubles. These things must be resolved with local authorities and best practices found, and this bureaucracy made faster at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U69	And now the point to be clarified. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! You responded to Helir-Valdor Seeder that the government has actually been preparing for this crisis for a long time. And indeed, when we think back to the beginning of the war, it's been 20 days since this terrible war began. Luckily, we here can still plan and do our job without the bombs and missiles exploding. At the same time, the municipalities operating in the so-called field are in the information lockdown. And here you can view the information they need as very multilayered. One is a very important half of the costs and the other is all the other operations necessary for people to cope. When I looked at when these information days were to be held, the additional information days that should systematically dissect all of this, the Rapla information day, by the way, Prime Minister, will take place on 13 April. I repeat: April 13th! Well, at first I thought it was just not possible, it's a mistake. But yes, it really is. And really the question: When will the municipalities get [information]? You gave a little hope that their expenses would be covered, but then what would be covered, how would the accommodation costs be covered? The problems of schools and kindergartens are a serious issue. You can still make the school work on another shift if you have to, you can't change the day care centre. How does the redistribution of residents take place? These questions could well be used for operational information so that municipalities know how to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U72	Thank you. It is bad to hear that local authorities are in the loop because we already have regional crisis committees operating from the previous crisis. The regional crisis committees have all the representatives of local governments. I myself have been to these committees, we have the North-Estonian Regional Crisis Committee, the South-Estonia, East-Estonia and West-Estonia Crisis Committee, where all the municipalities are [represented]. And that information will be shared there. As I say, this information changes a lot. It really isn't normal that this information day is April 13th. If there's a problem with the flow of information, I'll take the information with me on how we can make it better. All the questions you are asking are very correct questions. I said that yesterday for six hours we discussed these issues: different costs, which steps need to be taken. Fortunately, we have ministries who are responsible for different issues. For example, the Ministry of Education and Research. From yesterday, we have a better overview of this distribution among the war refugees. For example, we did not know that 39% of them were children, 45% were women aged 18 to 65 and 16% were men aged 18 to 65, which means that they are adults, working-age people. We used to think there was gonna be more older people, and then we'd need a whole different kind of help. We figured there'd be about 20% of older people, but there won't be any reality. Rather, we have children. Another emphasis, which means that we have to rethink these plans again, which were previously accounted for differently. So this is a crisis that we have all been hit by, after all, completely novel in this regard. And these are the new problems that we are increasingly looking for, and we are also trying to keep the local government with us. And the other way around, for example, is that local authorities who actually deal with people are going to have these real problems. No, for example, the topic of money exchange, all kinds of topics that people have ♪ it will be reflected back to us. We will see what these solutions are, what we can do nationally. So, unfortunately, it works very dynamically and in cooperation, but I hope that these things will get better and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U73	And now one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In part, when you answered Mr Seeder's and Mr Hepner's questions, you have already reflected what I want to ask. I very much agree that the situation is changing very quickly, that decisions must be made very quickly, but certain plans and certain such plans could be known. In Viljandi, it is good that we have a crisis meeting initiated by Margus Sass and the Police and Border Guard Board, who are in charge of this crisis, as early as tomorrow morning. These things are different in counties. But the question is, have you considered [the older ones]? You said that there are relatively few older people coming, but in the case of older people, however, there is a pretty big issue with the burden of care and the issue of long-term care. They come from the horrors of war, they've been through a difficult journey, they've been thrown down, they're in a state of health, and everything can be [to the point that they might] need care services at some point. I'm talking about the general care center here. We know this about local taxes and access, that they are often too much for loved ones, not to mention those who have come out of the way of war. These are the responsibility of the local government. Yesterday, I read with interest that Britain is paying £350 to every person who offers housing. In Estonia, a certain number of people have already provided their own housing, not all of which have been used yet, but this is probably a great necessity. Do you have a conversation about the elderly at the table of the government? Because it's a very sharp subject! Schools and kindergartens, we hear that from the media and from everywhere, and this is extremely important. Although I also had a question here yesterday when the Chancellor of Justice said that parents who are equal to the Estonian people in Estonia are free to choose from the school. You say that they will be sent to a school in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U76	Yeah. I agree with you that we do not leave older people out of our attention. Just earlier, this was the focus of [different], we thought there would be more. The Ministry of Social Affairs had made plans for 20% of the war refugees to be elderly, but in reality it is a much smaller number. If 95% of adults are of working age, this is only 5%. Therefore, these plans need to be corrected, but that does not mean that we are somehow ignoring them. Just as you say, here come the long-term care issues. This concerns all areas. And yesterday, when we discussed it for a long time, it was also highlighted as a necessity, but, as I say, we still had a better understanding of this refugee profile yesterday, and we need to rethink these plans. So, yeah, we're not going to miss it in any way. But by the way, when people ask why there are no older people, a lot of people say I don't leave my home, this is my home, I've been born here, I've lived here, I'm dying here, and I'm not leaving home. Older people have had more of these reasons than young people, which is probably the reason, given the circumstances. Now for schools. Yeah, it's true that the parent can choose the school. But this practice, where in fact there is nothing more to choose than only Russian-speaking schools, is certainly not the right practice. And another thing, when we're talking about smaller children, is what the state can do. When we create new school places, we still create school places in Estonian. Just because if you live here, even if you live here for a short time, you still have to speak that language. This does not mean that these children will be Estonians. After all, they can maintain their culture and their language, but in the long term it is important that these people are integrated in Estonia. If they go back, I believe that we simply have Estonian friends in Ukraine who also speak Estonian outside Estonia, which is certainly not bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U78	Let us now move on to question seven. This is the question asked by the Anti Party, answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is supporting the Ukrainian Defence Forces. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U79	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Zelenskiy has said that the reserves that they have collected themselves and which come from other parts of the world will be reduced at a frightening rate because the Russian military colons are tens of kilometres long. Even if we see a scene where a tank is blown up, these columns are huge, these armored vehicles are thousands. This means that the equipment will be used exceptionally quickly. He says the week's supply will be used in a day in such a gigantic confrontation. We've given anti-tank missiles, that's great, the Javelins are the right weapons to give. And I have a question. Have you discussed with the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces what else we can transfer from our reserves, because the dynamics of war are such that everything is going to take place at an extraordinary rate? Is there anything else we can hand over from our warehouses? And here's another thing: how soon can we recover our own supplies?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U80	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U81	Thank you. It's interesting to see how your record has changed. When I visited the Riigikogu on 21 January with a political statement, I received a great deal of criticism from your group as to why we are giving military assistance to Ukraine, why we are giving all these protection measures and that we ourselves have little. But I think it was right then, and I see that you too have come to support it, that we must support Ukraine in this fight, because Ukraine is also fighting for us and actually fighting for Europe. We must do everything we can to prevent Putin from winning in Ukraine. What you're referring to, the great advantage of the Russian troops, is known. And indeed, the resistance of the Ukrainians has surprised both the Russians and certainly the whole world, and the only thing we can do is help them as much as possible. We have also provided defensive assistance on an ongoing basis, even now, and we have done so in considerable quantities. This assistance is provided by many countries, and the Ukrainians have been very grateful for the help it will help. Of course, we will also complement our stocks in the same way so that we ourselves do not have any gaps in this, but as far as we can, we will continue to help Ukraine. Now, with which we are specifically helping, I might not be bringing all this list here, but we will be helping with instruments that will enable Ukraine to defend itself and oppose the Russian troops.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U82	And now the point to be clarified. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U83	Thank you. Previously we spoke about Ukrainian men of military service who have arrived in Estonia or who have already worked here before. One number that went through was at least 450, but it's more than twice as many. I will give you an example, which is stated in the Estonian National Defence Act: the duration and conditions of compulsory employment. The duration of compulsory employment is up to 48 hours. National Defence Penalty Penalty Act: determination of forced charges, obligation to transport (public obligation), temporary taking over of the company. We have these necessary laws for a time of crisis. And that also shows the fact that not everyone has to be weapons carriers who are assigned to the state service. They can be drivers, they can even put their company at the disposal of the state and so on, and so on. Is it not time we recorded the profile of all the men who are armed and who are simply healthy men who can go to their homeland to help? They know the local conditions best. You can also send buses in front of them. We don't have a chance of coercion here, but we can help. Perhaps those who are actually a great force, perhaps a thousand men, whom we could also get in Ukraine to assist internal refugees, would be forced to assist the army. Can we do this and just focus on the men who the Ukrainian President has asked for help, in fact, obliged us to do so, because forced mobilisation has been declared? We cannot behave in such a way that during the War of Independence, men are taken to Finland for farm work. Then no one will win this fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U84	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U85	Thank you. I cannot quickly control here, but I assume that the National Defence Act still applies here to Estonian citizens. So all these references to forced labour, I presume, apply to Estonian citizens. I can check it out. But I can't imagine having such levers. That's what I know. The Moonika Helme here said, as if I didn't know [this number]. Yeah, I know this number, we know people, men who have revoked their work permit here and reported they're going back. But I want to say that we do not control the way out of Estonia as we control the people who come in. Therefore, we do not have a complete picture of how many of these people have gone to war if they do not let us know. As far as I know, the Ukrainian people are very out for their country. Rather, it is knowing that women and children will be brought here, that they will go back, that the same buses will go back to help their country. This defence is very high in Ukraine and has proved to be even higher than was initially shown in the studies. Just because if there is a real war, people go to protect their homes, they go back to defend their homes just so they can go back somewhere. So, yes, I believe that every country is working to implement its own people in defending its own country. We must deal with their implementation in defending our country. It is positive that the defence of the Estonian people has also risen in this real war situation, when this real war is so close to us. There are also more and more people who have wanted to join the Defence League. People want to learn and prepare for it if things go crazy. But once again, there is no such military threat directly beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U86	And now one more question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U87	Good manager! Prime Minister! The head of the PBA is currently working on an emergency plan. If there is an emergency plan, then there must be an emergency announced. And my question is, who has declared it? The Home Office? Does [this plan] also exist at the Ministry of Social Affairs, Signe Riisalol or the Minister of Education, Liina Kersnal, because it concerns both social benefits and teaching in schools? And is there a plan that if this refugee stream, the number of refugees [increasing], the government will declare a state of emergency? Because I recall that if an emergency plan is implemented, who has declared this emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U88	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U89	Thank you. The look in the book of the law makes it easier to find justice: an emergency need not be declared. The state of emergency must be declared. But we have an emergency and the Police and Border Guard have actually started implementing the plans that were previously for this emergency. So to the question of whether it is necessary to declare an emergency situation, in response: if the situation develops there, of course it is also a lever to declare the emergency situation if it is necessary to resolve this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U90	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U91	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Mikhail Lotman, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is NATO airspace and Article 5. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As you have certainly noticed, I have tried to formulate my question specifically. This is by no means a malicious question, but I want a concrete answer. Our biggest ally, the United States, has repeatedly confirmed that they protect every customs in NATO territory. Jake Sullivan, US National Security Advisor last week, said one bullet on NATO territory would be enough to activate Article 5. Almost at the same time, not some single moon, but a 15-meter drone, which had been released from the territory of Ukraine, probably invaded by Russia, passed through the airspace of four NATO states. Mostly Hungary, where it flew over 700 kilometers in 40 minutes, and then 117 kilometers in Croatian territory, where it fell next to the residential area. That drone had a bomb on it, too. I am asking you what is now going to be like with Article 5. As far as I have studied Article 5, that does not mean that this country, which is the victim of aggression, must raise it. This question can be raised by any NATO country. So I would like to ask how NATO must respond to this incident. And I am about to say that, in an additional question, I am going to ask how NATO airspace is protected at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U93	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U94	Thank you. Indeed, this incident last week was that the drone crashed in Zagreb. There was a university dormitory and then a residential area next to it. What do we know about this? We know it was a drone made by Russia, but in fact we do not have the information that Russia launched this drone. First. Secondly, as I understand it, these drones may actually go wrong, these things have happened before. Whether it is systematic, whether it also had the purpose of committing anything in NATO territory, [it is not known]. And the third point is that, in general, it is meant that Article 5 is triggered by a country that senses that its security is in jeopardy. Yes, you are right, it is not explicitly worded, but in practice this Article 5 has been used once when it was done by the United States, said Article 5, others come along. Article 5 means that an attack on one is an attack on all. Croatia has not said at the moment that this is an attack on them. And in fact, the circumstances that affect this drone are still under investigation. If the question is whether anyone else would be going to say right now, if Croatia does not feel directly attacked, then I do not believe that anyone is going to do so by declaring that Article 5, which means that there may be a counterattack or a defence. But you have to be sure where the drone came from. There is no such knowledge at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U95	And now the point to be clarified. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U96	Thank you. As a general rule, Article 5 does not state that this bullet must fly from Russia's territory, it is enough that it has violated NATO's airspace and it is an act of aggression against NATO, against NATO's state. But the problem is, we don't know where the drone came from, that drone Tu-141 Strizh. Croatia thinks it is Russia's conquered territory of Ukraine, but we do not know exactly. That's the problem with why we don't know. How is NATO airspace protected? The Croatian Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I recently met, said that they are going to study this matter in Madrid in Madrid, Madrid, as you know, it is a NATO centre. But this means that Hungary, Bulgaria, the sky of all the Balkan countries, including those belonging to NATO, has in no way been monitored in their sky. At the same time, one AWACS aircraft above it would be sufficient for us to know everything. And that's what I'm worried about, and I'm asking you not to talk about how the Estonian sky is protected. I know that. I am interested in NATO heaven as a whole, because we are members of this organisation, and indeed the attack on one NATO member is an attack on everyone, that is, against us as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U97	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U98	Thank you. We know this from where this drone came from, from where he came from, as you say, we know, but because there is war in this territory, there are both Russian troops and Ukrainian troops, there is no knowledge of who has released or launched this drone. I understand that this is an argument. When we're talking about protecting airspace, we know which planes and drones are flying here. And even though you say that I must not mention the airspace of Estonia, but still, we currently have the so-called air police and it is also in other countries. That means that when such a plane arrives, it will be detected immediately. And our proposal has been that we are actually moving from this so-called observation mission to a defence mission, that it is also possible to bring such aircraft down in our airspace, if necessary. But yes, we do not know, and Croatia is working with NATO on this. It would be very strange to rush ahead or past Croatia in any way, if Croatia is dealing with it and their perception of danger is perhaps the greatest in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U99	A procedural question, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U100	Thank you. Since I can no longer ask the Prime Minister, I ask you to pass it on to him. There are two options: either the Russians or the Ukrainians shot. In any case, Ukraine is not a member of NATO, in any case it is not a NATO member's aggression against NATO, and if this statement by Estonia, our Riigikogu, which we accepted, or the appeal to close the skies over Ukraine, is carried out, it will also protect our allies against Ukrainian missiles.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U101	Thank you, good fellow Mikhail Lotman! The Prime Minister heard you, so I don't have to deliver it separately. He's in this hall, and your statement was clear. Okay. Let's move on. We're in the middle of an additional question. If, Heiki Hepner, you're sure you want to present it, then you have the chance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U102	Thank you very much, good Chairman, for this kindness. I actually sensed a certain sarcasm of my good benchmate here when he bound Ukraine here because, in general, Ukraine hardly has a desire to carry anything at war with Croatia. But Putin's in Russia, because if Putin says he's not gonna do it, he's gonna do it. He promised that he would remove troops from the Ukrainian border, instead he would bring more, that he would not start a war, instead he would start a war. And now he has also said that chemical weapons have been found in Ukraine somewhere, that it is as if Ukraine wants to launch this dirty bomb. It can be assumed that Russia and Putin are planning something with a chemical weapon or, in some way, nuclear plants. In fact, Russia also attacked Ukrainian objects quite along the Polish border. My question would be to you, good Prime Minister, that what would be such a red line for the Estonian Government, where NATO should still intervene. Should anything happen to nuclear objects, should the chemical weapon be used against the Ukrainian people? Or should the Russians really get lost in a rocket attack one metre across the Polish border? So far, some efforts have been made to avoid the Polish border.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U103	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U104	Thank you. As far as I've been communicating with the experts, these drones get lost from time to time. It doesn't always mean aggression. In this sense, there should still be a feeling of danger. But if your question is essentially about this no-fly zone, it is a very difficult question. For example, I don't like it when people say we're not getting involved in any way. However, is it so certain that we will not intervene in any case? But the no-fly zone really has been made in history in three cases, and in these cases the decision of the UN Security Council has been a legal basis. The decision of the Security Council means that there is also Russia, Russia has the right to veto. In this respect, this legal basis does not seem to be blackmailing. Now, what's the difference? In order to enforce a no-fly zone, it is also necessary to crush the enemy's air protection systems, which, as a rule, may not be located in the territory of that country and leave it. Are we ready for this? Russia's military capabilities are much greater than in Libya, Iraq or Bosnia. This means that in this no-fly zone Ukrainian planes and drones would not be able to fly either. If you're watching these videos, it's actually drones that have broken these convoys. And the big problem is, of course, that in reality these basic damage that is being done is done with the driving beam. It's from tanks, it's from the sea, and it's not gonna be solved by this situation that concerns a no-fly zone. So here are some very complicated decisions. I also often think that right now we're in it. If we could see the future ahead and tell us what the right decision is. In fact, in the future, in two years' time, we know that this was the right decision, it went wrong at the time. For example, if we knew that this blow to Russia would end this war now, it would not extend anywhere, then that is one thing. But if we know that hitting Russia means that this war is spreading everywhere else, then every prime minister is primarily responsible for the preservation of his country, his people and culture, and there is an immediate dilemma for those countries that have the capacity to do so, i.e. aircraft that Estonia does not have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U105	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U106	Let's move on to the next question, that's number 9. Riho Breivel, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is border protection based on the experience of Ukraine. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I have been dealing with one issue for years, this is the border guard's development. When the border guards were joined by the police, the thing happened that this child was thrown out with the bath water, that is, the military preparation of the border guards. Today's experience in Ukraine shows that all border guards are integrated there and are fighting under the command of the Defence Forces. This means that our border guard also, according to this, I would like to say once again, must be in that direction that he has military capabilities, that is, training and chain of command. I've been discussing this with your respective ministries several times, and it's starting to look like it. But I would still like to discuss this with you, too, to ask you, because as your Prime Minister, you should certainly keep it in your sight too, so that our defence capabilities on the borders are secured. How have you looked at this, and are you familiar with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U108	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U109	Thank you. I can assure you that we are following the situation in Ukraine and what has worked there and what has not worked there extremely closely. We will draw our own conclusions from this, and we will take our lessons with us. Estonian Border Guard is part of the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board, police officers as well as border guards, have their duties, wartime tasks and peacetime tasks. I mean, it's not like it's gone missing, it's like these people are real. Now, can we actually strengthen our defence capabilities even more widely than only the Defence Forces? Yes, I think that, for example, the Defence League should certainly be strengthened, especially in view of the current situation, where people's desire for protection has actually grown a lot and people also want to join the Defence Union. And then when they join the Defence League, they'll have to have the equipment. There can be no situation that, should there really be a need, these people will be left without support. So, yes, we are closely following Ukraine and drawing our own conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U110	Now, here's a very specific question. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U111	It is clear that the Defence League has tasks and the Defence League deals with them. But my question is still specifically about the border guard section. This means that those who are on the border under the appropriate authority must receive military training and have a military chain of command in order to be able to go under the command of the Defence Forces in a military situation so that the same model can function. We can't get them out of there. That is what I want to emphasise, and I would like you and your authorities to shed light on this problem, and you will understand it that way, because border guards are quite a force on our borders. It's not two people, it's from the border guard to the border guard who used to be trained. They don't have it today, and today there's a certain idea that they'll be taken off the border and brought on by the Defence League. It's not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U112	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U113	Thank you. I'll take your thoughts with me. I agree that in a war situation, the functioning of the chain of command is crucial, who gives orders to whom, who follows these orders, so that there is no confusion. It is in the crisis that it is very important that the ball does not fall between the two chairs or create any confusion. I agree with that. The chain of command is in place. I, of course, do not know all the details and cannot present to you how all these directions are in the Defence Forces, but generally during the war there is a Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces who gives orders and orders to all those who have been used in this army. But what you're saying, if that's really the case, I'll have experts tell you what choices are there when people are really needed in one place. Well, the problem is that we just have a few people and they tend to be used in different places. I believe that everyone wants to use people where they are most effective and best able to do their job. If there is also a need for further training, given that this situation has changed capitalically from 24 February, I think that this additional training or training must certainly be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U114	And now one more question. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U115	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! On the Estonian-Latvian border, police checks are carried out at four border crossing points: Ikla and three border crossing points in Valga. At the beginning of the week, I asked the Minister of the Interior what they were joking about: the side road from Valga to Pärnu and Valga to Võru, coming from Latvia to Estonia, is unchecked. Yesterday morning a letter from the Valga Defence League called on members to guard the border along the side roads. This shows that your subordinates do not share anything about guarding the Estonian border because you destroyed the border guard years ago, which was also part of Estonia's national defence. How do you think you're gonna proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U116	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U117	Thank you. Estonia really decided to restore border controls precisely so that we could get an overview of the people who are coming and of the needs they have. Lithuania and Latvia have not done this, for example. And that's why I'm saying we have a better understanding of these people. It is true that we do not use it throughout the border [border control], but only at those points where many people come. It is not known to me that there would be other routes by mass, because these people are generally also interested in getting help and coming along the agreed channels. But also in the channels agreed upon, when people who do not have the right to come to Estonia arrive, they automatically decide that they must leave Estonia. In fact, this is done at these border crossings. If it should be clear that the use of these side roads, the use of small side roads, is massive, then we can continue to develop these points precisely so that we can still get this information, where people come from and what these concerns are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U118	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U119	Good fellows! Honourable members of the government! Now the announced topics have come to an end. I ask all of you who would like to ask to sign up. I have a request that if you start asking, you immediately tell who you are asking and then ask your question within two minutes. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U120	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! I'll try to fit two questions in two minutes. One is about a much discussed no-fly zone in this hall today. We really don't know what's right right now, it's gonna follow. But if we do not go to Ukraine to help in the desired way, we will sacrifice Ukraine from behind this we cannot in any way make up for it. We understand what this means when a country that fights for democracy in this way can be sacrificed. It's very risky for us, too. As your head of government and government, do you actually work to ensure that the messages that are inside the Riigikogu statement are included in the introduction of a no-fly zone, the granting of candidate status to Ukraine, the trade embargo, the tightening of sanctions, also receive international support? And the second part of the question concerns refugees. A lot of details have been discussed: where can donors bring goods or things, where people are accommodated, how do buses bring them from the border? However, [there should also be] fundamental or fundamental decisions on the basis of which all these minor decisions can be taken later. Do we accept all war refugees? When are we going to ask for the help of the United Nations and other Member States of the European Union? Are we going to disperse refugees across the country and when will they not be gathered together in Tallinn? Are we going to see them here temporarily, or are we actually going to integrate them right now, teach them the language, give them the chance to continue their lives here? And, in fact, the most important thing: what is expected of citizens? This is an extraordinary effort for our society. This will probably mean a deterioration in the availability of many services, or at least a change for our own people. This message, what is expected of citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U121	Good fellows! I must point out to all of us that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that there are two minutes to ask. You did a great job of that, Riina Sikkut. But the Home and Rules of Procedure Act also says that one question is being asked. So I'm asking you to take this into account. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U122	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu, for providing this support. There really were seven questions and these were not all small questions. Question one, no-fly zone. Aren't we going to help? We're going to help as much as we can. As I said, the main damage is now being done with the driving beam from the sea and the land. This no-fly zone won't solve that. The Ukrainians themselves also have conflicting opinions because the drones they use have actually worked very well against the convoys from above. If there's a no-fly zone, they can't be used. They affect the driving beam. So what I would say is that what we're doing at that table is everybody has a very big problem. Just like you say. It's not like you're going to bury Ukraine, and then we're going to stop at it, and it's like Putin is going to get away with it. Nobody's got that attitude. These are very difficult choices. In particular, those countries that are neighbours of Ukraine, if you have to choose that all this monstrosity that is happening will also come to your yard, it will be very difficult for these prime ministers to say that yes, I am taking this risk. But really, we don't know. Maybe years from now, we'll find out who Winston Churchill is and who's Neville Chamberlain. We still do not know this now, and that is what makes this situation very difficult. Now, as regards the status of the candidate country and the other issues that are being addressed there. Yes, I have also very much supported and debated this European perspective for Ukraine on this subject. I would say that the positive message is that we have still got the trajectory in place, referring specifically to the specific Treaties, which gives the Commission the responsibility to take concrete steps. But we need to understand that there are currently no people in the Ukrainian authorities who actually cooperate because they have a war, a large-scale war across the country. Now, there were a lot of questions about refugees. Not all of this can be answered, but on this European mechanism, we actually decided yesterday that we were going to take these steps to consult other countries first. Our [refugees] percentage of our population is already quite large and we simply have a border to meet. Just as you say, we must prepare our population. This is a very great pressure on our society and we cannot cope with it to the end. So there would also be a call for people who bring people on buses from there, so please let us focus on helping the people we already have here, who actually have more than 1% of our population. But yes, we already decided to launch this mechanism at European level yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U123	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In addition to the security situation, the economy is also in an extremely bad direction: massive price increases have started, and this is probably just the beginning. A very large price increase tsunami is still coming, and we need broad-based measures against it. Clearly, fine-tuning or targeted measures will no longer help here, as you tried to make up for the increase in electricity prices. Both entrepreneurs and the people of Estonia need help. One solution could be, for example, excise duties on fuel, the same as for electricity and the reduction of VAT on food products. There is a need for broad-based measures here. Has the government considered or is it planning to apply, for example, reductions in VAT on food, fuel, electricity as well as reductions in excise duties on fuel? Is that the plan? We urgently need broad-based measures. Are you prepared to act courageously and decisively and to lower the value added tax and fuel excise duties on important goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U125	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U126	Thank you. On 24 February, a war began in Europe and, as a result, Europe has also imposed large-scale sanctions. Last year Estonia's economic growth was 8.3%. This is extraordinary economic growth. So far, the economy has done very well. Yes, inflation has also been high. Now, what do we see? We see that there will be very difficult times and very difficult times, in fact, for a very large number of sectors. Some sectors are hit because they face sanctions in any way, such as no raw materials. Some sectors are hit because their trading partner is Russia or Ukraine. Some are indirectly hit because there are simply difficulties in this supply chain. Now, what aren't we sure about right now? We are at the beginning of this crisis; we do not yet have a recession. As I said, we are now in March, we have completed a financial year with an economic growth of 8.3%. I am not saying that there will be no recession or difficult times. On the contrary, I say they are still ahead. Now that we are rushing somewhere to help at the start of this crisis, we still need to understand very clearly who is the hardest. Basically, there are four options. The first choice is to do nothing at all. The second option is to try to help those companies or people who get the most hit. The third option is to try to help the most vulnerable people who are the hardest. And the fourth option is to provide general macro-economic support. When we talk about these first two options, the fact that nothing can be done is obviously not an option, it is clear to everyone. Now, to try to help those companies that get the most hit, it's not really realistic, because we can't say it. Let it be a road construction that doesn't have bitumen, let it just be a construction that doesn't get metal. There are a lot of these sectors. So we have these two solutions: helping the most vulnerable, that is one, and the other is macro-economic support. However, I will say it again: difficult times are still ahead and we need to look at this picture more widely, because we need money to solve all these concerns. This, unfortunately, is also coming from taxes. So helping those who get the most hit would be my preference.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U127	I will conclude on this issue. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U128	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I am going to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, simply because, after a long sitting, almost two hours, he would also, as they say, get his hand white and his mouth open. And I'll start with praise. I promise I will not put two questions in one question, and I will start with praise. In one briefing, I asked a question concerning public transport centres and free transport and the necessary cuts there, and the Minister very nicely said that he was looking at what he could do. And specifically, the Viljandi Public Transport Centre was informed very quickly that additional resources had been found and that it would continue as it is, that no one would miss a ride or that there would be no need to shorten the line kilometres. So thank you so much for that! [I ask you] because you are a minister of the Cabinet, and indeed in my previous question to Kaja Kallas he did not have the opportunity to answer everything that I had to ask, that is usually the case, that the questioner arrives more than the respondent. But I'm sure you've heard it in office sessions when it's been discussed. The same example concerning Britain, who has declared that £350 for those who provide housing for war refugees. Has there been anything like this on the table of our government or in the discussion? Because we actually know that income support does not pay off the rent charged by landlords. And in view of the likely increase in the current need for housing, the rise in rents, there is no need to be a clairvoyant to think that they are going to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U129	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U130	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your question. It's really good if you come in here for two hours, and then someone asks you something, you don't just have to sit here. Although all that is said here is very educational and it is always a pleasure to participate, but it is always a good thing that this participation can be active. And what better than a minister to have in dialogue with members of the Riigikogu is a celebration of democracy. Now, as far as your question is concerned, yes, this is not exactly my area. But surely at one point we also need to start discussing what happens when war refugees move out of those dwellings that are now temporarily granted to them by the country, it is a hotel or something else. There are refugees, war refugees, an apology who have received housing from ordinary people. Just yesterday, I heard a case where, at the very beginning, they tried to earn from this war refugee, fortunately, was intervened, and someone else gave their housing free of charge to the war refugee. So there are certainly those who provide housing free of charge in the current situation. Yeah, well, at one point it's gonna change because people come out of hotels, maybe the resource that's capable of giving housing free of charge ends, and war refugees are gonna need to pay for their housing. It has not yet been discussed in this form, but this debate in the government will undoubtedly come about how to proceed if the war refugee stays longer in Estonia and needs housing for a longer period, how we behave, what our benefits are. And it's definitely not gonna be easy. But finally, thank you again for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U131	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the honourable Kaja Kallas. Prime Minister! One goal Putin has already achieved in Ukraine. Yesterday, before the Canadian Parliament, President Zelenskiy said that indeed, Ukraine is not yet ready to enter NATO and they are not now raising this issue. At the same time, I listened to the views of two military experts on the progress of the Ukrainian war. They said that two things, the misery and bad fighting of Russian command, and, secondly, the readiness and action of the Ukrainian army, surprised them very much. And one expert said directly that we have always talked about Ukraine first having to learn there before it starts running for NATO membership, but events show that we have a lot to learn from Ukraine precisely how to fight our potential opponent. And my question is whether we will proceed with the call made by the Riigikogu to the parliaments of other countries, where, by the way, it was to give Ukraine a roadmap to NATO. How do you think we could learn from Ukraine as a NATO member?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U133	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U134	We are, of course, following these Ukrainian lessons very closely, because, firstly, geography is similar, secondly, there is an opponent whose weaknesses are revealed there, and accordingly, we still need to prepare. And that is what our experts do very clearly. Now, coming to this performance, I haven't noticed, but that's what you're saying when you say Zelenskiy said they're not ready to go to NATO. What we need to understand is that whatever agreements are concluded in Ukraine at the moment, they have not been made voluntarily in any way. Ukraine essentially has a weapon above its brains, after all, there is already a large-scale war going on, and every head of state wants to do everything to save the lives of its people. And at one point, he may want to make promises that are not made voluntarily, but that are actually his people being killed. It has to be understood. But we have to take into account that if Putin goes on, if Ukraine makes any agreements, then will it still have been voluntary. Now, it has to be said that Ukraine still makes its own decisions. If they say they don't want NATO now, we can't force you to come to NATO if they don't make that statement or want to join. It's their choice, but they're obviously not free to make their choices right now just because there's a large-scale war going on in their territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U135	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U136	Good manager! Prime Minister! The question is very simple and short. You will meet with the leaders of all political parties in the Riigikogu on the evening and discuss the Estonian border or red line, how many war refugees can actually fit into Estonia. And my question is to you: with what message do you go to your colleagues this evening, how many war refugees will fit into Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U137	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U138	Thank you. It's the border they keep asking us how much we can do. We've made plans based on different numbers. But when I say that, I can't imagine that if one person comes more than that limit or agreement, how this fugitive will be sent back from the border. But for that, yesterday we decided that we would take steps at European level precisely to enter into consultations so that others would take the burden from us to share, because, proportionally, these refugees are simply going beyond what we can finally do, and we are not going to be able to do so. So here we really ask others to share it. However, if you look at those countries that have taken a great deal of refugees in percentage terms today, whether Poland or Hungary or Romania or also Estonia, many of these countries have been opposed to the mechanisms for the distribution of such refugees. I guess this is where we have to negotiate with other countries to share this burden, because it is clear that this war is not going to end tomorrow, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U139	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions. I thank all the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U140	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 8th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. The members of the Riigikogu are now able to deliver drafts or enquiries. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, with the Social Democratic Party Group, we are giving the Riigikogu's draft decision to the proceedings, the task of giving the Government of the Republic the necessary additional resources as a matter of urgency to teach the children of Ukrainian refugees who have arrived here the Estonian language so that they can walk in circles of interest and that our faculty can also receive the salary increase because their burden is rising significantly. As of today, more than 8 000 children from families of refugees from Ukraine have arrived here, and this figure is increasing. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is undoubtedly a huge challenge for our entire country, for society. As I said, there are three areas where money is urgently needed, so that these much-stricken Ukrainian children can quickly learn the Estonian language and integrate in all possible ways into our small but good society. We are asking for this bill to be supported. Really, it's urgent for this money allocation. I hope that this draft will quickly find a procedure in the Riigikogu committee and in front of the plenary assembly, and that the government will draw its own conclusions. The draft has also been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U142	No more wishes. We will decide on further processing of this draft in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U143	75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U144	Let's go to the agenda today. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 424. I'm opening negotiations. No requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Since we just had a presence check, I'm asking if we can do it without a call. Thank you! No objections. I am voting on the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 424. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U145	With the result of 75 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U146	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related to it. I'm opening negotiations. Can't see the word, I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws in draft 505. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U147	The bill is supported by 60 members of the Riigikogu, 14 against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U148	Our third item is the draft law on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 512. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Socialists, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U149	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Just as at second reading, the Social Democrats must clearly state that it is not acceptable to exclude certain families from protection. With the Family Benefits Act, we have such a story that there really are a lot of good things. There are families who are therefore receiving parental benefit, to which they were not entitled before, and there are changes relating to the payment of child support. No doubt, they can only be supported. We will also vote in favour of this bill at third reading. But the way the procedure has taken place is not really acceptable. On the one hand, the EKRE and the Isamaa Group are saying that there is a need to avoid the disguised enforcement of the Cohabitation Act by amending other laws and to value the traditional registered marriage between a man and a woman. And then there is Minister Signe Riisalo, who says that do not worry about this law, that there is no mention of a registered partner, but in applying the law, the authorities must follow the judgments of the courts and the practice of the Supreme Court. Maybe then we're actually in a crazy situation. There are two political parties who do not want to implement the Cohabitation Act, but the Minister says it will be implemented anyway. In fact, it would be fair to put it in the law. Indeed, the regulation on parental benefit and maintenance assistance applies to all Estonian families, including those with registered partners. If we look at the procedure for this particular draft, aside from the issue, the attitude that, if a few hundred amendments are tabled, we will immediately withdraw, we will not resist, we will give in. We give in to matters of principle and give in at the expense of someone else's rights. It is a kind of withdrawal and the unwillingness to have a debate on a matter of principle at all. If we actually see that we can process these amendments, then that is what all of us are working on. We're gonna be here all night, and we're gonna get this thing done. We receive a law that is in line with the Supreme Court's decisions, which protects the rights of all families and which can be clearly implemented by both the Social Insurance Board and local authorities. But right now we have this crazy story because we cannot keep a clear line on fundamental issues. Criticism is about coalition. It cannot be accepted that the Minister has said that the mention of registered partnerships had to be abandoned, because it did not find sufficient support in Parliament. In what sense did Parliament not find sufficient support? I understand that coalition parties support and the Social Democratic Party also supports. This is absolutely sufficient support to implement such an amendment. It is a question of decisions taken under the procedure. A similar retreat to a few hundred amendments has taken place in the case of the Media Services Act, as well as in the case of the draft law on money laundering and the prevention of terrorism. As the Prime Minister explained very well in Question Time the situation in Ukraine and when to stand up for himself and when to withdraw, it is the same here. All right, then we give in to the Media Services Act, we withdraw from the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, now we take a step back on the Family Benefits Act. But then there will be the next law, there will be these few hundred amendments again, and once again the EKRE will have a suitable amendment to the draft proposed by the government. This practice, this withdrawal practice and this step backwards on fundamental issues cannot continue. We in this Chamber can say that no, let the law be consistent with what the Supreme Court rulings tell us. Let it be clear in the house and, in fact, the interests of all families are protected. So I very much hope that any situation where, on fundamental issues, there is simply a step away from a few hundred amendments and there are no other ways in which this Government's desire to actually enter into force will actually happen again in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U150	Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U151	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, During the procedure for this draft, I am pleased to say that common sense has not abandoned this house. This bill came from the government on this Parliament's agenda before the last crisis. I asked the correct number of members of the coalition party whether, in the context of these crises, I would remind you that this was before the last, or the current, war-related crisis, you have an interest in bringing people to the streets and pushing this cohabitation law through various draft laws. Then they looked at me with big eyes. This, of course, meant that no one in the coalition had discussed it in this form, and it came as a surprise to a number of people. That is why I am saying that I am pleased that common sense has not left us behind and that the coalition party's ambassadors have come to realize that there has really been no question of a political mandate for this and that it is unreasonable to process it in its current form. No one, no family will be shut down with this bill. After all, with this procedure, we learned the old truth that we are not wearing a saddle. When we deal with the Family Benefits Act, all families and people are equally affected by family benefits. It regulates that parental benefits are replaced by maternity and paternity benefits. In the case of bankrupt parents, the state will help in the same way as in other cases if the father goes missing or is not prepared to support his children. This bill regulates these issues. The criminal will of the government to partially enforce the laws implementing the Cohabitation Act with this bill was not reasonable. I am pleased that, under the leadership of the Commission's leader, the amendments made by the Fatherland were largely accepted. And we in the Commission found such a wording that this draft could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U152	More requests for speech... However, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The amendments to the Family Benefits Act will improve the situation of all children, including, for example, families raising children alone, families of stillborn children, as well as all mothers and fathers who will in the future receive parental benefit and stay home with the child. To say that the compromise that was made in the Riigikogu is wrong, I do not agree with that. I do not agree with this because, if we had not made this compromise, no changes could have entered into force from 1 April, which will make parental benefits more flexible and easier for families. These changes will help families to better reconcile work and family life, as parents can distribute parental benefit for longer periods and stay home together for 60 days. It's all important. I would argue that if we did not adopt this draft today and if this compromise had not been made in the Committee on Social Affairs and we had started to debate these hundreds of amendments, all of this would not happen and families would suffer as a result. The fact that someone stays under the eavesdrop, in the rain, is also half the truth. Yes, for them, it is more difficult, bureaucratic when it comes to parental benefits, but they are not missing out, they are not being spared. And now if you choose whether we are going to make a decision today that will help all families, or we say that we are not going to take this step backwards in the interests of the families, I think we made the right decision. I call on everyone to support this bill because it also supports families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U154	Well, there really is no more call. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is also here for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the draft law amending other laws 512. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U155	The bill is supported by 77 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposed or impartial members. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U156	Our fourth item today is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, particularly in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration to enhance cross-border cooperation with the Treaty. Please, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This law, of course, amends the regulation on cross-border cooperation in the so-called Prüm Treaty Act, namely cooperation to combat terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration. The amendments are purely technical in nature and concern the designation and modification of national contacts and coordination points and of competent authorities and officials. At present, all of them are specifically mentioned at the level of the law, and in future the Government of the Republic will be empowered to make changes to its order. The reason is logical: the names of the contact points' authorities change over time and flexibility is necessary. Between two readings, the topic was briefly on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 March and 14 March. There were no amendments between the two readings. In the meantime, a technical amendment to the norm was born in the Commission, presented by Commission advisor Carina Rikart and the Ministry's Legal Adviser Ragnar Kass. This technical amendment to the norm does not only repeal § 2 (2) but amends paragraph 2 as a whole. This is not only about changing the contact and coordination points and their competent authorities and officials, but also empowers the Government of the Republic to do all of this. This amendment has been discussed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is accepted by all parties. Procedural decisions. Propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda and a final vote today, 16 March, by consensus: Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Half-Amets, Tiidus and Toomast. Amendment, this technical norm, the lead committee: to take full account, there was a consensus here too: Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Tiidus and Toomast. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U158	Peter Ernits would like to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U159	Yes, good manager! I wanted to ask why we need to approve this Prüm Treaty when Louis II became the Kingdom of Italy and Lothar II became Friesland and Charles became Provence and Burgundy. And the Prüm Treaty was already in 855.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U160	Very esteemed Peter Ernits! This issue was not discussed in the Commission. And I also admire your knowledge of history.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U161	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. Then there is the case that we also need to revise the amendments. There's just one of them. It has already been presented by the rapporteur, by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken full account of it. No one calls for a vote. We have therefore examined the amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you a draft law amending the Act on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, particularly in the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration to enhance cross-border cooperation with the Treaty. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U162	The bill is supported by 77 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposed or impartial members. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U163	Let us move on to our fifth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Vice-President of the Monetary Commission Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U164	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 15 February, 7 and 14 March, the Finance Committee discussed draft law amending the Tax Administration Act (the provision of construction data) 506. The aim of the Act is to reduce the risks in the construction sector, with problems that need to be addressed in the construction sector from the perspective of companies, construction workers and the state. The draft provides for the possibility of increased transparency. The draft provides for the mandatory definition of the work chain and the time spent on the construction site in the construction sector. The main debtor shall be the main contractor, who, in addition to the obligation to identify the subcontractor, shall also be obliged to certify the work covered by the reporting obligation on the basis of pre-completed data in the [MTA] online environment and to provide the information of the contracting authority for the works. The opinion on the draft was sought from the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. On the construction side, the draft was also proposed to specify the volume of construction that should be included in the staff accounts electronically. The Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs did not support this amendment, while the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry supported this approach. A similar amendment was proposed by the Group of the Isamaa Party that the construction work of buildings required that if the construction area is more than 60 square metres and the estimated cost without VAT is more than 40,000, these sites should also be accounted for. This was also the subject of a heated debate between the members of the Commission. This proposal was not supported by the coalition's votes. The second amendment has been made in connection with the fact that the Pro Patria Party has tabled one draft so that donations to Ukraine will be exempt from income tax. In order to speed up this option, the government made its proposal. No consensus was currently found on this amendment and a proposal for a correction was introduced with the coalition's votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U165	You have questions too. Starts Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U166	The question is about this amendment. Why is there such an inclusive list? I have nothing against any of the organisations on this list, but all legal entities should have an exemption if they want to support Ukraine, whether they give money for the acquisition of weapons and so on. By this logic, why did the Commission consider that, for example, if Estonian companies sent money to the account of the Central Bank of Ukraine for the purchase of weapons, it would be taxable? What's with the moral perversion? Aivar, please explain the Commission's reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U167	Thank you. I have to admit, there were heated debates on this subject. In the end, when a ministry representative was asked why such an NGO and not all non-NGOs were not able to answer this question, apart from the fact that the burden on the tax administration suddenly became too high. We also did not receive a reply, [why] that, although on 7 March the Ministry of Finance published a press release that a larger tax exemption was planned for companies supporting Ukrainians and added to it so that donations could be made to the account of the Central Bank of Ukraine, many of the entrepreneurs were paying money to the bank account, these transfers are not covered by the exemption from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U168	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Of course, I don't understand that from the point of view of the government. I also do not understand why you did not reach a different conclusion in the Commission. But you can hardly answer that, too, as you described that there was a debate and that the decision of the coalition was over. But I have a question. As regards the proposal of the Fatherland, it was said that it was too technocratic and that it required too much action and perhaps the creation of some bases. Section 2 of the Income Tax Act states "from donations and gifts made for the purpose of providing and organizing humanitarian aid." But the right number of non-profit organizations on this list of seven pieces are involved in helping the refugees of war in Estonia. But this, in my opinion, under the terms of this law, would not be tax-free. How, then, will the state monitor which amounts are exempt and which are not from the donations made by these legal entities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U170	Thank you. You are right, Priit, in this sense, that this amendment, which came from the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, and which was formalised as a Commission amendment, is clearly written that the amendment will be introduced only for Ukraine, and I will emphasise the word 'Ukraine' to donations and gifts. The draft of the Fatherland Party, which is to be discussed at the next point, clearly states that there is no such option for all the costs incurred by the arrival of refugees. When I read in the press yesterday that, for example, one company is NGO Estonian Refugee Council, I realized that most of its expenses are only related to what is being brought here from the border and its activities. This certainly raises a very difficult question as to which donations are exempt from income tax and which are not. Because with the amendment of this bill, only those who transfer money directly to Ukraine will be able to provide [revenue-free aid].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U171	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U172	Good manager! Dear waitress, It was only last week that we discussed the quality of legislation here, and Priit Pikamäe's assessment was devastating to what we are doing here. And right now, here's the draft of this shed and, in the case of construction companies, it's welded to § 2. Is it good lawmaking practice to weld any bill at some point on a so-called topical button?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U173	Thank you, Peter! This is certainly not good practice, but we should also look at the other side today. There is currently a war in Ukraine and the Estonian society has very much supported Ukraine. And at the moment, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this decision has been made on an accelerated basis to give the possibility that all subsidies should be exempt from income tax. If you ask me, I will say that simply this proposal for a correction is certainly not what our people and entrepreneurs, who are already 24. [February] made donations in the evening, waiting. That's pretty clear. The Commission received a large number of letters, virtually none of which were taken into account. On this point, this amendment came to the table as such and, by a majority of [the Commission], with [the result] 6 : 3, it is now in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U174	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm looking at this actually closed list, seven names are listed here. If the first six were to be said to have such a nationwide grip or are not connected to a very specific place, then the seventh [place cannot be said]. This is the Old Town of Rotary Club Tallinn. Not that I have anything against the Rotary Clubs. On the contrary. There is a whole series of them in Tallinn, and there is a number of them all over Estonia. Why has one particular one come from, and why has the rest been excluded? And who proposed it anyway? Who's behind this club in particular? Was that what we talked about at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U176	Thank you. All these names and suggestions have come from the Ministry of Finance. I asked Lemmi Oro, representative of the Ministry of Finance, last time in the Finance Committee, why the Rotary Club Tallinn Old Town was put here at the last minute. We were promised a reply in writing. I must admit that I have not seen this written reply to this day, [don't know] whether it will come or not. It raises questions. This morning, for example, we heard that NGO Estonian Refugee Council actually organises the introduction of refugees from the border with dozens of buses to Estonia every day for the second week. On the one hand, the State does not have any agreement with them. And [on the other hand,] if today it was possible to ask the Minister whether anyone would, after all, monitor the use of the money given to these non-profits, the initial answer of the minister was that, since there are no agreements between the state and non-profits, the government does not exercise any control over the allocation of funds or the refund of income tax. This can be done by the Tax Administration. But it is certainly very difficult, because the donation money is also used to transport these people within the Estonian state, to live and also to pay for the helpers. So I'm sure it's very complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U177	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, this amendment by the Committee on Monetary Affairs now takes the matter a little further than the original draft, but it is due to the exceptional situation and the urgent need to be resolved. But I would like to come to this original draft with my question, and specifically to the subject raised in your first amendment. There was a pretty unusual situation. I do not recall from my practice here that this would have been a rather rare way of making a union of construction companies, on the one hand, and trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce, on the other, completely different views on the volume of the construction work that concerns the scope of control. Would you explain how opinions on this matter can be completely contradictory within the area? Explain it to our hall as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U179	Thank you, Aivar, for this question. It's very simple. A public procurement law was passed in this very hall during the previous term. The Public Procurement Act imposed obligations on the contracting authority and in most cases it is the State that should fulfil the obligations of the contracting authority. The law stated that all subcontractors and all these employees and their pay systems must be coordinated and approved by the contracting authority. Now it's just that often large companies have budget managers and lawyers, and subcontractors are the ones who do the job. And it's really good for prime contractors to have a system like this because they can wipe their hands clean. I, who, on the one hand, have been the owner of a construction company and in this area all the time, since the termination of the TPI, can say that it is very clear that the subcontracting companies, which are by law, will not actually have any major employee registration on the site. In most cases, subcontracting companies have fewer than 20 employees, so that one item is shown, they do not have to register. But the other half is they say if it's less than two months, you don't have to register. It's just this side of comfort. On the one hand, if the Riigikogu were to support this proposed amendment, it would actually mean that black money moves at the end of subcontractors or in private constructions. And this EUR 40000 is a relatively large number compared to, for example, Finland, Latvia or Lithuania, where registration has to be on a much smaller number. The idea of the draft is that tax evasion must be eliminated, but it does not, in fact, fulfil this request. On the contrary, the sector in which black money moves the most is absolutely not affected by this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U180	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U181	Andres, they asked me. Aivar asked me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U182	Mr. Chef, it's Metsoya's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U183	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm going back to this income tax issue with my question. With regard to energy benefits, the route was chosen through the local government, to create a form of procedure so that everything would be clear and transparent. Now that we are talking about donations, support for Ukraine, we see that for some reason this system has become a non-profit association after all, right, not the formation of a state donation account that the tax administration can control and, at the same time, in a very clear and simplified way, manage the whole process. You said there was a very passionate debate. But what were the arguments that this list came up with seven points rather than creating a special account at national level? What were the arguments for this to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U185	Let us be honest, in this debate and in the debate there were no valid arguments, there was only one sentence to the fact that it was easier to control. But as we can see, when we read the explanatory memorandum to this bill, the opposite happens, the current situation creates an even more complex situation in which there is an argument between the tax administration, these NGOs and donors. Let's say, I, as a donor, tell the NGO that I would like this money to go to Ukraine, and I want to get the tax back, but this NGO can use this money exactly as it wishes, because there is no way to prohibit it. So right now, I have a feeling they wanted better, but it turned out the way they used to. But with the majority of the committee's votes, this is a proposal for improvement in this House, and in the Riigikogu Chamber there is an opportunity either to support it or not to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U186	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I will read about the same list now in the explanatory memorandum, and it has been said here that the delimitation of associations will also enable the Tax and Customs Board to control the targeted use of donations without significantly increasing the administrative burden. I understand we have a long list of companies with income tax benefits. In the light of what's in here, I can't tell you why this Rotary Club is here now, it's something completely incomprehensible, the tax office doesn't control the other NPOs on the list that can be delivered with a tax credit? Didn't you have any discussion about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U188	Thank you, Heiki! It's not about these NGOs. The question is, who makes the donation? At present, there is a limit to the amount of donations that a company can make that are exempt from income tax. The contributions made through these NGOs should in theory be exempt from all income tax. But since there is a very clear clause in the explanatory memorandum that these donations are only for Ukraine, everything that the NGO uses to transport people here from the border or everything that should be done in Estonia with refugees does not go under the donations. Now it's just that the question arises that if I, as an entrepreneur, have made a donation and now I want a tax credit from the tax administration, how does the tax office guarantee that the money went there? Or how do I, as an entrepreneur, guarantee it? Such a moment, frankly, was not discussed very clearly in the Commission, because the explanatory memorandum kept running behind. This bill also turned out to be one more series of improvements on the last minute of Monday. Let's be honest, maybe a little hasty has done it, and not all things have been properly thought out. But as you know, when the coalition has decided, that kind of thing with coalition votes is still going through.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U189	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U190	Good manager! Dear waitress, I'll come back to the same thing. At present, the government welded its § 2 to it. But only recently it was the so-called law on clearing, also for you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where two of these sanctions were welded up. Why weren't they dealt with together and something else? All of this has taken place in a very short time frame, and all these laws concern this crazy war that's going on. Why do you have one button on one side, the other button on the other? Surely there is another third draft you will have where you will be welded to a button connected to the same Ukrainian war. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U191	Thank you, Peter! I think that, in today's situation, it is nothing that is very deplorable if, because of the war in Ukraine which began on 24 February, we are now trying to help and support all those people, companies and institutions that are trying to give their aid to Ukraine, and to speed up [the process of granting aid]. The fact that the Fatherland Party issued a similar bill certainly also gave its acceleration effect. Unfortunately, just this weekend, when it was formalized at the Ministry of Finance, it didn't get any deeper and perhaps it didn't go through everything. Or it was the other way around. They thought it over like they put it here. After all, we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not make any improvements to this proposal from the Ministry. When it was discussed the first time a week ago, it was just said that one NGO would come up again, and on Monday it was said what NGO it was. And if the question is what has sounded like from the floor, why this NGO and why not many others who have made a similar request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the answer is, as I mentioned earlier, that the Ministry of Finance official promised to reply in writing on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U192	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U193	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We had a long discussion in Tallinn City Council last Thursday. We also saw some companies, some private limited companies, and we had very serious doubts. But the deputy mayor said it doesn't matter at all who owns it and what name it is and what it's called. But my question is this: did you also have a debate in the committee on why a single club is selected from the whole Rotary movement? Did there be any name-call links between the Minister of Finance or the Ministry's top officials and this club? Or do you also deal with this subject in the same way as in Tallinn, that the private limited company and the private company, we treat everyone equally, we do not look into anyone's background?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U194	Thank you. We asked a similar question and received the answer that the Rotary Clubs have agreed that the Rotary Club Tallinn Old Town is their umbrella organisation. And that's all we got to answer that question. As I mentioned earlier, the result of the vote was 6: 3. Six [members of the Commission] supported this amendment, but the representatives of the EKRE and the Isamaa Group did not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U195	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Same question. Was it in the Commission to know why there were no sevens at the time, why this six plus one, why this one Rotary club was later remembered by the Ministry of Finance? And you said the Ministry of Finance was allowed to send you a letter. Now that we're discussing this, this letter hasn't come yet, as to why it was added to the seventh. That's the first question. And the second question is about what a good colleague, Heiki Hepner, read out. If the reason for this is that the associations are defined in order to allow the Tax and Customs Board to verify the specification of the donations made without a significant increase in the administrative burden, then I have a question. Really, the Tax and Customs Board is good for checking non-profits that are six plus one. However, if it turns out that legal persons who have proposed in good faith have not complied with [the conditions], will this tax credit remain valid or will it not? If [the donation] is made for this purpose, it appears that the NGO has not used it for its intended purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U197	Thank you for a very good question. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Good Jürgen, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chef is now answering Mr. Onion's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U199	Unfortunately, the Commission had the same discussion as it is now in the Chamber. Jürgen keeps saying what he thinks, and it's like he thinks it's the right thing to do. These same discussions were up, but we did not get any answers. And the saddest thing is, this explanatory statement ran off at one point. When we were at that table, we were talking about subsidies. But all the material is only physically in hand when the Commission's protocol comes and you can monitor it there. We did not receive an answer as to why these were chosen. Some of this is very clear, the Red Cross has always been on the side of grants, right, and the Salvation League has some logic here. But what we two opposition parties proposed was that there could be for anyone who wanted and who could also get directly. In my opinion, if the money goes directly, as was the case in the press release of the Ministry of Finance, to the account of the Central Bank of Ukraine, the number of which had been given, in support of refugees and refugees[, it could also be exempt from income tax]. At this point in time, it is sad that donations made there have been donated EUR 100000 to companies, and no more will be eligible for income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U200	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U201	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, we also discussed here in our group why such a very small proportion of these NGOs have gained such an advantage over others. We actually know that if this thing goes on, a lot of non-profits will be helping these war refugees, and they will be in a completely unequal position in this respect. For example, in Haapsalu, hotels are already booked, but in a month, no one knows. The only available accommodation is in one of the NGO's premises, which deals with the rehabilitation of prisoners. And if they now want to help these Ukrainian war refugees in addition, this exemption will not apply to their means. How do you see whether there is any way that the funds of these encouraged NGOs could be distributed across Estonia for money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U202	Thank you. The most difficult thing in my opinion is that these companies and individuals who make donations are bona fide donors. What the NGOs are doing next is purely the decision of the owners of these NGOs. It cannot be influenced by those who have donated. That is why the idea was that it would be much more reasonable if there was a bank account in the country that could make donations and it was said that this money would go to Ukraine or to the costs of Ukrainian refugees. Then this problem would have been solved. According to my understanding, this amendment will create more problems and not be solved. And it is clear that most of those who have made two weeks of donations to date are already in millions of euros are not eligible for income tax exemption. We also had a debate on medicines on the same subject. Then it was said, like, that we now have that no one who transports, and no one leads anywhere, there's no control. We have very specific requirements. The pharmaceutical companies wanted it to be resolved in some way, too, that medicines are a very important part of humanitarian aid. However, these solutions were not found during this debate. These solutions are in the debate on the next draft that will come to this point after that. The members of the Riigikogu now have a decision as to whether the draft, as Peeter says, is welded to some part of the process in order to speed up the process, so that those who donate know who and how are exempt from income tax or to support the faster procedure of the next draft. There is a solution: anyone wishing to make donations could do so on a tax-free basis. Because the process didn't end yesterday and it didn't end today. We do not know how long this war will last and how long it will be to support nearly 20,000 people who are currently in Estonia. This amendment, which is currently being discussed, does not support any expenditure made outside Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U203	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U204	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, that puts many charities or just big organisations in an unequal position. Maybe today the message goes out that the state trusts only this list, but for example, even the Defence League or some major non-profit organisation that has already supported Ukraine for all seven years, they will not qualify for it. If I've been asked a lot about who and where to make [the bestowals], I've told you that the Defence League is a certain place. Now I have to shake the ashes on my head. But what about the state's message that donations will be exempt from income tax, which will now be reduced to how much does it hinder businesses from reacting quickly? I've also said the smart one won't rush, let's see. It is not the case here that all donations will be exempt from income tax, and I must say that I was right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U205	Thank you. I can only answer you this, Tarmo: I hope that the Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs will support the next draft, because then there will be no questions and problems that have now emerged in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U206	We've run out of questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U208	Let's open the negotiations. Martin Helme, please! [[Noise in the hall.]] Gentlemen Ligi and Chef, there's a negotiation now! It is possible to come and speak during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U209	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. [[Something's been said about the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U210	Here's the chair, here, Mr. Onion, can't...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U211	Friends, negotiations are taking place from here. The original aim of the draft was to regulate the construction market and reduce the possibilities for tax fraud. This is undoubtedly a very beautiful and noble objective, and the subject is undoubtedly real, real, it is not a pseudo-problem. Our group, of course, has some scepticism about the way in which we are dealing. This threshold, where the amount, square meters and all these other restrictions are being introduced, is unreasonably low, the construction of a substantially smaller private house anyway, but even some of the larger types of renovation of a private house are already going under control, but it simply does not make sense. I can see very clearly how there will be a situation here where the IRS will basically deal with pudish pillows, but big objects where the sums actually move and after which you will have a whole lineup of high-paid lawyers at the door, will remain secondary. These boundaries were not touched in the amendments either. And the boundaries that are currently embedded in this bill in this form are not reasonable. The bigger problem is the saddle on the back of the pig, which has just been discussed at length here, i.e. the tax amendment introduced during the procedure, which gives tax advantages to the seven organisations that have been completely charged when they make donations and gifts to Ukraine. First of all, it doesn't make any sense why these seven. But when I look at these seven names, I see that there are some left-wing radical non-profits working on human misery and human trafficking, there's one deep-state shelf company here, there's one freemasons front company. Well, the whole list here is incomprehensible to me. But speaking of purely legal principles, here, just as it came out of the current issues, it is incomprehensible why they are treated in a special way, while we have dozens if not hundreds of natural and legal persons who have made these gifts and donations in the same way. Then some pay the tax and others don't pay the tax. It's not really acceptable. In fact, there was no logic in putting this list together, there was no will to take that list apart like a little more thoroughly and to make some sort of solution that would be understandable or not create injustice. Because of this, our party group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, proposes that the reading of the draft be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U212	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U213	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, On this important draft, I am talking only about the saddle, i.e. the amendment proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to amend § 2 of the Income Tax Act. After all, the goal is noble and the urgency of dealing with it, too. But as life shows, when you start putting on a pig's saddle, it's pretty hard to fit in, a lot of things go unnoticed, overlooked. What bothers me, as it were, is, of course, the same list and the fact that it was not possible to understand exactly where it came from and on which it was based. Now, I have tried a little bit, indeed, to say that in the last few minutes, more clarity, but I still do not fully understand what the point and purpose of the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Monetary Affairs is when relatively more targeted humanitarian aid is preferred to, for example, the state of integrity and sovereignty. On this point, I also asked myself that many of these [organisations] deal with war refugees very much. I'm sure it's important too, but it's all going to happen later and here. Many NGOs are working on both sides, but we support this tax credit, above all, and more those who are doing what is happening here. Some companies have been directly supported either by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine or directly interacted with, or led to, Ukrainians and, unfortunately, their support does not qualify for exemption. If it exceeds the statutory tax exemption threshold, it will be subject to tax. This is one of the nuances that, in the course of this urgent procedure, I believe will discriminate against these companies and subsidies. I don't think it's wise or right for us to do this. Of course, from the point of view of the reasonableness of the legal procedure, it would have been logical for the Commission itself to interrupt this second reading, since this is such a significant change, for example, the political groups could have made further amendments to § 2 of the amendment to the Income Tax Act and dealt with them in Parliament quickly next week, but unfortunately this did not happen. I say that, unfortunately, in this form, they are certainly not reasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U214	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U215	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good decision-makers, workmates here at this moment! Yes, on February 24th, when there were a lot of people gathered in front of the Russian embassy, people already wrote names on the papers and how to do something. It was the N.T.U. that's been dealing with these things for years. The people woke up with this [helping] wish, the country gave the right message by supporting Ukraine, because today Ukraine is fighting for our independence. We're gonna meet you and we're gonna make this income tax exemption. It was a message. Now we see that there is a conscious targeted cash flow, i.e. then only through these non-profits you can send it. No one really gets the money back. I think there's 10 million donated by now, maybe half of it has gone through the NGOs. There's also a charity concert, a web concert, and these names are running on [screen], but not all of them are listed in this bill. Is and how much will really come of this release? It is logical that, as we have said in most of the amendments to the law, donations made to the Ukrainian State since 24 February, if they exceed a certain amount, will be exempt from income tax. That would make perfect sense to everyone. But what's predicament is, in fact, that one NGO has already raised quite a large amount of money, over a million. Refugee aid, which did not qualify as a partner in the country this year, but who delivers like a country in the country. And as we learned, neither does our IRS have the ability to control it. As we understand it, there isn't. Perhaps they are simply organising passenger transport from the border to Estonia. We are facing quite a problem because 80% of those in need have come to Tallinn. But we have established, somehow, the state has strategically placed four centers where perhaps to disperse them, how that would be necessary. Today is just the situation where they have been given a choice. The bigger problem is that for those who had to go only through here in transit at first and then to Finland for example, a bird has already sung somewhere on the shoulder to make sense to stay in Estonia, in Tallinn, because children can do this in a short time at a Russian-speaking school. But it's not what I want to talk about. I want to talk about the fact that the Estonian isn't very kind, but if he's doing charity work, opening his wallets, and we've said something, but if we're cheating on him halfway, we're cheating on him forever. It was a film, dear people, who are making these proposals here and laws that leave so broad room for interpretation. This quote is from Arabella, the daughter of a pirate. Here's the quote: "Maybe he's right. Maybe he's right. People have asked me, and they're asking me today, "What's going on? Is the Defence League no longer reliable? " And then today I get to know that the Estonian Refugee Council did not qualify at all as a cooperation partner of the state. How do I have to understand this? If the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has these fauna, non-moveable fauna blossoms, they will interrupt its reading. And we're still going to make sure people who have donated don't feel they've been tricked. Because we don't know when we're gonna need it again... We're in good faith, people have made these donations, and now we're doing some sort of midway, directing it relatively... Well, let's say a drop of tar could ruin the honey pot. Maybe spoil, maybe don't. But I'm worried about the donors. It's not like donations aren't going to pass, but people are getting more skeptical, and that help isn't coming so fast. I will tell you all who want to ask me who to donate to: the smart one is not rushing, because the Riigikogu does not know where to point them to yet, but it could still be directed to the Ukrainian state as it was intended. The Ukrainian state needs help. Slava Ukrainiani! Slava Nazi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U216	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the main objective of this draft 506, which is the provision of construction data. The Commission's rapporteur had to send the Commission's debate, but it remained one-sided. This is the issue of the conditions of construction for which the main contractor has the obligation to submit data to the Tax and Customs Board. The representative of the Commission presented his version of the case here, but the other party did not mention it. In the draft submitted by the Government, balance or construction conditions are still the subject of a long discussion with the sector, a compromise has been found, and the Tax and Customs Board has also been negotiated. I think the Tax and Customs Board still has the best view of how it makes sense to prevent tax fraud and control tax matters. Well, now on another subject. Yes, indeed, what problem do we solve? According to the current Income Tax Act, a legal person may have to pay income tax to the State on gifts and donations. Section 49 of the Income Tax Act contains a list of non-profit organisations benefiting from income tax advantages to which gifts and donations are exempt, provided that they do not exceed 3% of the amount of payments subject to social tax and 10% of the taxpayer's profits in the last year. If a legal person wishes to make a gift or donation above the threshold to support Ukraine, it will not be able to do so tax-free under the current Income Tax Act. That's the problem we're solving. This issue is simply urgent, given the current situation, and this was the reason why the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported the proposal to include this subject in the draft amendment to the Tax Administration Act. Indeed, the purpose of this amendment is to exempt from income tax during a limited period of time this year, i.e. until 31 December including donations and gifts made by a resident legal person to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and to provide and organise humanitarian aid on an ad hoc basis. Indeed, the amendment contains specific non-profit organisations for which gifts and donations for specific purposes are exempt from tax. Demarcation of associations enables the Tax and Customs Board to verify the targeted use of donations made without a substantial increase in the administrative burden. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs support this proposal? Reasons, too. First of all, this solution really helps to resolve this matter quickly. Secondly, the Ministry of Finance must have the opportunity to have an overview of who has donated to and where. And thirdly, in the case of a tax credit, the conditions must be limited to a specific and specific framework. These were the Commission's arguments. For my part, I call for support for this Commission amendment. However, the first proposal, which concerns the proposal made by the Fatherland to change the conditions for construction works, is not because there is a reasonable balance in the original draft, which has also been negotiated with the sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U218	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! I can confirm what Aivar Sõerd just said here. The original idea of the bill was, of course, different than the saddle, as it was exquisitely said here. But as far as this pig is concerned, I would say that the dispute was actually the opposite of that of Martin Helme's handler Urmas, but then it was decided that the smallest construction companies would not be subject to this rule, which is the purpose of the bill. So, in fact, a relatively loose decision is being made here, which can be argued about, because fraud is a fraud, it cannot be said that it is morally better if it is smaller. Now for that saddle. The Commission's waitress here was basically a fraud. Aivar Chef. These sentences, all of which spoke of how the draft absolutely does not help and how the draft of the Fatherland is good and so on that the answers were not given in the Commission, well it is a scam, it is a direct lie. Such a thing can, at the very least, be done on its own behalf, but it is not possible to put forward views in this way that were left in a distant minority in the Commission. It can, however, be praised as such in the light of a majority of the Commission's decisions or of the Commission's decisions. But here, a different bill was approved. So, what were the answers in general? First of all, the purpose of the donation is to give away your money, it's a donation. The fact that the state is writing down an obligation from there is a great deal of service. And that's why it's the general rule to make sure that money isn't transferred out of the company or income under the name of a donation. This is a general rule, an elementary principle of Estonian taxation. And Estonia's advantage over Ukraine has always been its administrative capacity, including the ability to prevent fraud and corruption and to collect taxes. Let us remember: the donation goes to Ukraine. It is a very fundamental question that Estonia should also demonstrate its capacity here. We have taught Ukraine a great deal and, in recent times before the war, we have also reprimanded the President, for example, that this fraud and corruption have not been eradicated. Hopefully, there is greater cleansing in Ukrainian society today, with a great deal in mind, and one who has always helped to do so is the Republic of Estonia. So let's not soil the Republic of Estonia, let's not appear here in a tone like tax collection is some kind of punishment. No, it's a matter of the dignity of the citizen and the state. It's about someone giving away money in good faith, and then the state's cheating on him. Well, that's absurd. Well, good faith is that you're giving up your money for someone. You're gonna give yours away. This is the starting point. In this regard, it is known that donors have also asked the Ministry of Finance for donations, and probably also the tax office for tax purposes, all of this was discussed in the Commission, under what conditions can be donated with a tax credit. It's been asked. And anyone who gives up their money is actually considering it. On the one hand, he knows he's giving up his money, and if he thinks about the tax credit, he's still gonna figure it out. So don't play a real fool around here. You don't have to play fools and say there's been some huge inequality here. No, it's not. All NGOs have the same rules on how to get into exempt lists. The aim of the amendments to the current draft is still to make a very, very large... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U220	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U221	... to receive and take away the limit of donation. Still, one aspect of a dignified country is that it controls its finances. He needs to understand that money isn't carried away and that the other half will use it honestly. That's a very big question. This is also the question that has arisen in Estonia as to whether it is really known where the money is being given, and it is not being stolen again, as has happened with external aid, unfortunately. That's a problem. This is no place for taunting Estonia; it is a question of Estonia's dignity, that it also grows Ukraine, that it also raises donors. This is one of our quality indicators and one of the reasons for our country's success. And those to whom they donate do not compete with each other. This isn't a market competition, let's not play a fool again. Also, let us not play a fool, as should those who are subject to the tax credit, also be able to donate to the state and ask for tax back. It's a ridiculous point of view. Why does the State have to finance itself by exempting its own taxes? It's another rule that's elementary. No, the public authorities do not grant tax exemptions to anyone. And in general, this is one of the exceptions to Estonia's well-functioning tax administration, which is written here, that we no longer limit the withdrawal of money from income, either from the income of a company or from the income of a private person, to the fact that we do not tax it from a certain point of view. It's a military response. Let us appreciate that. But let's not throw the baby out with the washing water. Fair taxation and honest, truly self-sacrificing donation, which is natural in normal circumstances. In a war situation, there is one exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U222	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U223	Thank you. I just came here to be more specific. Jürgen said Lemmi Oro didn't say that sentence, but I'm just reading the protocol. I have not written this record, and the chairman of the committee has signed it. "Lemmi Oro said that it was decided to add another organisation to the Rotary Club Tallinn Old Town. The information shall be forwarded to the Commission in writing. " That's what I said. And when Aivar Sõerd asked me why the two organisations differed, the record also states that these questions I asked and explained exactly the same things. It is not quite the case that there is only one truth or two truths. But I suggest all members of the Riigikogu look. To be honest, I was hurried to see that seven clubs were listed here, and I found at least one member of the Riigikogu who is working as an expert at the NGO Mondo. However, we did not receive an answer as to why these seven NGOs and why it is not possible to do these things through a single bank account in the country. This is the situation whether you want it or not. We can all look at this protocol. We asked the committee why these NGOs, why not the other NGOs. There was a large group of applications that wanted to become NGOs for whom donations would be exempt from income tax. The last letter to the Commission was sent by one company, which said that it saw that the number of the current account of a bank in Ukraine to which money was transferred was very clear at the Ministry, in the hope that it would be exempt from income tax, and made a transfer of EUR 100000. However, the money transferred to this current account is not exempt from income tax. That's the question. However, as I emphasised before, as a Commission rapporteur, one amendment did not go through with the Commission's votes and the other went through. Finally, if the hall so wishes, it would be possible to vote on these amendments, but I was able to say what was written in the Commission's minutes before and read the answers that are in the minutes. And if I'm asked for a personal opinion, I'll answer with a personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U224	Jürgen Ligi wants a reclining.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U225	Well, since I was challenged, I have to make it clear that I have not said anything about Lemmi Oro or the specific answer given in the committee. I described the Commission's report on the flagship. It did not reflect the Commission's decision, it did not reflect what was actually answered to the questions, but it did literally say that this draft does not help at all, that it is unfair and that no answers were given. I assure you, the answers were very good. Those who understand how exemptions are managed understood everything. In fact, such presentations from the Committee on Monetary Affairs should no longer come on behalf of the Commission. It was not even a debate; it was simply a reflection on a draft which was approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U226	Let's move on with the negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, indeed, the debate has gone to what is right and what is not right. I, too, am 100 percent convinced that donations must not be abused, that money must not be transferred, and that control must be maintained. But I would like to remind you that we had the subject of donations here not very long ago, within this year's period, under discussion. We gave speeches and wondered how to send a message to society so that we could have more voluntary donations. And it seemed as if everyone in this room felt that yes, we should move in that direction. We've got income tax benefits on the list of non-profits I looked up just before I came here to pick up 2003. Now I would like to say that those who here have tried to claim that they should check and that is why this list cannot be longer than exactly seven names, so that the 2603 might somehow use their donations, which they are collecting, in black. Shouldn't the IRS be checking them out? Of course, the tax authorities have to check. Of course, they must use their donations for their own purposes. There's no doubt about that. I think it's the rest of these non-profits how to say it politely? The understatement, or even the labelling, that has now hatched from this debate. I have no connection with the Rotary Club Tallinn Old Town, and I do not personally know any people there. I believe that there are very dignified people who do a great deal of good both in Estonia and beyond Estonia's borders, including Ukraine. But I made sure we still have 12 Rotary Clubs. Are they less reliable? I'd ask you that. Or if we've listened to this debate here too, that there were a whole bunch of applications, but others didn't qualify for that seven. If we have the first six in any way, you could say, such a nationwide coverage, is not like regional, then you just get a weird opinion. Let a good member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs speak here, I mean Jürgen Ligit, whatever it is, that it is as if the Commission should provide answers, but if there was still no answer to why such a choice turned out to be, that answer did not come. You can say anything, Jurgen. Neither did your speech come out of why these almost 2600 NGOs did not qualify. All of this could be arranged if it had been wanted. You could control all of this if you wanted to. It's all about wanting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U228	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning to come here either, but listening to this saddle story from here on out and the saddle story from there on out, I have to admit that we still have a very bad habit of making laws here in the Riigikogu to talk about shoes under the Book Act, to talk about the anthem about the flag law, well, the saddle was now put on the pig. It would really be very simple and very elegant to do so in order to leave this amendment to § 2 without this list, to finish with a point and everything would be okay. But now there is an exception where there really are a few or three small choices. I, too, stress that I have nothing against any non-profit organisation, but this exception and the rejection of others are not in line with good practices, customs or the constitution. The old Latins have said, 'pecunia non olet', 'the money doesn't stink'. Turns out it stinks. It stinks for some, not for some. Ladies and gentlemen, § 12 of the Constitution does not allow unequal treatment, but here I see it very clearly, on this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U230	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have been made to this draft. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U231	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U232	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing amendments to the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and that we are currently discussing the first amendment made by the Group of the Fatherland and the Steering Commission have disregarded. The Fatherland Group has asked to vote on this. I shall therefore put the first amendment to the vote, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the lead committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U233	The proposal is supported by 12 members of the Riigikogu, against 48. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U234	Thank you. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U235	Got it. Since we have just voted, can we go to the vote? We can. Thank you! I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U236	The proposal is supported by 45 members of the Riigikogu, against 16. The proposal was supported. We have therefore examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading be stopped, but we have also received the proposal of the Conservative People's Party Group to interrupt the second reading, and we also need to vote through it. Since we have carried out two votes and there is an immediate vote, can we vote? Thank you! I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U237	15 members of the Riigikogu support the proposal to interrupt, 48 against. The proposal was not supported. So we're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U238	Let's move on to item six. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Isamaa Group in support of Ukraine 542. Speech chair, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U239	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Income Tax Amending Act in support of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft is to exempt donations and gifts made by resident legal persons in support of Ukraine from income tax. This exemption is intended for a period of one year and before the expiry date of the exemption, i.e. 24 February 2023, it can be assessed whether it is appropriate to extend it or not. § 1 of the Bill supplements the Income Tax Act with § 491. Its paragraph 1 provides that a resident legal person shall not pay income tax in support of Ukraine's struggle for freedom, support for Ukrainian war refugees, humanitarian aid in Ukraine and donations and gifts in support of Ukraine's reconstruction, if the donations have been made to accounts designated by the Government of the Republic until 24 February 2023. Paragraph 2 of the same section states that the Government of the Republic shall determine the accounts referred to in subsection 1 of this section and shall arrange for donations to be directed to those in need. The law allows resident legal persons to make donations and gifts for one year in support of Ukraine's struggle for freedom, support for Ukrainian war refugees, humanitarian aid for Ukraine and tax-free support for Ukraine's reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U240	There are no questions. Still, anyway. We stormed ahead of events. Ladies and gentlemen, quick fingers help to avoid this situation. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U241	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The fight for freedom: whether and in what way is this defined for us, or, say, for the draft? Do we mean their territorial integrity? I support a better sector; they have been fighting for the territorial integrity of Ukraine for over seven years. Is it still in the fight for freedom, or is it going into armed opposition against the occupiers at this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U242	Thank you. The question was so complicated that one answer is difficult. But it is clearly stated that legal persons can make donations in support of Ukraine's struggle for freedom, in favour of Ukrainian war refugees, these are people who have also reached Estonia today, for Ukrainian humanitarian aid, i.e. for what I talked about in the previous section, also for medicines and on its side, and for Ukraine's reconstruction, free of tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U243	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! It was here that we finished a debate on a bit of a similar subject, and we have two drafts ahead of us. My question is simple in itself: if you compare these two drafts, which gives better opportunities for support and which is fairer in terms of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U245	Thank you. If you look at these two drafts, the draft submitted by the Pro Patria Party, which we are currently discussing, gives everyone who has made donations the opportunity to benefit from a tax exemption. It should be stressed that both drafts are subject to retroactive contributions, including those made from 24 February. After all, it is not the companies that have made donations in millions of euros to date, when at some point it has been decided that only seven organisations are the ones through which the tax exemption could come. We have received a letter, for example, from an entrepreneur who has made it very clear that, including on 7 March, the Ministry of Finance published a press release that the Ministry of Finance is planning a higher tax exemption for companies supporting Ukrainians. This is about the draft we are currently discussing. Paradoxically, within this same press release, the Ministry has once again distributed an appropriate bank account for the donation, an account for the Central Bank of Ukraine, and has also given specific numbers. But when we talk about the previous draft, in fact, in the case of the amount allocated to this account, for example, one company, the chairman of the board of directors Tarmo Sild, who has made a transfer of EUR 100000 to this account through his own company, there will be no exemption from income tax. In the case of a draft submitted by the currently pending Fatherland Party, he could.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U246	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U247	Good manager! Dear waitress, Well, in the case of the previous draft, these are the seven elves of the government, the elves named Mondo and Refugee Aid, who will receive an exception or a so-called advantage. Now the proposal of the Fatherland is like wider, there are no seven elfs. But my question. In difficult times, of course, the Government of the Republic is every cent expensive, every dime. Now, if you compare, how much income tax does the government earn by granting an exception to only seven dwarves, but not to everyone? Have you calculated it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U248	Thank you, Peter! The government doesn't make any cents on it. You can calculate the other way around if there is no income tax exemption, how much then the state could receive more income tax. That way could definitely be calculated. But it is not human lives that we are debating today whether or not it is possible to receive support from them. Today, Estonian entrepreneurs and people have been very supportive of Ukraine, many companies and people have made donations. Above all, it is important to make financial contributions to Ukraine. Or, on the other hand, countries here make contributions from the military industry, but ordinary entrepreneurs and people still use different ways to make donations. Ukraine still wishes to receive the most donations of money, and the second is humanitarian aid, which is already needed here in Estonia for nearly 20,000 refugees. These are opportunities to support them. It is precisely this part of the draft that we have tabled that is clearly stated that these subsidies, which may last for months or years, would also fall under the exemption from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U249	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! No war can be won if you don't have enough weapons and if you don't have enough ammunition. As we know, Ukraine actually lacks this, too. If I go back to the government bill again, the government didn't really provide a tax credit for armaments and ammunition. These organisations, which are mentioned there, do not deal with such matters. It is regrettable, of course, that the website of the Ministry of Finance contained false information or, let's say, misleading information in order to enable organisations to recover [by donating income tax]. But my question: how will you look at this issue on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U251	This draft still speaks very clearly about the support of war refugees, the reconstruction of humanitarian aid and support for the fight for freedom. All areas are listed here. I do not believe that our entrepreneurs and people are going to move weapons there, but we can provide financial support directly to Ukraine. And the Ukrainian Government will make those decisions that at the moment seem right to it, which are most needed at the moment to buy or what needs to be done. This bill is more comprehensive, it's fair to all donors. Because now there may be a situation that, because of this confusion, there is still a week to wait and no donations, because they want to see what this great hall here, the Riigikogu, finally decides and when the President will declare the law. Only then maybe the next donation will be made. It is now important at the moment to help and in the days to come to help the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U252	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U253	Good manager! Good waitress! I repeat my question. Of course, the government doesn't take it, but the state budget also needs to be fattened. Now seven elves get this exception, but the rest of us who want to help Ukraine cannot, and this income tax remains in the budget. Have you figured out how much this could be? How much are we going to increase the budget with this step, in the case of aiding it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U254	Thank you, Peter! This depends very clearly on how many donations are made outside the seven companies. Today, much of the donations come from elsewhere, another way made. If we know that these donations have been made today in millions and the tax rate is 20%, then in the end everything depends on how much this donation amount is, so much will have to be paid to the state at one point. Most NGOs, a very large part of them, as the previous speakers have said, are also exempt from income tax. These NGOs themselves do not pay, but those entrepreneurs who have made donations must pay income tax to the State and receive support from it. We are hearing some very interesting figures today, it is said that for 200 million euros the state has provided arms assistance and another, second and third decisions have been made that have not been discussed in the Riigikogu. They are not included in the supplementary budget. Here on Monday we heard how agreements have already been signed for half of the EUR 420 million allowed, while there are no lines in any state budget. The next few weeks will be interesting here in the Riigikogu. Somewhere, as with these decisions, there should be an additional budget and a hammer kick of the Riigikogu to confirm them. But we had a very interesting conversation with Minister Riisalo this morning. We asked exactly the same questions about the same seven organisations and about the role of the country. Then the answer was, in any case, that there had been no agreement on the state side. We asked why these companies or NGOs were here, but we didn't get the answer. In the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I clearly understood that all these proposals came from the Ministry of Finance. These questions can also be asked by the Commission's rapporteur, perhaps the chairman of the committee, who perhaps knows a few things a little better on this subject. But clearly, our bill is fair. It is also fair to say that we and our group in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have said that if these amendments had gone into the previous draft as such, we would have been able to withdraw our draft after the third reading. At the moment, this draft was supported by consensus within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U255	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! On behalf of the Committee on Finance, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Committee, will speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U256	Honourable ambassadors! Good chairman of the sitting! The draft 542 was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 March. We also invited representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The content of this draft is the same as one of the amendments to the previous draft. Perhaps the essence is that donations made by legal persons in support of Ukraine are exempt. The difference is that this bill would exempt all donations to Ukraine from income tax rather than from the list of organisations. At the same session, both proposals were under discussion and this, the draft initiated by the Fatherland, received a proposal to conclude the first reading, it was a consensual proposal. The deadline for amendments is 18 March at 4 p.m. That's it. The initiator of the bill has very detailed its content, so I will be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U257	And please! Andres Metsoja is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you can also open this discussion in the sense that what is the problem, that it is as if difficult to implement this bill as such? This was also mentioned under the previous point. Why don't you enlighten me one more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U259	There was, in fact, no very much discussion within the framework of this point, as it took place in the context of the previous Commission agenda item. This was also an excellent reflection in this Chamber, both in the form of questions and answers and in the negotiations, which were very passionate. The difference is, as I mentioned, indeed that the amendment to the previous item mentioned a list of seven organisations for which donations would be exempt from income tax, and that is without prejudice to donation. The Commission has received a number of proposals on which organisations could be listed there. For example, on the previous item, there was the idea of the Defence League, which is not an NGO, but it was proposed to do so. Then there was the idea that local governments could be donated, and a whole series of other ideas. Some organisations that had just been formed were also proposed. In this sense, the seven organisations [in this draft we discussed] were eventually left on the previous agenda, but the current draft does not limit them. So either it's hard or it's easy to put it into practice, isn't that what the future will show if this bill goes through the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U260	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U261	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On the previous item, we saw preferences for individual [organisations]. And at this point, if the coalition now decides to vote it down, as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you would still be able to answer perhaps such a simple question. How ethical is it to tax the provision of aid to a country under war or attack by way of income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U262	Thank you. Well, this is not the key to the Commission's discussions. But I wouldn't dare to consider income tax an unethical phenomenon. Now that we are looking at this situation today, where there is a war in Ukraine, I recall, however, that the Estonian state has also come to help. And income tax is one of the sources of government revenue. Now to think that if income tax is paid, it is written off and it is extremely unethical, and the state cannot do that, well, I do not share that opinion. But once again, the Commission did not discuss this in this key.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U263	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U264	Thank you. For the sake of clarity, I'm gonna ask you, Andrei, just in case. Did I understand correctly in the Commission that all the proposals for the seven organisations that were recorded there have come from the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U265	Yeah, well, there were different channels. The roofing organization of the Rotary Club turned to different places. In summary, this list came from the Ministry of Finance, but was drafted as an amendment by the Commission at this last meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U266	Mr. Chef, did you accidentally confuse drafts 506 and 542? We are now discussing the proposal launched by the Isamaa Group. [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Okay. No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U268	The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 542. But before we go to this proposal, we will be able to open negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. So we've finished our first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 18 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U269	Let us move on to our seventh item on the agenda. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Helle-Moonika Helme, Siim Pohlak, Leo Kunnas, Peeter Ernitsa, Riho Breiveli, Anti Polandmets, Alar Laneman, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reitelmann, Jaak Valge and Reuben Kaalepi on the proposal to close the upper secondary school section of municipal-owned schools in rural areas. This is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U270	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu and everyone who follows us online! Indeed, the EKRE Group has asked the Prime Minister about the proposal to close the upper secondary school section of municipal schools in rural areas. A specific question to the Ministry of Education and Research we also made to Minister Liina Kersna. However, this specific question deals with the issue more broadly on the basis of internal security, regional policy and defence policy issues, as the transitions to this topic basically cover all matters of state life. We have therefore asked the Prime Minister to answer the question this time. I'm also going to do a little bit of a review, maybe for those who are watching us over the Internet to open up a little bit of the content of this question. The Ministry of Education and Research has proposed that local governments organise the school network, which essentially means offering a bonus for the closure of the municipal upper secondary schools with fewer than 100 pupils. And those municipalities that take advantage of this option will receive a grant of 1152 euros per student. However, the experience of Estonian regional policy proves that where the school or part of it disappears, the local population will also decline, which in turn will lead to problems with the labour force on the ground, problems with local companies, reduced efficiency and appreciation of infrastructure maintenance resources and, in the long term, the question of the meaning of living in the countryside will arise at all. Thus, the existence of a school covering as many levels as possible in rural areas is far from merely a question of educational activity. It is a broader quality of life that the country can and wants to offer to its citizens. This should not only be the subject of the administration and decision-making powers of the Ministry of Education and Research, because decisions that are taken will sooner or later become problems in the administration of the Minister of State Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. The security of the state, which we are talking about here every day, depends directly on those people, structures and networks that are away from the major centres at critical moments. A functioning and dense and comprehensive school network is a very important part of security. Here are the questions that the Prime Minister will hopefully present to us, and hopefully we will also get substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U271	Now Prime Minister Kaja Kallas can answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U272	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for your willingness to respond to this question today on Wednesday, not Monday as usual. It's just that it wasn't possible to come on Monday. But I'm about to start answering questions. Question one. "Whose initiative was it decided to provide local authorities with basically public funding for the closure of upper secondary school in rural schools? Is it only on the initiative of the HTM, or has this pressure come from the Ministry of Finance? " First of all, I would like to stress that the one-off support provided by the Ministry of Education and Research for local authorities to clean up the school network is an opportunity, not an obligation. The principle that the decision of the school network is taken by the municipality itself continues to apply. The task of the municipality is to agree, by involving the community, what is the school network of the municipality, which can be maintained and which meets the expectations of the people of the municipality. The Ministry of Education and Research offers advice, support in research and analysis so that the best quality education can be available anywhere. During the negotiations on the state budget of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities and the Government of the Republic, many meaningful discussions have been held on the issue of the organisation of the school network, including the responsibility for secondary education, since 2009. The representatives of the Estonian Cities and Municipalities Association have been involved in all measures to motivate the organisation of the school network. So the answer to your question is: this is a subject that has been discussed at length and, of course, the Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Association of Cities and Municipalities, is a problem for local authorities. The second question: "Is this proposal linked to government plans for cuts and the concept of a balanced state budget? Is this initiative a political decision approved by the government? " The answer to the first question is no. Perhaps there is no link with the cost savings of the state budget. This support measure has not been discussed directly by the government. It is the task of the Ministry of Education and Research to provide guidance and support to local governments so that children across Estonia are guaranteed a very good quality education. The third question: "What will be the cost of the state budget if the municipalities decide to take advantage of this opportunity offered by the state? " As you yourself said in your inquiry, EUR 1152 per student, or up to EUR 0.6 million, is planned for this purpose. But the local authority decides to use this support. When many make such a decision, that is a separate question. Now question four. "What will be the revenue of the state budget in the long term if municipalities decide to close up upper secondary schools in rural schools? " This is not a state budget revenue project, but an opportunity for local authorities to create a sustainable school network. As a result, first of all, the local government is able to offer higher pay to primary school teachers and support specialists, second, the local government can pay more attention to the quality and availability of basic and basic education, to modernising the learning environment and optimisation of the surface for primary school students, and thirdly, it can also offer better opportunities for upper secondary school students, as the practice of creating state secondary schools shows that the more students are in upper secondary school, the more selective courses and courses available to students. Question 5: "Are there any indirect losses due to a possible drop in the quality of training activities and the stress that students must feel when going to school far from home and away from their family? "The development plan for the field of education 2021-2035 is also supported by the University of Tartu study "Supporting the development and school exchange of students in different types of primary schools" which was completed this year, point out that it is important to ensure close-home learning, especially at the first and second level of primary school. In the third stage of comprehensive school, if students are already significantly more independent, municipalities should concentrate their education in their larger centres. Praxis study 2014: Analysis of the Estonian core school and upper secondary school network by 2020 revealed that the choice of upper secondary school is not a school distance for young people. The young person's choice is based on his/her own interests, choices and a learning environment suitable for an upper secondary school. This is confirmed by the current migration of the gymnasts. Already today, a large proportion of middle school graduates are going to complete general secondary education either to another local government or even to another county. Only 26% of students continued their studies at their home school during the academic year. Maybe most of them went somewhere else. It is much more important to ensure that students have transport. The Government-approved "Transport and Mobility Development Plan 2021-2035', which is implemented in cooperation with ministries, the Transport Board and local authorities, has provided for this. The main objective is to develop public transport services and infrastructure based on the network of centres set up in the local general plans in order to link the centres with each other and with its hinterland. Public transport, where traditional public transport is not economically viable, is solved by demand-based transport. Question 6: "Is there an analysis of how many middle school graduates may opt out of upper secondary school if the upper secondary school is moved away from their home? " The organisation of the upper secondary school network, which started about ten years ago, has not had a negative impact on students' further learning. According to the Estonian Education Information System, 3% of primary school students did not continue their studies after the end of primary school on average in 2013, and this percentage has not increased compared to 2020. Vocational education and general secondary education have also remained substantially unchanged compared to 2013, i.e. in 2020 22% of primary and 75% of secondary VET selected primary and secondary education. Question seven. Has this decision been preceded by an analysis of how the elimination of upper secondary schools in rural areas will affect our regional development, our internal security, our commitment to protection and our defence capacity in the long term? First of all, no one's going to take out high school. After all, it is the decision of the local government whether or not to attend such a school. The Ministry of Education and Research has carried out analyses and studies related to the quality and availability of education. For example, the establishment of state secondary schools is a regional political project that guarantees the student a high-quality and student-friendly access to general secondary education in each county. Internships have shown that the more students are in upper secondary school, the wider the volume of selective courses and courses available to students can be offered. This also applies to the provision of a national defence selective course. For years there has been effective cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Defence Resources, the Ministry of Education and Research, school holders and schools, regardless of the form of ownership and location of the upper secondary school. According to 2020 data, 74% of schools providing secondary education provided national defence education. The process of organizing the school network has had a positive impact on the number of students in national defence selective courses. Since 2013, the number of students who graduated from the national defence selective course has steadily increased. While it was 3,800 students in 2013, it was 5870 students in 2020. And the eighth question: "When the above tests have been carried out, where can they be viewed? "The development plans approved by the Government of the Republic, the regional development policies in the "Estonian 2035" strategy and the "Educational Development Plan 2021"2035" are available on the websites of the ministries responsible for the field. Reports of the National Audit Office to the Riigikogu, "Overview of the use and disposal of state assets 2013/2014. In 2005" and "The future of essential public services" are available on the website of the National Audit Office. The guide material drawn up in cooperation with the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, recommendations for organizing the school network are available on the website of the Association of Municipalities. Studies and analyses related to the subject are available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. In particular, I recommend that you look at Praxis's studies on "Organisation of the network of general education schools" and the analysis of the Estonian core school and upper secondary school network by 2020 as well as OECD analyses of "The analysis of the resource use of general education schools" and "Smart adaptation to shrinking in Estonia: regional preparation for demographic change," together with a summary of the key recommendations in the field of education. An overview of the teaching of national defence of students who have completed selected courses in general education schools is available on the website of the Defence Resources Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U273	And the ambassadors have questions. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! There's nowhere left to retreat. Those places where it has been decided on this gymnasium in the outlying countryside with the utmost spite of the preservation of.. there it is clearly already a community decision, a municipal decision. They christened their teeth, giving up many other things so that their children could have secondary education near home. I think it's very sneaky to offer them money now to listen, to book your school or upper secondary school, we'll pay you a little bit. The government should have a positive programme. On the contrary, pay even one-off support to these municipalities for fighting and maintaining these upper secondary schools in these small centres. I believe you agree with me: a 40-mile-a-day school trip back and forth is not normal. Why the government doesn't have a positive program, I'd like to know. Why do you encourage retreat, not persistence? Why don't you support the municipalities that have decided to maintain their upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U275	Thank you. As shown in these studies, it is important that students are able to study in smaller classes near home. But while we're looking at these high schools, these upper secondary schools, which are in these municipalities, we see that only a quarter of young people continue in their home school, most of them go elsewhere. I even have an overview of how much goes elsewhere, the migration of upper secondaryists from the local government to the second upper secondary school, such as the state secondary school or the other local government. There are schools here, like Häädemeeste High School, where 70% of the children go elsewhere. They go on their own, so the local school is completely there. Or Luunja Upper Secondary School - 77% of upper secondaryists go to another municipality, Sindi Upper Secondary School - 81% of upper secondaryists go to another municipality - Tarvastu Upper Secondary School - 85%. Perhaps, in fact, these are the choices that students make themselves. And, of course, it's up to each municipality to decide whether or not to have a high school. Their research, to which I referred, points out that children get more choices. Upper secondary school youths make their choices not because the school is close to home, but because of what their interests and real orientation are. So it's everyone's interest that children get the best possible education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U276	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We live in a very stormy world where things change very quickly. And my question concerns a very acute issue. In fact, Paide City has received over 200 war refugees from Ukraine. Among them are many children who have to go to school. At the same time, schools have their own budget, there are bounties, dining money and so on. This also poses a serious problem for the local government budget. So I have a question about when we will basically receive support for local governments, in this case for schools. I really need to know, because I have to go to the city council meeting tomorrow, and then I can give you some fresh information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U278	Thank you. Yesterday we really spent six hours discussing all the possible costs associated with refugees. It is true that 39% of the war refugees who have come to Estonia are children, 45% are adult women and 16% are adult men. Perhaps indeed, there are over 8,000 children, the majority of which are 61% aged 8 to 18 and the rest are 0 to 7 years old. We've mapped out all the needs, and we're really making an effort right now. The officials of the Ministry of Finance are sitting together to get these expenses together, so tomorrow we will first get the decisions made in the office that concern the costs. But the bounty, for example, is very clear: if you have children, that money will come with them. It's kind of like an accounting expense, you have kids that are accounted for, but now there's more kids coming and they're equally entitled to a bounty. This bounty comes from the state budget. So in this sense, local authorities do not have to worry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U279	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Schools in general are always a problem, as always is with education and funding for education. Ida-Virumaa, of course, is another topic because the community is different and the attitude is different. But still, I think we should find the means to support small schools. I myself have worked hard to maintain Toila Gymnasium and know how hard it is to find a burden on teachers and pay salaries. We have also come to the point that primary schools cannot support themselves. The Lyganian Council and the parish government approached me, they have a serious problem with their school. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The worst part is that if schools disappear, the culture disappears. Let's say in this...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U281	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U282	...in the district. We have to think about that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U283	Thank you. I mean, you guys are nice on your question, which is what these problems are. Exactly, there is no application for teachers, while at the same time we have a lack of teachers. However, it is not possible to pay salaries to teachers. I repeat that this opportunity offered to local authorities is precisely because of the creation of a sustainable educational network, which allows local authorities to also offer basic school teachers, support specialists, especially those who teach smaller children near their home, even higher pay. And the local government can focus on what the local government's task is, i.e. the quality of basic and basic education, accessibility, the necessary learning environment for basic school students, optimisation of the surface. Similarly, it gives upper secondary school students the opportunity to gain better opportunities. For indeed, the materials show that if, in schools with fewer than 100 upper secondary school students, there are on average nine optional courses taught, then in schools with 300 or more students, the choice extends to an average of 18 optional courses. Perhaps, in fact, upper secondary school students also receive better education. So the idea behind the Ministry of Education is that the local government has the opportunity to do more with this near-home school for smaller children. As we can see from the numbers, the majority of upper secondary school students are actually already going to a place other than their near-home upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U284	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U285	Good manager! Prime Minister! Yes, EUR 1152 as a bonus or what we call it, it is not a guideline or arrangement, of course the local government will look at what it is. But it's clear that if a gun hangs on the wall, it'll definitely be used in the third act. But my question is, how much of this is left unused? Or is everything going to be a commodity of everything the government is willing to pay local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U286	Thank you. I repeat, this is an opportunity, it is not an obligation for local authorities. If this school really matters to the community, they don't have to use it. That's why I can't answer your question how many people use it. It is the decision of the local authorities themselves whether or not they use it. The State has offered them this opportunity. Then, when they use this opportunity or the time is up, we know what the situation is, and we can say how many of them have used it. But, yeah, it's a local government decision. Here are just very different sizes of schools as well. These upper secondary schools are also of very different sizes. It is probably also a place where the local government has a insofar as the Cities-Cities Association has itself raised the issue of the need for any assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U287	Helle-Moonika Helme has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U288	Yes, thank you, good President-in-Office! Can I make a little bit more specific, please? I know, maybe this isn't procedurally provided for by the house and the rules of procedure, but I have a request that maybe I can ask before I ask my question. I've heard two numbers, and I just want to ask who's right. May I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U289	No, you can't do that. This is part of the negotiations or you have to fit all three or two questions in a minute. You may also ask some colleagues to ask this question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U290	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! On the one hand, it is certainly sad to hear that the state supports peripheralisation in connection with the closure of these schools, but that is also understandable. We submitted this question on 8 February. Well, as we know, the war has opened, and that is why it is inevitable that our talks tend very closely to those Ukrainian people who come here. It's clear now, right now, we know that there are about 8,000 children here who want to go to school soon. We actually have about 10,000 available school places at the moment, that is, it is in Estonia's calculations. And now I'm sure there'll be more Ukrainians. By what means, by physical means, do I mean schoolhouses [these problems will be solved]? Where do you want to put these kids? Where do they put them, all the kids who come here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U291	Thank you. Yeah, that's a very good question. Really, we're working on it. There are so many children at once. Can't say we've been counting on that. But we're already working on it. Since there are so many children, we are discussing whether to create a whole new school. The problem with Tallinn, for example, is that the local government wants to direct these children to Russian-speaking schools. But this is certainly not in the interests of Estonia, nor is it really in the interests of the people who come here. If they are in our community and are still here for years, they must learn the Estonian language so that we do not have all the problems that we have in society. And then that's the question of whether to create a new school. The rooms of Georg Ots Music School are free and there is also the possibility to make a modular school quickly. These opportunities are currently being mapped out and solutions are being sought in order to be ready quickly for the beginning of the school year. But all of this, like creating additional school places for existing schools, is what we do. It's just that there's so many of them at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U292	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U293	Thank you. I couldn't ask you the procedure, but it doesn't matter. You said several times that according to the polls, one quarter of the gymnasts leave their hometown and go to another school. Then you said three-quarters. But it doesn't matter. We all want our children to get a good education. If these studies show that the gymnastics are moving, maybe we should ask them why they prefer another school. Why don't we fix the school we have, instead of shutting it down? And while some children go away, there are children who actually want to be at home and go to a school close to home. Why don't you think about them? You are simply giving the municipalities the opportunity to close schools rather than giving them the resources to improve schools. After all, you are deporting children who do not really want to leave, but want to go to school near your home, so they have to go somewhere else against their will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U294	Mrs Helme! If I say that only a quarter of young people continue upper secondary schooling in their home school, then three-quarters will not continue in their home school. That's what this mess might be about. One quarter continues, so three quarters will not continue. I stress that closing or opening a school is a local government decision. The state doesn't make that decision, the local government does. There are very different sizes of upper secondary schools. You're always having a discussion with your colleagues, but if you ask me, maybe you'll listen, if I answer, maybe it's polite. But if you don't want to listen, I might not answer. We have very different sizes of secondary schools or upper secondary schools. Indeed, we have, for example, a school where there are 15 students in the upper secondary school, to whom all the same subjects come at the same level. And as Mr Breivel said in front of us, it is simply not possible to provide sufficient applications for teachers because there are no students. At the same time, we are short of teachers in other schools. At the same time, we have a low salary for teachers. The local government can raise the wages of primary school teachers who teach children who have to study near home. As I pointed out, studies say that small children could still study near home, but already before upper secondary school, seventh-twoth grade children are already more independent. But right now we're talking about high school. And now that these schools exist and the local authorities have not closed these schools, as I said, but a quarter of the young people who have the opportunity continue to attend their home school. Perhaps young people make choices according to these studies according to their own interests, according to what they want to do in life, rather than depending on whether or not the school is close to home.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U295	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U296	Thank you. I fully agree with what you said that the children who now come to us, right, these thousands of children, should be on their own in their own school, in their own environment, so that the trauma they have does not increase if they are sent to Estonian schools, even though they are disbanded in Russian schools. But what we are seeing right now is that their numbers are growing completely uncontrollable. We have adopted here today a draft with which our [party] did not agree that certain organisations could continue to transport people here, essentially human trafficking. Don't you think that one day we should have ten Ukrainian schools if everything goes on like this? We cannot continue this movement of people from the Polish border, because anyway we already have a significantly higher number of refugees in Europe than in other countries, most countries. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U297	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U298	Thank you. Yes, as I said in Question Time, the Estonian state does not bring people from that border. It is the people of Estonia who really want to help. And I have emphasised that the people of Estonia who wish to help could now focus their energy on those who are already in Estonia. It is precisely for this reason that we cannot help and bring all those people who are in trouble in Ukraine. Very rightly, you are suggesting that our percentage of these refugees is already quite high. We just have a certain level of resilience, and that is what we have to take into account. Now, what I'm saying is, I'm not saying that we can put all these kids in one school. There are 8,000 children, but schools aren't that big, nor will this school be that big. The other thing I want to fix is this. Personally, I do not support a separate Ukrainian school. It is for this reason that we still need to create here the situation that [they learn the language]. If they go to any other country, they will learn that [state] language. About a million people in the world speak Estonian, 31 million people speak Ukrainian, if I remember correctly. This means that they can certainly develop their language and culture further; no one makes them Estonians. But if they stay here not for a month, not for two months, but for a couple of years or more, it is important that they are still integrated into society and we do not create separate groups. There's no way we can support Ukrainian school either. Yes, there are Sunday schools where Ukrainians are taught their culture and language, but there should still be an Estonian-language school in the Estonian school system. After all, we have actually been in trouble here for a long time with schools that are purely Russian-speaking and therefore people do not know enough Estonian. So, in my opinion, we must not add to this problem yet, given that we are a small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U299	Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one question we can ask in our inquiry. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U300	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If good faith Estonian people bring refugees from the Polish border, then the government could also have its own vision of how to disperse them regionally. At the moment, 80% of them have come to Tallinn. I see that it would be reasonable now to organise the same school network in the form of the closure of small schools, because the school building as such can also be used as a housing unit. After all, this would be a much better goal for them to learn in the Estonian language environment, even in small rural areas where it can be offered. Because the city of Tallinn itself has announced that they are still directing everything to Russian schools, because Estonian schools do not have this capacity in the city of Tallinn. That's what the mayor of Tallinn said. Do you agree with this plan that at this point [the refugees] could disperse across Estonia and find an app?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U301	Thank you. Yeah, that's what we're trying to deal with. Regional dispersal is part of this plan. But the problem is that most people coming from Ukraine come from big cities. These are the people of Kiev and the people of Kharkiv. They want to be in town. We have examples of how people came to Tallinn, then they wanted to take them to a settlement near Tallinn, but they said they would not agree and they would come back here in any case. So it's the problem that people come from cities. But, yeah, it's right to pay attention. That is what we are trying to do, to disperse between different communities and to share this burden in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U302	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You gave quite a lot of details in your answers, but a part of your answer made me want to ask. Your words were "we should not cause ourselves more problems here," and you described that Estonia is not bringing in, but the people of Estonia are bringing in. I understand you're sensing that these numbers are getting really big, even too big. My question is: what is the government planning to do to keep these numbers within our capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U304	Thank you. I spoke about creating problems in this key so that we do not have such separate communities that are difficult to integrate into Estonian society. Yeah, we're working on it. Yesterday in the government office, we decided to start consultations at European level to remove and share the burden. Because indeed, Romania, Hungary and Poland are and, of course, we are also those countries with a higher percentage of refugees. Since such mechanisms are in place in Europe, the first step is to consult other countries with similar problems and see if we can take these steps together. But yes, we have already identified it that we want to be prepared [and do everything in order] so that this problem does not grow up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U305	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you the same question. Now that we have more students, I'd say, in thousands, this number could increase by over 10,000. The need for a bounty already grows very high in the municipalities; it does not exist in the current state budget. Do you have [and money provided] for this purpose as well as for many other matters that go to support and support war refugees? It is clear that an additional budget is needed for defence, but this is also an important aspect. How far do you have to plan this extra budget, which will inevitably come to us now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U307	Thank you. Yesterday, yes, we charted these concerns for six hours. It must, like, be split: there are estimated costs and non-calculable costs. The estimated cost is, for example, the same bounty. This means that the local government has the right to receive this bounty for the child in any case. We have an estimate in the budget of how many children there are, but if there are more, then just do not have to make any additional budget, but the budget will just go to the minus because this expenditure is higher. But for local governments, of course, it's exactly the same. And then we have unaccountable expenses. There will be completely new costs, such as additional Estonian language learning, which we do not have to do, but certainly needs to do so, and additional allocation is needed for this. Yes, right now we are mapping it, trying to send a signal quickly to local authorities on the costs of the fastest refugees, so that they have confidence. And we're still working on other issues. We are also currently gathering all the needs that are necessary for an additional budget. But the current focus has been that we can actually do things before the additional budget, because, for example, an increase in the estimated costs does not mean that we need to make a new budget, but simply that the budget is going to be negative, but because there are other costs too, yes... So tomorrow I'd like to move on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U308	Prime Minister, there are no further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Helle-Moonika Helme first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U309	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Prime Minister! The topic of the closure of rural schools is actually a bearded story. Since the Reform Party started ruling the country with the help of the Excel table, rural schools have always been under strain of closure. After all, nothing is important to the Reform Party but money, money, money, and, of course, money only if it can be saved for the well-being and well-being of its people. But when there's something to be done that's written elsewhere, or when it's necessary to offer benefits to strangers, money is never counted. We all know that, and we may not need to repeat that again. The people of Estonia have felt this very much in their own right when, due to the optimisation of public services, landmarks such as shops, schools, kindergartens and post offices have disappeared countless throughout Estonia. Villages are empty, and regional policy is mainly based on retreating, giving up, giving up, searching for countless reasons why it is no longer worth doing or keeping in the country. And all of this was laid the foundation during the 17 years of the Reform Party's reign, including this shameful era, when more than 100,000 people left their homeland and went to live and work abroad. Schools are an absolute prerequisite for maintaining the countryside. If you go after schools, life in the country will soon disappear completely, and such absurd schemes will surely have to be resisted. It is particularly ridiculous that schools are being put to death under the pretext of budget savings. When families start to leave the country because they no longer receive proper education, there will soon be no budget at all. But let's talk about some money. Let us take the example of Lääneanna rural municipality, where, for reasons of austerity, because the state does not provide additional money for the development of rural schools, seven schools in total want to lose different levels of school, which would give the rural municipality savings of EUR 150000. This is not a particularly large amount of money for this municipality compared to the budget in general. But if this reform went through, 14 teachers would lose their jobs. The tax revenue from their salary money alone is EUR 35000, which is currently in the rural municipality's budget, but will not be collected afterwards. On average, tax revenue is collected from the rural municipality's resident EUR 2000 per year. This means that if schools go to prison or reduce the provision of education services to families, quite a few families will move away from the area in the near future. If 15 people leave already, the municipality will lose another EUR 30000 of tax money. It's an awful short-sighted thinking that we're saving up on schools. If a school near home is lost, families will also go away, especially now that the fuel gallon is already paying a fortune to a rural man. So the notion that previously worked that parents can carry their children to the county school is no longer very relevant in the present situation. And I'm going to ask the Prime Minister here. It's awfully nice to save public money from someone else's life and someone else's child. But if he himself had to send his child away from home to school at a gentle age, well, even if a child aged from upper secondary school isn't yet an adult to live independently, to sleep alone at a school bed every night, and to study at a table corner, would he be as eager to draw these Excel austerity tables on country schools as for foreign children? Clearly, decision-makers, officials do not understand the painful choices of parents: whether life in the countryside and children in the early city boarding school, because the state cannot and does not want to spend resources on rural management, or whether the whole family is moving to the county centre to make sure that the child has a home, a mother and a father with whom to get a safe education. And it is quite understandable that the loving family of their child will eventually move away from the beloved country home, weeping and moving, and another municipality is doomed to impoverishment, squealing because people will leave because the public service will become deficit. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U310	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U311	This regional political downward spiral and provincialization is precisely the beginning of marginalisation of the local school. A parent can still work in the form of teleworking, but children are not raised through a computer, at least no normal person. And the factor that all of this does in the mental health of our children, of course, is not addressed at all. This inquiry was made when the world was still the same and in politics the sun was shining. But what's going on right now is going back on the country schools, it's all so lame and pathetic that there's just no words. The government lacked and has absolutely no understanding of what is a comprehensive and sustainable state. Understand that the Estonian state is not and its security is not guaranteed by the start-ups and unicorns pumped with steroids, but by a broad and meaningful regional policy, the essential component of which has always been the existence of a decent and dense school network in rural areas. Returning to the time when the previous government began to enter into a coalition agreement between itself, the EKRE had one condition, by the way, which also entered into the coalition agreement: that no rural school would be closed down and that the activities of the schools so far would not be brought together in any way. Although the pressure from the ministry was then very intense, we had a clear political decision taken and no rural schools were closed or reduced to the pressure of officials. Only the Reform Party came to power when the rabid dogs were released from rural schools' shutters and optimizers. One argument they have, by the way, precisely, as we have heard, is the OECD report, which gave the order to tighten the ends of rural areas. But how can Brussels or German officials tell us what we have to do? Actually, you shouldn't, but you can, because the ruler of the Reform Party serves them more than his country and his people. What do you say to that? The answers to our inquiry revealed that there is still justice. Well, everything that is now being done is very unfortunate because our own Estonian people, our children's safe and close education, are suffering first and foremost. But apparently, the cold calculation of the present rulers has come to the point that the fewer people on earth, the smaller the number of people you have to work for to become elected. It is easier for the people to move together in cities, to stick cities full of big posters, where they allow Estonia a better future, and made a better future. It is cynical, it is criminal in terms of Estonia's future. But whoever doesn't care doesn't care, no matter how pretty they say on the election poster, or how much better they promise Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U312	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U313	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! Good Prime Minister! Who has the opportunity to listen to what the people say, because they don't put all this in the memo. One song says that as long as your village lives, you will also live, O lovely Estonia! The closure of small schools has always been a problem, but perhaps one of the reasons is perhaps the living environment there as much as we offer some activity and something else. The new fresh blood is always the one that brings the buzz and the flutter, you know, sometimes the flutter becomes something else. But what do we hear? One argument for shutting down rural schools is that according to the survey, young people do not want to learn [there], they would like something else. The other thing that came out here right now is that a lot of war refugees don't want to be anywhere else, they'd want to be there. I'm gonna tell you again from this remote that I want Bambi's mother to live too. If there is still a very critical situation, people will have to accept what is really and truly available to them. At this point, the state can clearly say this, if 80% of the war refugees have already chosen Tallinn as a priority, then we are actually lacking capacity. We should see how we can disperse [people]. In many places where upper secondary school is taken away, young people actually stay in that vocational school, it's right there. Maybe that's its purpose. Then you should say it. Today, however, Estonia is in a whole new situation. Maybe we have a crisis, we have a lot of people coming in, and they're not coming, they're coming in. Not even the government's cooperation partner organisation organises the transport of war refugees to Estonia and preferably they all go to Tallinn. This is where the government should actually see a large number of people coming to our capital... I think that we will not accept anything resolutely until there are 100,000 war refugees in Estonia. For many who would otherwise have used Estonia as a transit country and gone to Finland, it has already been said on their shoulders that there is no point in going to Finland, that there are Russian-speaking schools in Estonia, that for a few years your children will be able to cope here. We could watch our urban sprawl take place. This deed, which Villu Tamme once, I think in 1987, sang that come to Tallinn quickly, that the people are little here, that it is an ideal land for you, that the fruit grows out of black soil, that the pavement is pure gold, that the yellow banana ripens in the birch, and I wrote that the birds groan the honey and the apartments here are enough for everyone, that take your family with you, that we meet in the Victory Square at the end of June... is no longer reality. If we cannot now take war refugees to rural areas, then obviously the Estonian people themselves will move to rural areas, and the school network must be filled. The second question and the place of concern that we do not see at this point in time by the government, but I think the Prime Minister shares this concern. This is the ones on 9 May and the so-called coloria beetle ribbons, according to which the occupiers identified themselves in 2014 during the occupation and annexation of Crimea so that they would not shoot each other. Can you imagine how war refugees now see this Red Army Sabbath, organized by Russian-speaking Tallinn, when the city of Tallinn is turning on more buses and then people come and then they come with the Z? We have another crisis conflict if we are not able to disperse war refugees in any way and, on the other hand, to immediately ban symbols that encourage hatred and war. Elmar Vaher, our good... Or no, it was Kristian Jaani who spoke somewhere there. Well, he didn't get it at all. He said, yeah, a little bit of a problem, but we'll see. We'll see, well, but that means if it's going to be another struggle, if we're gonna have half the town beaten up again, then we're gonna have to find some more resources. Smart learns from the mistakes of others. Stupid never learns. My country is not stupid. My country is wise, he learns from the mistakes of others and from his own mistakes. Therefore, we must minimise all possible risks so that we can also offer war refugees a safe recovery, a peaceful socialization of society, not that we invite them to one of the places from which a new hotspot may arise, because we are still blue-eyed or we have pink glasses. The color of this spring is not pink and pink glasses are not recommended to our government either. Slava Ukrainiani! Slava Nazi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U314	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U315	Thank you very much, manager. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you here in front of the TV? I was driven here by the remote from the Prime Minister's transmission, and this is precisely the side of the new situation we are in. Because yes, this inquiry, as I said, was submitted on 8 February, but there have been major changes since then. Now Mordor's red eye shines brightly from the Kremlin Tower towards us and looks here evilly. Things have changed. The circumstances have changed so deeply that today we have 8,000 Ukrainian students in this house, in our Estonian house, and obviously this is not the limit. It's probably growing, probably growing a lot. When I asked the question, the Prime Minister said that yes, they have been discussing this idea for six hours, mapping problems, and it is seen that here in Tallinn the mayor wants to put [Ukrainian children] in Russian schools, but it is not a good idea, it is not in Estonia's interest. I am now interested in what Estonia's interest is. Is Estonia interested in Ukrainian children? And if this is the interest of Ukrainian children, how can this interest be linked to learning the Estonian language and creating Estonian schools for Ukrainian children? It seems to me that this is a very slippery, dangerous and wrong path. When we hear those unfortunate and brave Ukrainian people who have come here, they say they believe in their army, they believe in the victory of their army, they win and they go back. We believe in the victory of the Ukrainian army, and we believe that they will return. Why and where do we then take this resource to teach these Ukrainian children in Estonian schools? We don't have houses for this, we don't have teachers. But at the same time, we have teachers coming here who speak Ukrainian. Let's not waste time, carpe diem, as they say in Latin. Let us still pull ourselves together and, as the old Romans said, mutatis mutandis, change what can be changed. So, dear government, come together, sit for another six hours, and if you need to, another six hours, and let us change the idea that we are going to teach Ukrainian children in Estonian in Estonian schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U316	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U317	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Good listeners! I raised my hand to speak because I don't like demagogy. This is indeed a very emotional issue. Tarmo Kruusimägi already sang some famous songs here. I think the whole speech could be built on Estonian songs. Not only do you sing "Until your village lives, you live," but you could also sing the opposite song "In a village far away, with your grandmother" and "A young girl doesn't have enough" and explain why young people want to go to big cities. But you could also sing Hando Runnel's song "The Earth must be filled with children and filled with grandchildren and grandchildren... and songs and children" because the main problem in this whole school network restructuring is our problem. What if all these fine magymnasiums were filled with our fine Estonian children who would like to go to a school close to home? But it's demagogic to understand what seems to have been borne by concern, because he's actually distorting the image that the Ministry of Education and Research has painted. The proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research, as the Prime Minister explained, has been an offer. It has been a voluntary desire to clean up and do so not because we lack money in places where we want to save but to provide children with better quality education. To give them more options to specialize in their respective directions, to learn different languages, to try to get the skills they can do better in life. It is also about giving teachers full-time work. Of course, there is little money, but it is not a lack of money, as the inquisitors asked, whether this should be a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. This is a matter of the essence of the school and the quality of education. This wallet is always limited and must be used in the best way possible. Somehow, it is not the children of vocational schools who, at the same age, have to go away from their home to receive an education that suits their wishes and orientations. I understand that we have concerns about Estonia's smaller places. I think it's very important that we keep the school in different places, but the question is, how long is the school with education? I believe it is worth discussing whether our primary school could be of six years, whether it would be possible to secure a school close to home for those children who would necessarily want to go to a school close to home from a certain age. This age limit is certainly conditional. I would remind you for a moment, when I went to Oxford University to study, I met my English colleagues who talked about their education system and talked about it as a natural thing that 11-year-olds go to public school, where they get a very good elite school education. It was a real shock to me. 11-year-old children leave home! They looked at me shocked. For education. The kids are independent, they can do it, they have good boarding schools. Why can't they go there? So it's definitely a notional. I'm worried that my 19-year-old third-child wants to move out of the house, and I'm not happy to see that he's already independent. He's laughing at me, which is why I'm so cramped to hold on to the kids staying home. I think it is a matter of negotiation, culture and really sense. But we should not take this to the question of where the limit is where children need to learn at home. We should get this first... One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U318	One minute more time! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U319	I think we should think this through first. We should really think about the quality of education and about what we can do to improve the restructuring of the Estonian school network in circumstances where we have few children and few teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U320	Peter Ernits, please! I'm sorry! Tarmo, do you want a line? Before Tarmo Kruusimäe's line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U321	Yes, thank you for this opportunity! Although it was recognizable that I was meant to be, I am Tarmo Kruusimägi, not Kruusimägi. Toomas Kruusimägi is the director of English College. We're often confused. Yeah, I actually find that everyone here can bring some citations and read prose in color. I may be more familiar with Estonia's punk culture and, of course, I will bring these sharp remarks from there. I want to bring here another problem today. It has triggered the unbridled charity that we currently have here in Estonia. It is all great if we want to help people, but someone must also dare to say from somewhere that we no longer have the resources and it is also not appropriate to take clothes and macaroni to the border with Poland, from which they are transferred, but they should actually be distributed here in Estonia. All the more so because, on several occasions, serious charitable organisations have said that please do not send clothes. Clothes are not the first thing these people need right now. Yeah, they might need some money. I know it hurts to tell people because they want to contribute to some extent, but the country could have a plan for charity. Even if this draft, which did not find support today, wasn't it, that companies could also help rebuild the Ukrainian country in a tax-free way, one of these measures could be one. I have always said that it was funny when the Polish state was divided between Germany and Russia and the English could not even formulate a statement during that time. But tomorrow, the third week of the war begins, and we see that we are not prepared. Our crisis management plan has been incomplete at this point in time, even if you look at how a non-governmental organisation organises the daily transport of refugees here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U322	It's the fourth week. Now Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U323	Good manager! Sire! We're in a whole new world after February 24. When we asked this question, these problems were something that, from the point of view of the moment, they seem a little out of their minds. Margit Sutrop here tried to imagine or leave [impression] that we are a group of half-baked people who don't know how life works and how education systems work in the country, but I don't think that's the way it is. As an ambassador to Tartu and Jõgeva County, I am quite well aware of what we have there, and I think that local authorities are mostly very concerned about their school network, including the upper secondary school section, which really can sometimes be quite small. But then again, everything is relatively specific about how things are done on one side or on the other. So the general problem and the general situation are, as the Prime Minister said, relatively different. And indeed, at upper secondary school level, young people are largely moving to a place where there is a bigger school, with more company and more people and better too, more teachers and so on. Well, Luunja near Tartu and many others. At the same time, however, there has been a proposal to reduce smaller rural schools and also smaller upper secondary schools. This so-called bonus, it is not really a guideline or an order, but still 1152 euros is a bounty or such flattery that, if you want, we will support you. But it is clear that, in fact, life is still in the so-called market failure areas, I use this word more widely, quietly but firmly pulled together. These Andres Sut's promises that from now on only 15 manned, humanized, or how was it? The post office is located all over Estonia and all such infrastructure. It's getting to one end. But after 24th, we live in a completely different reality. If you look at how many war refugees have come here today and how much of them are children, I do not have an accurate picture of how old they are, but in any case it is estimated that this should be the case, we have around 50,000 refugees here by the end of March, and there are about 200,000 children who should go to school or kindergarten. In view of the fact that in Russian schools there are.. I'm talking a little bit about round numbers, about 40,000, the question is, where are they going, which kindergarten or school in the language. Yes, on the one hand, Ukrainian would make sense, because I think many of them would like to go back after the war to their beloved homeland in Ukraine, but it is not known how long this mess will last. Either way, it doesn't end that fast. And the other half, we'll put it in Estonian schools, or the third, we'll put it in Russian. But I would remind you that most of those who have come here are Russian. The current Ukrainian community, those who live here, is also only 40% Ukrainian. And the company that now comes here in distress is also largely [Russian]. But at the same time I stress: I think that a large part of them are very pro-Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U324	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U325	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U326	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U327	Many of my acquaintances, whom I still communicate with, are actually Russian-speaking, but as Ukrainian-minded as they can be. And I think the same picture is here now, although there is no exact picture. But in any case, what is this option? What kind of school or kindergarten do you put them in? If there is Estonian society, Estonian school, Estonian studenthood is much larger than in Russian, they would dissipate there, but if they were to be put in Russian, the number of Russian-speaking school pupils would rise several times as much or as much as it is now. But I would like to remind you that in 30 years, it has not been possible to get very far in schools with Estonian language, that the Estonian language would become normal and that education would be in Estonian. It's been 30 years. And now, when suddenly another situation has arisen since 24 February, to believe that the situation is changing drastically and quickly, I am a little skeptical about it. So these discussions should run, and now is the time to talk about it. Not just how much is our capacity limit. Yes, in Europe, it is, I think, possible to relocate refugees to other countries, although, I recall, it has not been so smooth in the past. But where these children [go to study] and what language they become in terms of education is now crucial. This is crucial for the Estonian-speaking school and also crucial for Estonian Russian-speaking schools, which have now gone to Estonia under the leadership of the Reform Party. So these are painful, but important questions. Clearly, for Ukraine, we are keeping our fingers crossed so that this crazy war ends. But I'm not very hopeful, given the reality of the situation. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U328	Thank you very much. The ambassadors have no further requests to speak. The Prime Minister has expressed his wish to have another word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U329	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for this debate. I might stress once again what Margit Sutrop said in his speech. There is a demagogically added [this talk], as if rural schools were closed. On the contrary, it has actually been said that smaller children in primary school should be able to study near home. That's what the focus is on, so there's more resources. Therefore, this [the story of closing] is simply not true. Secondly, it is an opportunity for local governments, not an obligation. If it's important to the community, no one's forcing it to shut down. So there won't be a commitment. Although, right, here was the question of whether it was included in the objective of austerity. I replied very clearly that, no, this proposal is not included in the objective of austerity. Nevertheless, Mrs Helme, who chops like iron, comes here from the remote control that it is based on the objective of austerity. It is not based on the objective of austerity. What do you ask if you still chop what you want to chop? Now, there are several things put together here. One member of the Riigikogu said that you can see, the children choose the school themselves. We're talking about upper secondary school, again, we're not talking about this general middle school. In this regard, everyone believes that children must be able to study near home, and a school close to home is very important. So it's important. What else is important? What matters is that our children get a good education. And the quality of education in these schools, especially in upper secondary school, where we have electives, we have very complex subjects such as chemistry, physics. Physical education teacher can't teach physics, chemistry, I don't know what subjects yet. There are teachers with very special skills to teach certain subjects at the appropriate level, and this is more difficult in small upper secondary schools than in large upper secondary schools. And once again, if only a quarter of the students in upper secondary school choose the school they used to be in, and the rest go elsewhere, that's what's really going on. One small comment from Mrs Helmele: the OECD is located in Paris, not in Brussels or Berlin. Just for the record. Nobody closes little schools. You shouldn't say that. Like I said, it's the local government that's finally gonna decide. Now the question of the children of Ukraine. Of course, we all hope that this war will end quickly. We all hope that the Ukrainian people will return. They themselves have also said that we want to return home, Ukraine is our home. Absolutely. But in my opinion, we still have to prepare rather than go back right away. And now we have this choice whether we will teach these children to speak Estonian. If they go back to Ukraine, we have a community in Ukraine that can speak Estonian, among other things, they are Estonian friends there in Ukraine and are grateful for the help we gave them in the meantime. But if this does not happen because, for example, their hometown is completely bombed, they have nowhere to go, then we will not create a community that is not integrated into our society. Just for this reason, the Estonian language is a very small language and the Estonian cultural space is small. We must help these people to integrate. This does not mean that they are made Estonians. That's not what anyone thought. We just want to raise people who speak Estonian while in Estonia. Then they go on to study, they go on to work where Estonian is required. We do not really want to increase the proportion of people who do not speak Estonian in Estonia. I'll ask for more time if I can ask for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U330	Yes, you can. Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U331	Thank you. The question is, where do we take the resource so that we can teach them? Yes, there are teachers. As far as I know, 75 people are currently known to us as Ukrainian teachers or support staff, whom we can also use as assistant teachers to help children cope at school. But we don't have the same resource to make a full-scale Ukrainian school. And I really personally don't think that's a good idea. In addition to Estonian and Russian-speaking schools, we also have language immersion schools, which is one option, it is 40: 60. So they can also learn Ukrainian. If you look at the practice in other countries, there are schools that study in the national language, but also have their own language and cultural classes. For example, when my child went to school in Brussels, it was exactly that, every day he studied Estonian, although otherwise he taught French. This is to ensure that communication with your country does not disappear. Peter Ernitsa here also has a question of how old these children are. To date, we know that 61% of those who have come by now are of school age, or 8 to 18 years old, about 4800, and 39% are quite small, or 0 to 7 years old, and there is also additional concern about kindergarten places. So, yeah, it's problematic. I think it is very good that we are discussing this because it helps to get a sense of society and find the right solution here, because it is a completely new situation for everyone. But I gave you the reflection of how I felt about myself, how I could go about it. Of course, a parent has the right to choose a school for his child. And the decision we made in the office is that they should rather be directed to Estonian-speaking schools. For example, in terms of bounty, it doesn't matter if we give the bounty to the baby, I don't know, to the Russian school, or if we're going to create a new school. My sense is that we could create this new school. But this situation is new and we are discussing all the pros and cons, so your thoughts are welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-16_U332	Thank you. The negotiations are closed and today's last item is also over. The hearing is also over. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow.
