ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 9th working week. First, it is possible for members of the Riigikogu to submit questions or drafts. I see Raimond Kaljulaid wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all those who have returned to the Chamber since the end of the night. On behalf of the Socialists, I am handing over the draft law amending the law on granting international protection to an alien, which provides for a monthly contribution of EUR 210 to the good Estonian people who are willing to put their housing or housing at the disposal of Ukrainian war refugees. In drawing up this draft, we have taken as an example the support scheme that has already been put in place in the United Kingdom by the Conservative Government there, according to which 350 pounds will be given monthly support to those UK people who are prepared to accommodate Ukrainian refugees in their homes or on their own housing. This is, of course, what we want, on the one hand, to thank and recognise those people who are helping people who are in a very difficult situation, who are forced to flee from Ukraine today and who have come to Europe millions, but on the other hand it also reduces the pressure on the country to find housing for Ukrainian war refugees and, in the same way, may also partially help to prevent the rapid rise in rent prices, especially in Tallinn. In the United Kingdom, there have been considerable problems with the implementation of this support measure. We find that because Estonia has very strong companies in the field of information technology, it is certainly possible for the Estonian state to implement a similar support measure more effectively, faster, less bureaucracy and thus help people. I am very grateful to all of you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U3	The bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U4	It's already been sent to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U5	Got it. The draft has been delivered electronically. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U6	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable people of Estonia! The Estonian Conservative People's Party has the tenth anniversary today. Congratulations! In this regard, we wish to present a gift to the people of Estonia. We are handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the VAT Act. This draft amends the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act on value added tax (VAT) in order to reduce the price shock caused by the sharp increase in energy prices for residents and businesses. The suppression of the retail price of energy contributes to the livelihood of the population and to maintaining purchasing power, keeps our companies competitive and reduces the rise in unemployment. The aim of reducing the excise duty rates of energy carriers and the VAT rate that will be taken together is to reduce the fall in purchasing power caused by the rise in energy prices for Estonian consumers and businesses and to reduce the competitiveness of companies. Tax reductions are also intended to stabilise the labour market. As a result of the high price increases, the sharp rise in prices of products and services is predicted, which reduces consumption. For companies, the surge in input prices at the same time and the decreasing sales turnover mean pressure to find savings at the expense of the labour force, in other words, to start to lay off workers. Tax reductions therefore support businesses and help to maintain jobs by stabilising both the labour market and helping all our people, who are literally struggling with these huge energy prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U8	67 envoys signed up to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have four points on the agenda. The first item is the amendment of the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The number of the bill is 546, it's a first reading. The rapporteur is Mikhail Lotman, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U10	Thank you. Yes, I do have a procedural question. Yesterday, in this Parliament, an unprecedented, I would say, precedent and massive violation of the Home and Working Rules Act, where a number of rapporteurs, who were fixed on the agenda and had to report their drafts, simply did not appear in the Riigikogu and the work of the Riigikogu proved impossible and the discussion of these points was impossible. My question is: has the Bureau discussed the situation? Because it's completely unprecedented what happened yesterday. Such a number of waitresses have never failed to appear before the Riigikogu, both ministers and members of the Riigikogu. Has the board made clear the reasons? And I specifically ask: is it known why Minister Signe Riisalo did not appear before the Riigikogu and where he was at that time? What was the real reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U11	Thank you. Indeed, yesterday, towards the end of the working day or towards the end of the day, three ministers did not come to the Riigikogu during their item on the agenda, but in addition, two of our own colleagues did not appear in the Chamber during their item on the agenda. In total, there were five items on the agenda that we could not deal with, because there was simply no rapporteur, and on this point our Rules of Procedure say that it would be impossible to deal with them. The Board of the Riigikogu has not yet gathered, the Riigikogu Board meeting is this afternoon. I would say that really, I agree that this is the unprecedented parliamentary system that took place here yesterday. It wasn't random and by accident. The Board of the Riigikogu must certainly discuss this, but I think it is a subject that should perhaps be discussed even by the Council of Elders. Mart Helme, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U12	I will essentially continue with the same question. As a board member and representative, do you have any information on whether the government is still operational and whether it is together? Or, suddenly, the government has fled to a foreign country and has already become a government in exile? What's going on? Has there been any exchange of information on this subject with the Stenbock House, the State Chancellery? Or maybe we should ask, maybe we don't have a government anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U13	I didn't have that kind of information exchange. During yesterday's sitting, there were successive reports that the Minister could not come and all, the reasons I know were not there. There was a minister, he answered questions. We also asked the Minister or the ambassadors whether all his colleagues were still alive and well, which he said was as usual. And it is probably necessary that we address this issue more thoroughly, and on the Board of the Riigikogu I would certainly like the ministers to give an explanation for all of this. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U14	Thank you. I agree with you. It is inevitable that the body of elders should meet at least immediately during the next week's work and discuss this situation. My proposal has also been passed on through you here now by the Isamaa Group, the Chair of the Riigikogu is not currently.• to convene the Assembly of Elders and discuss this situation. I understand you don't know anything about the absence of Signe Riisalo right now. But can you tell us about the member of the Riigikogu, Kristen Michal, who was in this Chamber just before the item discussion yesterday, I saw him myself, and this morning is also fully viable and operational in this Chamber? Do we know why he didn't come to report his point?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U15	Yes, as I said, on the two items on the agenda, we were dealing with a second reading, which should have been the Commission's report. And in both cases, the committee rapporteur was not in the Chamber at the time of the item, although, yes, colleagues could confirm that they had been in the House of the Riigikogu just before that. In other words, as we know, there was no major accident or obstacle that would have prevented them from coming here. We must conclude that this was an informed choice to block the work of the Riigikogu. That's right. I must say, of course, that this behaviour will ultimately be judged by the voter. The answer is no, there were no reasons. Kalle Grünthal, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U16	Thank you, Mr President. That Signe Riisalo did not appear here in the Riigikogu Hall, we found out yesterday at 21.17 or 21.47, about that period. It is also sad that another minister, Eva-Maria Liimets, who was also supposed to perform here, has no information about him at all, where he was present or what he did. To be fair and honest, of course, I congratulate the Minister, Mrs Kersna, who has come. But, well, coming didn't answer the questions he was asked. It's also like this, let's say, a partial solution. Since this behaviour of ministers has become extremely inappropriate to the Riigikogu, I have the suggestion that, if the Council of Elders is to meet, in any case, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas must be invited there to report on the reasons why the ministers of his government are ignoring the sessions of the Riigikogu and to give a precise explanation of the working and schedule of ministers at that time, so that they could not come here before the Riigikogu to perform their duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U17	Yes, I agree that the Prime Minister is ultimately responsible for the behaviour of government ministers. I add that the third minister who did not want to come to the Riigikogu was Andres Sutt. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U18	Good manager! The same thing goes on. I would like to correct the fact that the Minister for Social Protection announced that he wouldn't be here at 21,42, 40 minutes before he arrived. Yesterday it was discussed that the Russian Minister for Defence Shoigu has disappeared somewhere and our Minister for Social Protection at the same time. And now my question is now, because today we have a real defence minister waiting here at last to see if there is any data, or if our defence minister is missing. Is he gonna show up here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U19	I don't have the information to keep him from showing up, that's the right answer. I don't know where he is now or isn't, but no one has informed us that there is no minister or there isn't. Jürgen Ligi, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U20	Good young Envoy Helme! Can't we go to work now? In fact, it is not appropriate to mock words such as 'unprecedented' and so on and to hold this dialogue, to claim that you know something about the practices of the Riigikogu. The only thing that's unpredictable is the number of fools, the poor-spirited fools here, who fill the verbatim records day by day at the beginning of each sitting with nothing in which the debate is completely out of the question. Substantial discussions are made ridiculous by such lobbying. And this custom has been brought here by you. Before you it was customary that procedural tricks were done, but they were not the dominant form of Riigikogu work. So, please, let's get back to work and please fix yourselves. This is your dialogue with the opposition, isn't it? This is a form that has already crossed the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U21	Thank you. You have to take compliments where you can get them. I'm grateful they think I'm a young person. And I must say that I have two formations of Riigikogu work under my belt. I think I know some things about the work of the Riigikogu, I've been elected vice-chairman, I run the meeting. They'd have wanted to do a lot of work here last night. The work would have been wanted to be carried out on at least five items on the agenda, except that there were no three ministers and no two rapporteurs. And, of course, where in which row the fools are sitting in the Riigikogu is probably the place of discussion. We disagree on the line they're in. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U22	Thank you. The fact that some of the opposition's ambassadors implement the obstruction is in full compliance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. It is a fact that it really is an extreme tool in the work of the Riigikogu, which we should not over-exercise. But this reaction by the ministers and ambassadors of the coalition was completely disproportionate and, on the contrary, the Riigikogu ridicules the work unprecedentedly. Because in the form of massive failure by both ambassadors and ministers to carry out their duties, this is the first time in the work of the Estonian Parliament. This is a new phase of our lack of culture, and it was a completely inadequate and disproportionate response to the opposition's obstruction policy, which, I would like to emphasise once again, is in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. But the failure of ministers and ambassadors to appear here was also a violation of the law. So I'm asking the body of elders to gather as soon as possible. A separate issue that we need to discuss is that what and how it goes on, because in this form this could happen again in the future, and then Parliament's working capacity will be completely excluded. And I do not agree with the chairman of the meeting so that we can agree in any way that the voter will evaluate the violations of the law. In one year's time, the voter will evaluate the violations of the law. This is not part of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U23	Yeah. Well, I would point out that ultimately, the voter will judge. But, of course, that doesn't mean we don't react in any way here. And I agree that the law obliges the minister to come to the Riigikogu. It's actually in our Rules of Procedure, the law obliges. And, of course, speaking of precedents, the massive miscarriage of the work of the Riigikogu with procedural questions is the practice of this composition from the first part of its composition when the coalition and opposition lines were the other way round. Mart Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U24	Thank you. Here, one of the previous speakers does not know the wisdom of the people, which says that a fool is not stupid. And that's what I'd say, in some rows, they're just stupid. But I'm coming up with an extension of the theme, which is also procedural, actually. Because we see the current government going brutally across the Riigikogu, which is its employer, not only so that the ministers do not appear here, but we also remember how when the Reform Party sat in the opposition and Jüri Ratas was not able to appear in front of the Riigikogu for compelling reasons, such a wall was opened here that the roof had to rise. The Riigikogu was then so full of power and power, it was said that ministers must be present immediately and the Prime Minister has nothing more important to do than report to the Riigikogu. Now we have seen over the year that both the Prime Minister and other ministers have a great deal to do instead of coming to the Riigikogu plenary. That's one observation. The second observation is this, and it is much worse, perhaps or not less, that the government simply misses the Riigikogu. Let us give an example of the issue of additional funding for national defence. 380 million of it has not been brought to the Riigikogu to this day. The Riigikogu processes the budget. The government cannot make any money outside the Riigikogu, except for the government's reserve fund, move, allow, make uncovered purchases, make orders on its account. And now we're talking about the next, I hear, $400 million extra funding. We have no objection to the additional funding of national defence, so please do not misunderstand and again start talking about how the Kremlin henchmen do not want to strengthen national defence, the Kremlin henchmen are sitting there again in a row of fools, but the question is that this is a brutal procedure, a systematic violation of the functioning of the Estonian state at the legislative level. The Riigikogu must take a very clear position here at the board level and make it clear to the simple members of the [party] groups that form the government that they cannot support the fact that the ministers they appoint simply trample the powers of the Riigikogu's house and rules of procedure and the powers of the Riigikogu's ambassadors. I would ask that it be put on the agenda in the Bureau so that such things do not become systemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U25	I agree that there are very clear constitutional principles here that are at issue. The question of the budget is both the prerogative of the Riigikogu and the fact that ministers report to the Riigikogu is basically a matter of constitutional order. If we simply no longer have ministers in the Riigikogu, then the question is whether we have parliamentary democracy anymore. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U26	In this situation, I must stand up for my colleague Jürgen Ligi. We must realise that diversity is enriching, and we are dealing with a real relic or a dinosaur in the form of Mr Ligi. After Eiki Nestor's disappearance, he is the oldest bearer of our so-called oral or parliamentary tradition. You have to understand, a colleague must have nerves through intense work. I call for an understanding of the diversity that enriches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U27	Yeah, it wasn't procedural, but yeah. Let's try and get the procedure over with. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U28	Thank you, Mr President. My procedural question is motivated by Jürgen Ligi's speech, where he criticised the need to get to work. I do not know where Jürgen Ligi is at all and what his thinking is, because we have no dispute that yesterday's agenda was not discussed because of the ministers and ambassadors of the Reform Party. But, of course, I don't honestly feel very surprised about Jürgen, because I imagine if he meets a bear in the dark deep woods, he'll definitely think he's a nigger and he'll go out and ask for a smoke.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U29	Yeah, I didn't find a procedural question here. Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U30	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to adjust my good benchmate a little bit. Dinosaurs should not be in the Riigikogu, but as fossils somewhere in the museum and explore scientists. Apparently, Mr. Near's brain scissors and experiences here in the Riigikogu would make a very interesting study. But I actually wanted to talk about something else. I just wanted to talk about this unprecedented situation that arose yesterday, which has never been before, and which is, I would say, quite symptomatic to today's government. After all, today's Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, who refused to come here three days after Parliament's invitation, partly refused to accept the phone, did not respond to the messages or e-mails. And today we see that now even three ministers at a time, plus two other coalition ambassadors, in exactly the same way the Riigikogu ignores. This is, I should say, a direct undermining of the authority of the Riigikogu, which is by no means acceptable. And indeed, I join my good colleague, Ceder, in that it is not only enough for the Bureau to take up this topic, how the work of the Riigikogu is being torpedoed and that it is made impossible to process drafts, but it really should also become part of a much wider debate in the body of parents. In fact, I would also suggest somehow regulating such a thing that ministers are obliged to come to the Riigikogu and, without good reason, simply not to come to the Riigikogu, it should be sanctioned in any way. I can't tell you how right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U31	One way to sanction the matter has been to discredit ministers who have been unworthy of the Riigikogu. I would like to point out that Jürgen Ligi, mentioned earlier in the Riigikogu, when he was a minister, simply failed to appear at the hearing once. That's what they've practiced before, but not in this amount. Tarmo Kruusimägi is a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U32	Thank you, good vice chairman. We have, of course, left out one such human aspect. The need to perform, the ability to perform, and the ability to perform in public may not have been trained for many years. At the moment, it is as if the Minister for Social Protection is in an extremely bad light that his absence triggered such behaviour because it was taken into account. We have often done things here that are not regulated by our domestic and operating procedures. I would remind you that the Socialist representative had a meeting in this Chamber some autumn, but he just didn't come to the remote and the bill was postponed to the next week. It meant that it was looking for attention, because next week we could say again that we were going to give it in. It seems rather strange in some other place where a person refuses to go and is simply given a new chance without a deep cause. It is perhaps a good thing that they did not come here and simply mock the opposition. Well, the minister is coming, but he's just refusing to go to the remote, because our rules of procedure and home have not been regulated. I read things like one is a coincidence, two is a coincidence, three is a system. How and in what way could the Board of the Riigikogu [act]? Hanno Pevkur sent us good practices or things, but they did not contain at all the thoughts of how to deal with things where the sense of social justice senses that it has offended someone's honor and dignity or the dignity of voters, and yet we go behind this jock scheme. Do we have a few points that still talk about recurring things? I give an example of local governments: if three times a person does not appear at a municipal meeting, he or she will be automatically excluded. I'm not talking about excluding anyone now, but is there, to some extent, some kind of sanctions that call order? And don't be so upset with one of the walkie-talkers, maybe he wanted to make a little fun today, but he turned out the way he used to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U33	Well, I understand the question went in the direction of how these things come back on the agenda or when. This is certainly an issue that the Bureau must begin to discuss today, whether they will go automatically to the next week or whether the Commission will have to send them back to the Chamber. I owe you an answer right now. But it's definitely a subject, yes. Alar Laneman has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U34	Thank you, Mr President. I am forced to comment that it is quite comic when my colleague calls for us to get to work, and then, after the call, gets up and goes. It's a little comic. But this is serious. Look, we probably need to discuss this in the body of elders, because what happened yesterday should be put in context. We're dealing with a multi-crisis situation. The health crisis is not over, the refugee crisis that brings this to our society is still developing. There is a security crisis in our area, which has forced us to reconsider security plans. In this situation, it does exactly what the Kremlin would like: it disrupts the democratic functioning of the Estonian state and interferes with the functioning of the Estonian government's governance. That's what happened yesterday. And that's exactly what the Kremlin wants in his hybrid war and what General Gerassimov has described. So these ministers have either knowingly or unintentionally fulfilled General Gerassimov's hybrid war instructions. This should be discussed by the body of elders. This isn't some kind of parliamentary conflict, it's an escape from the battlefield. After all, ministers have government responsibility, and even if they do not like it, it seems emotionally difficult, they should still wear it, or they should look it in the face and tell them that this work is beyond their means. So yesterday, in fact, there was an attempt to paralyse the functioning of the state in a situation where we have a number of crises. So I have a serious request: maybe the body of elders will find a way to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U35	I agree, it was an extremely serious thing that happened yesterday. Mikhail Lotman, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to draw attention to this aspect, which has not been discussed here today. The point is that members of the government and the coalition sabotaged their own initiatives. The drafts that were not submitted to the proceedings were draft laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Does the government think that his work isn't worth even discussing here? I ask that this issue be passed on to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U37	Well, we don't have an explanation for what they think or why they did it. That's the explanation we're still looking for. But yes, the factual result is that they did not move their own drafts forward here in the Riigikogu. Whether it's a sign of surrender or a sign of surrender, a sign of self-sabotage, who can do it now [to say]. I can't answer that. Kert Kingo, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U38	Thank you! The fact that there is no information about the non-emergence of Social Protection Minister Signe Riisalo has been discussed here for a long time, but we have the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, whom we have hardly seen in this Chamber of Parliament. And yesterday, too, when it was a very important issue, the issue of cyber security, especially when we look at the current situation in the world, if he let us know why he couldn't participate. We'd like to see if he's even in office anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U39	Yes, Andres Sutt was in the Riigikogu building yesterday, but in the evening, when these items started to come, ministers made it clear that, since the Riigikogu agenda had shifted in time, they were no longer fit to come. Their schedule won't allow it. I disagree. I have also been a minister myself, and I think that there are practically no more important things in the schedule of any minister than the presentation of the Riigikogu on the board. If you are abroad, it is planned and taken into account. But if you are in Estonia, there are no more important activities than there are no very personal, I don't know, family things that could cause it. But just to say that it's a lot of time, and that's why I'm no longer fit to come to the Riigikogu, it's actually a violation of the law, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Rene Chef, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U40	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. A procedural question, yes. Still, what happened yesterday is undoubtedly an unprecedented case. In my opinion, a body of elders should be called immediately and discussed because there are serious doubts as to whether our government will be able to act. No kidding! I think that we should immediately convene the body of elders and find out what we have in the government, whether the government is capable of working, as well as how to proceed with our drafts. In fact, I do not think we should go to the agenda today until it is clear what happens next. Finally, I would, of course, like to congratulate Liina Kersna, who came yesterday and did her duties as a member of the government, so thank her for that. But I'm asking you to think about how to convene the body of elders immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U41	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U42	Yeah, definitely procedural. I look, yesterday we would have had 382 SEs in the proceedings, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken such decisions that it will be at the sitting on 23 March, and when the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 6 April 2022. This, in my opinion, is not correct at all because we know that we will meet again on 4 April. These things should be the same as the timeline. Because can we imagine how we are actually going to reduce Parliament's role if this reading is pushed somewhere on 4 April, but then it is that you see that we have already written on 6 April there. Is it possible, and to what extent, in such a case, that we are going to follow the momentum that has actually been written up by the Committee on Economic Affairs? Because the Commission also has the opportunity to meet the target groups between second and third readings, that is one day, that is not enough. But the question is, all right, is whether I have understood correctly that our working and working rules allow the Commission to change the rapporteur. I've noticed that these things have happened. The President of the Reform Party Group was in this Chamber. He should be quite competent to take up the draft and to deal with it, because the leader of the group is familiar with everything. You do not have [can] say, was he [wasn't prepared] to assume the burden of responsibility that he, as the chairman of the group, has? He was a co-rapporteur for a draft initiated by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, but in what way or what were these obstacles, why couldn't anyone come from the Economic Commission and do it? Because Priit Onion, for example, suggested that this simple Signe Riisalo presentation, which he should have spoken here, could be read by anyone in a calm manner and perhaps spend time on it, for example, 30 minutes. What were the obstacles that no replacement was found?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U43	You now have four questions in a row. First of all, the procedural decision must still be, if the rapporteur is changed, the procedural decision is the Commission's procedural decision. Secondly, if the Commission has set some dates and these dates have run over because of the inability of the procedure, I believe that the Commission will have to take new decisions. It can't be like we just change the number of the week, but we don't look at the dates. There must, in my opinion, be a Commission decision. How exactly is this going to work out, I'm sure the board will discuss it. And as for how the agenda for next week, the agenda for next week's work week, I can see here that it's like the train crash we're having right now. There are a whole bunch of procedural question marks or procedural questions about how this agenda will be completed, because we are actually going to have committee proposals for the next working week. For those that have now been cancelled yesterday, the committees do not have any new decisions. There, I can imagine, we're going to have a very serious problem ironing this whole thing out. Urmas Reitelmann, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The course of events last night clearly points to the fact that reform party ignorance has reached such an unprecedented level that people feel even like Olympus gods. Things are a little different in real life. If the employee informs the employer that I am on bedtime or that I am not bothering today, then tomorrow you will no longer have to come to work. We missed a pretty big pile of questions yesterday, we didn't discuss it and we didn't vote it through. Now, when the body of elders or the board meets, will you consider calling an emergency sitting during a sitting-free week, as one of the options for making up for this job, because the work needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U45	An additional sitting is certainly one way to clear up the work that has not been done. There is a procedure for this, there must be proposals. Our problem is that we do not have the President of the Riigikogu in the country today, who has the greatest say on these issues. So I think that we may not yet reach clear solutions or decisions today. But I am sure that at least a considerable part of the Riigikogu and I, as a member of the board, will be ready for the plenary meeting of the Riigikogu next week. And I also agree that if ministers do not want to work and do not want to quit, the Riigikogu will be able to call them back. Jack White, procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the failure of ministers to come to the legislator is a gross violation of the principle of parliamentaryism, and a number of methods have been proposed here to deal with this situation. But let us now assume that the comments or suggestions made by the body of elders and the board of directors still have no effect on the government and that the government coalition will no longer come to defend the drafts and will not submit any drafts to Parliament at all, because why they will be submitted if they are not to be defended. I will now ask the President how this country can be run and what this regime will be called if there are no drafts submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U47	Thank you. There is a period in the history of Estonia where the Riigikogu was in a state of silence and there was nothing to do; the government continued to rule. This certainly does not comply with the principles of our constitutional order today, and it certainly cannot be allowed to go like this. Mart Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U48	Thank you. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, to which you have just referred, says that Estonia is a parliamentary republic and Estonia is a principle of separation of powers. In this case, we will see how government ministers, as well as the government as a whole, once again refer to those defence-related financial allocations, which are, as if, as a result of the government's compatibility or agreement, outspoken to the public, violate the standards laid down in the Constitution, violate the spirit and idea of the parliamentary republic, violate the principle of separation of powers. In this context, I have the proposal to contact the Board of the Riigikogu in writing with the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office for assessment and legal as well as financial analysis, in order to obtain an assessment of such steps by the independent institution from these two institutions, according to the principle of separation of powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U49	Of course, this can also be done by a political group or a private person, but the Board of the Riigikogu can also be done if there is consensus in this Riigikogu's management board. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U50	Yeah. I have already pointed out here in the past month that the power of the government to place it on the agenda has somehow diminished. It is empty days and, if the enquiries made by the opposition are to be deducted from them, it has somehow gone out very clearly. And now this unprecedented evening, where there was already a massive new job, both by ministers and the chairman of the committee, among them. I would like to ask the board or body of elders to discuss this, that it is like a general matter that the drafts sent to this hall have been getting less and less [remained] lately, and now this massive new job last night. It kind of shows something. So I'd like you to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U51	Sure. Yeah, I'm sure they'll discuss it. Henn Fieldase, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The opposition ambassadors were the victim of verbal attacks by members of the coalition, both yesterday and today. We were also accused that you were responsible for not coming here. In fact, it is absolutely not true because we were willing to work. We were also prepared to work until morning, all night long, so that all these drafts could be dealt with so that they could be discussed thoroughly, asked questions, presented reports. Our obstruction was not due to the fact that in any way the work of the Riigikogu was hindered, but, on the contrary, to prevent the government from adopting the Aliens Act through its last anti-constitutional and anti-spirit measures, which has not been discussed in the Riigikogu or [of this] any kind of dialogue. Today's government took the draft of the previous government, completely turned it upside down, changed all its content and meaning, and actually placed a bomb on the sustainability of our Estonian state and nation. We tried to stop it. And now, as a result, we are accused in a very ugly and vile manner, and in addition, the government ministers refused to come before the Riigikogu to deal with other drafts, just as the coalition ambassadors who had to submit these drafts. I mean, it's, say, a soft wording, a strike. Our government is on strike today. Our coalition is on strike today, refusing to work. What kind of judgment do you make? Their strike takes place in order to impose what they managed to do to the Estonian state against the Constitutional Bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U53	My assessment, of course, as the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, i.e. as a member of the management board of the Riigikogu, as well as as as a representative of the opposition party of the Riigikogu, is that such behaviour is actually dangerous to the constitutional order of Estonia. And you cannot just look at it, it cannot become the norm that the government simply does not come before the Riigikogu if it is in the mood. This is no longer the functioning of parliamentary democracy according to the Constitution. Then we'll have another regime if it just goes like that. I imagine that there is no news for the Estonian media here at all, then we actually have a very serious crisis. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U54	Thank you, Mr President. I'd come back to the part about how we were told the ministers wouldn't come here. This message was sent by the mouth of Hanno Pevkur, who was in charge of the hearing at the time, who then announced that they could not come. In this case, I see and find that there has also been a violation of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Because § 75 provides... I don't think it's an argument that it was an announcement, let's say, by Signe Riisalo, and who didn't even report it was Mrs. Liimets, as far as I know. This section provides that announcements to Riigikogu members, Riigikogu committees, political groups shall be submitted by the President of the sitting, the text of the announcement shall be submitted in writing to the President of the sitting. The question is, I agree that it will be submitted by the President of the sitting, although the President of the sitting should be obliged to transmit these written documents to the members of the Riigikogu and to the box of draft law proceedings behind us. We would get exactly fixed that this is exactly the kind of announcement that it is not a momentary emotion by anyone that I will not just come today, but it is proof, written proof that I really cannot come. Otherwise, there will be a situation, I apologise, of course, but Mrs Riisalo informed someone somehow that she couldn't come, but there is no reason. These matters cannot be dealt with in the context of government and before the Riigikogu in this way. I have a proposal for the board. Is it possible that, in the future, if such information comes that I cannot come, the President of the sitting will make it known, but that all this text, with reasons, would also be available to all members of the Riigikogu in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U55	This paragraph does not, as I understand it, refer to such announcements. In fact, what happened here yesterday was the impossibility of the procedure, because there is no waitress on the agenda item. As you even referred to, in the case of one minister, there wasn't even an announcement, just not a person, that's all. We are not talking about this, let's say that the President of the sitting actually has this message or that he does not have the message, if the fact is that there is no waitress in the Chamber, then this announcement is not relevant, then it is still impossible for the procedure. So let alone the justifications, or whether this announcement was made in any time frame, or whether it was in any way formalised, if there is no waitress, there is no waitress and there is no procedural impossibility. We are not talking about any announcements such as those actually mentioned in § 75. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U56	Good manager! In a procedural way, it was new at work yesterday, starting with the failure of the Minister for Social Protection. I am very concerned that the government coalition has come up with an anti-constitutional bill. A year ago or [a little] more has been eliminated as a result of the revolution between the Minister of Population and the Special Committee on Population Problems, and now, a year later, the same minister to whom these tasks have been assigned should report for the first time. This reporting is a one-page, no ridiculous! Since, according to our constitution, Estonia should be a nation state, and [debate] on this issue, population problems and [other matters] that the minister had to report about yesterday, it was not possible to discuss there in the board of directors or in the body of elders whether this reflects any general line in the current government coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U57	Yeah, let's take this discussion to the meetings. Kert Kingo, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U58	Thank you! I really do have a procedure. This government has stood out, in particular, by moving between laws and by making arrangements to establish new standards. Is there any information under the direction of the Riigikogu because it seems that we members of the Riigikogu do not have this information? Is it possible that the government has again put in place a new order that, from, for example, 6:00 p.m. or 21:00 p.m., ministers, government members, will have their time off at the end of the working day and some will have a bedtime? Is it possible that such an arrangement has been made by the Riigikogu in absentia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U59	Such an arrangement has not been published at least, it is not fixed anywhere. Actually, the laws are in force. The responsibility of the minister is not fixed at the time, just as the working time of a member of the Riigikogu is not fixed at the time. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U60	I have a procedure, and I also want some things to be recorded in the record, which is just my opinion and which violates this good procedure. Obviously, we have a lot of these yokk solutions. The law says, and consequently, that when something is done that is not prohibited, it is thought to be permitted immediately. I would like to draw attention to one of our vice-chairmen who said yesterday that if we have a agenda and all this is [there is] when the Bureau has got the agenda together, then good work will be done. It's like a criterion. I would remind you that here on one of his decisions, which was, we still came to court. Perhaps several times. The third time was here where the minister wanted to come to one of the ministers today, too, to present why he would not get his own arbitrary interpretation tomorrow. I would draw attention to this direct threat of democracy when we see that 382 SE has been written that the third reading is on 6 April, but we know that the majority of the Commission can make a decision. Is it possible for the Board of the Riigikogu to rely on the prior first will to take a two-week gap between second and third readings so that the target groups do not feel that they are in some way injured by this law? If the Commission decides that we will do second reading on 4 April and second reading on 6 April, then I would like to ask you to record this concern, because otherwise the target groups have simply been left out of the decision [of]? As a general rule, it shows me one of those good or bad management textbooks thing that causes the problem first in this Chamber, then make it a very big problem and then offer yourself a good solution. But the question is what I ask you to record: no matter what may have happened to people, has anyone involved made an explanation to the Riigikogu's board today that could not have come for this reason, for the second or third reason? Because we still have to consider that if the explanations have not come up for today, the picture has not come up yet, then we have to read it as deliberate bad behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U61	First of all, I would point out that we do not have a protocol, but we have a verbatim in this Chamber. The protocol is in the Commission. Secondly, my understanding of the Rules of Procedure is that if we have dropped out of the agenda because of the inability of the procedure, he must go back to the Commission again and have new procedural decisions. I don't think we can auto-slap them anywhere on the board. But I imagine that there is a need to seek legal advice on this issue first, and maybe there's some kind of argument that we're going to have there. And the third thing is, I don't think that the board or one board member, or the whole hall, is always legally correct. It may still be that someone interprets something of good will or bad will in a way that does not really comply with the law. The way in which we will continue to put together the next agenda is not entirely discretionary for the Bureau. We still have rules of procedure ahead of us, which tells us how we behave in certain situations. I'm sure that's what we're going to discuss today. [[Tarmo Kruusimäe is asking for the floor.]] There hasn't been any information received from me. The announcements were such that you couldn't come yesterday, that's all. No other explanation, no information, no explanation has come to me. Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U62	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. There is no doubt that this was an obstacle to the work of the Riigikogu organised by the government, which, in fact, by its nature, I cannot say whether legislation is criminal. I'm sure it's criminal in nature. You mentioned that, in future, the committees will have to discuss the procedure for these missed drafts and take decisions. Indeed, that is the way it has to be. But I received an e-mail from the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu this morning about the agenda of today's Foreign Affairs Committee, and there is the same draft that was to be submitted to us yesterday by Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. This is the first reading of the draft act ratifying the agreement to terminate the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation and protection of investments. But the first reading we did not have was because the Foreign Minister refused, I would say, literally maliciously coming to the Riigikogu. And now this agenda today, sent from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, led by Marko Mihkelson, member of the Coalition Party, the Reform Party. Today's agenda has been sent, with the same draft, but not the procedure for its first reading and sending it to the Chamber, but the procedure for its second reading and the decision-making process. So it follows, as if the coalition and the government had come to the conclusion that even though they did not want to come to the Riigikogu, it is as if the first reading has already been done and now we are already processing the second reading. I cannot tell you how it is in the other committees, whether it is the same situation that simply the law of our home and working arrangements is being passed, and the coalition thinks that all these drafts have been approved, all the dozens and dozens of amendments that they have made or anyone else, without any discussion, are all the first readings, and here I see that some other readings have also been made. This is a flagrant violation of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If the committees that are led by members of coalition parties so brutally violate it, it is certainly something that must not only be highlighted by the Bureau, but also immediately prevent and prevent them from breaking such laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U63	I assume that the Commission's agenda has simply remained unchanged because, at first reading, this draft had to have passed before yesterday in the Commission, and now presumably if it had passed the first reading yesterday in the large Chamber, the Commission would have been able to move forward with the preparation of the second reading in the Commission. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] There's still a mistake in there, it can't be done. That is where the Commission has to reform its work process. If you haven't been through the hall, you can't go back to reading. Obviously, someone's missed something in there. That is simply not what our Rules of Procedure allow. Urmas Reitelmann, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to draw attention to one of the growing tendencies among colleagues in the Riigikogu Chamber, especially among the Members of the Reform Party. In fact, the representatives of the Reform Party treat their colleagues, mostly their colleagues in the opposition, with quite juicy insults on the spot. In some cases, this may be explained by medical problems, but there are also insults from people who have no obvious symptoms. Well, there's probably no cultural layer either, and then they're going to explode. However, in the Riigikogu before the war, there was such a possibility that, if they became regular, with the help of a police officer, these Riigikogu ambassadors were simply removed from the hall. Jaak White can definitely complement you. I don't know if they got some kind of gate ban for a while. But now, coming back to the present day, do we have any levers to put the reform parties who are inadequately or rudely acting in any way in order?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U65	You can still call order, the President can be called to order, and colleagues can be called to order. I would be careful, however, with the wishes to address the police here, because I am afraid that in our political situation today, the opposition will be banned. Let's not go this way. A member of the Riigikogu must still be able to be in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and if he wants to get drunk in front of the whole world, then who can be banned. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U66	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to touch on this subject, which has been discussed procedurally little in this Chamber today. The question is that there were no members of the Reform Party who had to present this bill here yesterday in the Chamber. Paragraph 73 of our Rules of Procedure states nicely that this is the impossibility of discussing the agenda, just as Hanno Pevkur served it to us. And its first paragraph states nicely that the President of the sitting will not open the discussion of the agenda if the documents on which the agenda item is discussed have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu in time or if the rapporteur is not present for discussion of the agenda item. The first foundation obviously falls away now and we can only rely on the absence of a waitress. What are the codes of conduct for the future? This is explained by the second paragraph, which says that in this case the debate will be postponed to the next working week. So in this case, April. My question, however, is as follows. As we know, we also have the deadlines set by the Commission for this draft to pass the first reading or the second reading in the Chamber. These deadlines are very important for us and very important for us. If there is now such a situation that this draft cannot be dealt with in relation to the time limit which the Commission has defined that [the draft] must have been read in the Chamber, then what happens next? Will this draft fall outside the procedure or will there be a temporary procedural infringement? What happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U67	Yeah, thanks! I'm gonna disagree. I think we've been discussing a lot of procedure today. But we need to talk about two deadlines. The first is the time to send it to the first reading. The rules of procedure say that within seven working weeks, you have to come to the first reading room and you can't get over it or around it. Now, I understand that you referred to the fact that, when the Commission has decided that the second reading on that date and when the second reading is completed, the third reading on that date, when that second reading was not made on that date, and the second reading runs on the date of the third reading, I understand that the Commission will have to take new procedural decisions. The fact that it will go automatically to the next working week is one thing, but the date of the third reading, who are rapporteurs and so on, and so on, is probably to be discussed again by the Commission. This depends on how the Commission has set [dates]. If these dates do not run into piles, then there is no need, unless the rapporteurs need to be changed at second reading, then there is no need. But I think there are certainly situations where the Commission needs to re-examine the procedural procedures. Ülle Rajasalu, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U68	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. We started today's session with a draft amendment to the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia, which has suddenly become an hour-long processing of the procedures of the EKRE Group and the Isamaa Group. I haven't heard a lot of procedural questions here, but I've just heard a speech meeting between you two. Actually, it shouldn't be like that. Why don't we just finish this and continue our trial? I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U69	Yeah, thanks! I guess he is. The subject is very important, which is why the ambassadors have a number of concerns and also procedural questions. I have to say that you have not sat here in the entire composition, but here, while the Reform Party was in opposition, it has taken two hours of procedure. The procedures have to be done. Kert Kingo, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U70	Thank you! In 2014, good practice was adopted here by the current Prime Minister and the President of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, who personally initiated a member of the Riigikogu. I have the question whether this good practice is also a real document that should be based on, or whether it has simply been a pre-election slogan of the Reform Party, because it seems that the great advice of its initiator and [the party] chairman has not reached them here, or that it applies selectively. I have the question: is this still a document that should be followed, or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U71	In addition to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu also has documents to guide the work. One is the same good practice, the other is good lawmaking practice. We actually use them as a guideline in our daily work, but the compulsion of those who say now is not the same as that of the Rules of Procedure. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U72	When we started to endorse this week's agenda, it was precisely these two ministers, Signe Riisalo and Kalle Laaneti, that had a debate on the processing of a thorough review. Who remember, [knowing that was discussed], when to do this and how it should be. And now yesterday, three-quarters of an hour before his performance, the annual report, Signe Riisalo said he wasn't going to come here. Could the Management Board discuss that the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act does not stipulate when the Minister must declare that he is not coming before the Riigikogu and [must] state the reasons? My proposal is that there should be some way of laying down this and imposing sanctions. How is it possible that the minister does not appear before the Riigikogu? In this case, it was a massive act of this kind. Proposal: this could be discussed in order to perhaps complement home and work arrangements with some of these points.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U73	I would say that, first of all, there is a question of political culture and, second of all, there is a sanction. The Riigikogu may release a minister who takes an unworthy view of the Riigikogu. And these reasonings, in fact, if we had a functioning fourth power, would require the public of ministers. Somehow I don't think there's gonna be a scandal. However, we have had proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure during its membership, a whole series of amendments have been gathered and discussed by the body of elders, but there is no political will to open or amend the Rules of Procedure now. Mart Helme, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U74	Unfortunately, Mr Rajasalu left, but I wanted to say that his speech shows that the members of the Reform Party regrettably simply refuse to understand that we are dealing with a crisis in essence, and it could even be said that the constitutional crisis caused by the behaviour of the ministers of their government and the passing and passing of the Riigikogu in their government. This is extremely regrettable and it is, I would say, extremely dangerous. This shows that, in a crisis situation, this government does not intend to use the whole process of national governance and debate and agreement, but is essentially going to shut down other constitutional institutions and govern only according to the discretion and decision-making of the Prime Minister and his party associates. My question is therefore as follows: should I not, in addition to what I have proposed in my previous speech to address the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General, address the judicial institutions here too and appeal that the Head of Government and the Government, as a collective body, be judged by other methods?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U75	I am not legally educated to say what this basis may be, but I certainly agree with the political assessment that this is an extremely dangerous precedent for constitutional order. Light Everaus, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U76	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! How have you understood your duties on the Board of the Riigikogu, as Vice-Chairman, in all aspects, including the chairing of the sitting? Do you perform these functions impartially, or do you think they are possible biased?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U77	I consider it my first task to stand up for the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, to stand up for the dignity of the Riigikogu, to stand up for the principles of the constitutional order of Estonia. And it was badly violated here yesterday. And I think that it is very important that we address it here today. I think that it is an extremely serious concern, a worrying moment, that almost no one but two parties in the Riigikogu is interested in it. Henn Fieldace, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U78	Thank you. We have been discussing this here for over an hour, I would say, a constitutional crisis caused by the deliberate action of the government when the work of the Riigikogu is blocked and obstructed in group. In this respect, I am surprised by the speeches made by some coalition ambassadors and by everything we've gotten on our necks in this hallway, how they're trying to reduce it and undo it and blame it on us instead. But I agree with my colleague Mart Helme, who said just a moment ago that because there is a constitutional crisis created by the government, where the government refuses to cooperate with the parliament, it should immediately refer to the Supreme Court or other institutions according to the law, because it is undermining our parliamentary democracy and the foundations of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U79	Yeah, well, that right of appeal is, I suppose, also a group. Kalle Grünthal, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U80	Thank you, Mr President. In today's very long sequence of procedural questions, I'm trying to look at this picture a little bit bigger. First of all, I would like to come to the speech by our former President, Kersti Kaljulaid, which he said in this very Chamber: the Riigikogu is becoming a rubber stamp, because he has always given his decision-making power to the Government of the Republic. And when the President says it, I think there's no point in doubting it. Go on, let's look at this process. What has the Government of the Republic done at this moment? He has made arrangements to impose such restrictions, orders that do not permit such activities, which should fall within the competence of the Riigikogu. And when the people protest that it is not fair, it cannot be done like this, it is a very laconic answer: go to court and then we'll see what happens next. Knowing how long the trials are dragging down in the current situation, as we, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, also filed a complaint to the Tallinn Administrative Court, which went in in September and has not even reached the preliminary hearing so far, only a single procedural act has been carried out, well, practically getting filled for the eighth month, which shows that we are not getting any help from legal proceedings either. And that, in fact, is the Government of the Republic, I mean the governments of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, has imposed and created a condition that their decisions take precedence and cannot be challenged. The fact that yesterday the Riigikogu did not come to this Riigikogu to report is another attempt and a test to see if it can survive the situation that ministers can ignore the Riigikogu by not showing up. In essence, this is an illegal takeover of the constitutional order by the government, which was at an experimental stage yesterday. I see, say, this whole process growing. At the moment, there is a situation where the Constitution no longer works for those institutions that have been put in place. Yesterday was an absolute attempt to nullify even more the decision-making power of the Riigikogu, its activities and lower it as much as possible so that only one power institution would remain in the government of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. Do I have this vision that is so-called utopian inclined, or are there any signs that indicate that these processes will take place in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U81	Thank you. Of course, there was no procedural question here, it is a question of assessment. But, yes, I can't argue with that assessment largely for my part. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U82	Yeah, thanks! I'm going to introduce the content of the procedural question with such a little thing. Dear fellow workers, who have also done procedural work here! Yesterday it was the case that five rapporteurs were absent from the office of three ministers and two members of the Riigikogu, four out of five being the people of the Reform Party. Maybe the Reform Party has some kind of knowledge of what happened. [But I] don't have an envoy. People are asking me, what's going on in there? And now it's my question. Is it possible to invite the Chairman of the Reform Party's Group to give an overview of this situation under the direction of the Riigikogu? Because, well, it is also one of his duties, or let's say, the sweet or non-sweet side of this power is that there is also a responsibility, that is, he is responsible for the work of the group. Does our Rules of Procedure give the Bureau such an opportunity, or can the Board of Directors convene an extraordinary body of elders? Because now this situation is still the case, where some people interpret it in the same way, requires answers. And we actually have a group chairman who should give us clear answers. Maybe there's a human cause, maybe there's some kind of pandemic we don't know. But why do we have to assume if there is actually a group chair? Or will our Rules of Procedure remove it, say, from the Chairman of the Group of the Obligation to reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U83	Yeah. Well, first of all, I ended up here at the remote at 9:30 in the morning and went home to sleep and then came back here and started running the meeting. I haven't had any meetings or conversations with reform parties in the meantime, unlike the ambassadors who probably come here to talk during the hearing. I don't have any input from them. And I would add that the Reform Party is represented on the Board of the Riigikogu with Hanno Pevkur. We can, of course, always ask the Chairman of the Group for more, but I think we can get as much information as we can from Hanno Pevkur. And the body of elders will surely be convened. This, I think, is probably the best format for discussing and resolving the problem, because there will be all the political groups of the Riigikogu represented there. And it is by its very nature a less legal, more political problem. And I say, of course, that those people who write to you, to me or to any of us really need to be directed, with these questions, primarily to ministers and members of the Riigikogu who did not show up. We can't answer for them what happened then. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U84	I'll go on from there. With these morning hours, people have also approached me that maybe it's just the ministers sleeping. We here speculate on the constitutional crisis and everything else. My question is whether the board has information that maybe at such an extraordinary time, ministers or the government have been given such informal arrangements that they must be kept and they must go to bed at 10:00. Maybe that's what this is about. Is there any such information?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U85	No, we have no such information that such orders have been given. Belletristic descriptions in court media, on the contrary, talk about how ministers do not sleep at all, but work all the time. Thank you. There are no more procedural questions. I think this was a necessary debate, despite the fact that the length of this debate did not everyone like. We can go to our agenda, and before the procedure, Mikhail Lotman's report was dropped. I mean, it wasn't the end of it, it wasn't the beginning. Please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U86	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs concerning the draft amendment to the creation of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia. Its contents are simple. Following the suspension of the mandate of Erki Savisaare, on 7 February this year the Economic Commission decided or proposed the appointment of Mikhail Korb, a member of the Estonian delegation to the Baltic Assembly. In general, it is a purely technical matter, the political groups have the right to name the people of their delegation, and usually the committees take it automatically. It is unusual here, however, that there are two committees and three sittings in this case. The point is that this was dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 8 March and the members of the committee had some reservations about the candidacy of Mikhail Korb. Member of the Commission Indrek Saar suggested that the Centre Party should once again consider whether Mikhail Korb is the right candidate. That is the decision that we have taken in consensus. We asked the Centre Party, and the Centre Party announced that Mikhail Korb was precisely a very suitable candidate. On 14 March, the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously adopted the decision to change this delegation as it was requested to replace Erki Savisaar by Mikhail Korb. It was adopted by consensus and I was appointed representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U87	Thank you. Now there are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As a result of this explanatory memorandum, the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia has been formed as a consultative and coordinating institution for discussing issues and projects of common interest. Since you are here as a rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs and given your excitement, which is undoubtedly very high, it would be very interesting to find out what these recent projects and the issues that this interparliamentary assembly has taken to debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U89	Thank you. Dear colleague, I thank you for your compliment on my erudition. I'm trying my best. However, unfortunately, we did not discuss this issue at these meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U90	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U91	Good manager! Dear waitress, It was only yesterday when it was discussed here that one of these decisions we had failed, and Mr Oudekki Loone would instead be sent to space. But now the esteemed waitress is coming, reporting about the same situation. The Commission has taken the same view, and now it is reporting it. And I ask whether this was discussed in the Commission, that if we are to go back to such a slippery path, because my colleague Korb is probably right now, I don't see him in Dubai, and now we are going to appoint him to such a respected delegation, then we have to start changing it soon, because he is going to have court and then he is not going to be sent to space, but there are other things that are possible. There are more dignified people here, Mr Kravtšenko has arrived here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U92	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U93	Thank you. Dear colleague, I must admit that I fully share your sentiment, your feelings. But if the Committee on Foreign Affairs had not confirmed him, it would mean distrust for the entire Riigikogu group. And we decided that we wouldn't go that way. But yes, I could send it to space.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U94	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I went to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on a so-called carpet when I was appointed a member of the ENPA delegation. Did Mr Korb also invite the Commission? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U96	Thank you! I remember what they called you on the carpet. And that was the Commission's decision. But in this case, a second decision was made. We invited the entire group to the carpet [and asked] if you are sure that this is the best possible [candidate]? The group probably gathered, discussed at length and in depth, and decided that there was no better candidate. I mean, this is my speculation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U97	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, in response to Urmas Reitelmann's question: Mikhail Korb went to the carpet on this subject on a virtual carpet, according to my memory, this session took place virtually that time. He confirmed that, in his view and despite all the doubts that some members of the Commission had raised, he could represent the Republic of Estonia there. But I would like to ask, in the interests of the protocol, that you, as rapporteur for the Commission, say who voted and how this decision was taken by the Commission. By name, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U99	I will read the decision: to propose to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary and to hold a final vote on 24 March 2022, consensus, Ruuben Kaalep, Mikhail Lotman, Marko Mihkelson, Anneli Ott, Henn Põlluaas, Valdo Randpere, Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U100	Henn Põllaasa is a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U101	Yeah, I'd like to argue clearly right now. Indrek Saar, Henn Põlluaas and Reuben Kaalep voted against Mikhail Korb being appointed to the Baltic Assembly. If the opposite is stated, this protocol does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U102	Thank you. The protocol corresponds to reality. As I said, it was discussed in two sessions. What you are talking about is the session of 8 March, and it has indeed been said here that by Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Eerik-Niles Kross, Marko Mihkelson, Anneli Ott, Valdo Randpere and Mailis Reps, against Reuben Kaalep, Henn Põljaas and Indrek Saar, impartial Priit Sibul, who replaced me, and Raivo Tamm. But on 14 March this decision was taken in consensus: by Reuben Kaalep, Mikhail Lotman, Marko Mihkelson, Anneli Ott, Henn Põlluaas, Valdo Randpere and Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U103	Rene Chef. I'm sorry! It's Henn Põllamas first. It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U104	Thank you. I'd still like some clarification. We have not voted in favour of his candidacy. Now, if you're going to read some sort of protocol, it's probably about sending in the big hall. There's some kind of mistake in there right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U105	Yeah. I can only read what it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U106	So what's the decision they voted for on 14th?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U107	It says here that it was a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U108	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U109	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, Since I am not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I ask whether you had a debate on a possible next candidate who could come after Mikhail Korb. If you believe in the press, which can rarely be done, the Chancellor of Justice is now considering coming to the Riigikogu to take away the immunity of the ambassador from Mikhail Korb. And I assume that maybe you also had a plan B under discussion, which the Centre Party will next propose, so that we can get used to the idea that we are going to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U110	Thank you. Yeah, we know that, and that's why we didn't want to take that decision the first time. We sent the ball to the Central Party. If they think it's not an obstacle, fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U111	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will now look at this issue in a slightly broader context. As we know, the main objective of foreign and security policy during the first period of independence was simple and, in fact, similar to that of Estonia today, it was to defend independence. At the time, a strong Baltic Union was considered to be the main means of realising this goal. Initially, our leaders hoped to form this between Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Poland. But then it turned out that there were such strong contradictions between Poland and Lithuania that it would not work out, and Finland sought an approach to the Scandinavian countries. That is why this alliance was formed between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but unfortunately it did not prove to be particularly effective due to the opposition of the Soviet Union. I ask: how do you appreciate the cooperation of the current Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments and how would this be affected by the appointment of a colleague, Korb, as a member of the delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U113	Thank you. I thank you for this historical review and I must say that I fully share this idea. I am, let's say, very much since 1991 that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania should work more closely together, and thanks to Mr Putin's activity, this can now work. So in this sense, this Baltic Assembly, which was not in clinical death, but rather in a comaal state, breathed and the heart worked, but especially important decisions were not taken, it becomes more active. Is the honourable colleague Mikhail Korb suitable? I'm not gonna say it, but maybe you understand my body language. And that wasn't the problem we discussed. In general, I fully share this [position], and no one wants to send it to space after a month, an apology. Well, there's no discussion, we can't, we don't have the authority to send him somewhere else instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U114	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U115	Thank you. We checked the protocol in the meantime, and the consensus was, as I said, just to send it to this big room for discussion, not for the candidate. But what I would like to ask is that we know that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are absolutely unanimous, we have condemned and strongly opposed the Russian military aggression in Ukraine. We do not have the slightest inconsistency in this respect or in these concepts. But Mikhail Korb did not sign when we adopted a statement in support of Ukraine on 23 February. He didn't vote for it. Yes, the next [on occasion] voted in favour, but then, apparently, the public was under a great deal of pressure from the delegates of the Centre Party. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you think this will affect our position and the Baltic Assembly...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U116	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U117	... if such persons represent Estonia there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U118	Thank you. I think it was the last sentence. I don't think that's a very successful choice. On the other hand, we see Mr Korb's activity in this Chamber, it is not very great, and that is why I suspect that he is also more of a representative of the Central Party in the Baltic Assembly, who is very vague and is not going to promote his convictions very actively. Besides, he didn't sign, but that's what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U119	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U120	Thank you. Mikhail Korb has probably become familiar with the public most because he has made controversial NATO comments and has been such, say, flickering, mildly expressed on the subject of Ukraine. There is no doubt that our neighbours will also know what kind of man with a renome will represent Estonia in the Baltic Assembly. I have the exact same question as Henn in the Field. Otherwise, we are so concerned about what the elephant thinks of us, perhaps what the neighbors think of us, and whether it damages our reputation and so on. But now, especially under the conditions of the Ukrainian war, it suddenly doesn't matter. Plus, of course, the integrity of the ambassador is likely to have been removed from him soon and criminal proceedings will be launched. Wouldn't it make sense to withdraw or interrupt the bill now and come back with a new candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Whether we interrupt this bill is up to you. I can't say here on the remote that I'm sorry, I read what we decided in the committee, but actually I want to interrupt it. Even if I really wanted to do this, it wouldn't be in my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U122	I shall state procedurally that this is a one-reading draft; we will be able to vote either in favour or against it today after this debate and either it will become a law or it will not. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Although some of this was touched on here, was there a debate within the Commission on what this candidate could mean as a symbol for both the Riigikogu, say, reputation and our cooperation with our good neighbours?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U124	I understand this isn't the format, but I'd still like you to be more specific. What's the symbol, Mr. Korb? If the President authorises.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U125	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Was the Commission also arguing for the nomination of the candidate, for example, which personal characteristics were based on or from an academic background? What were the criteria, why is this candidate the most appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U127	Of course, this was not discussed in the Commission, and it is not the Commission's competence. The Commission does not discuss persons. The Centre Party submitted this candidate to the Commission. We asked, the Commission asked the Centre Party to take some more time to think about whether they had a better candidate. The Centre Party found that Mr Korb is a suitable candidate in every way, and we cannot argue about that. But maybe this is really the best candidate for the Centre Party. But if we were talking about symbols, Mr Laneman, I think Mr Korb symbolizes the part of the Riigikogu that is silent. There's something about meat and fish in Russian, but I'm not gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U128	On this item, each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question, so I cannot give the floor to Urmas Reitelmann. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Mikhail Lotman! We can go to the negotiations. The request for negotiations has been made by Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I don't want to be on the remote at all right now, I'm not comfortable, I don't think many of you are comfortable. But this arrogance and lack of social perception, which the coalition is showing once again with this decision, simply forces me to come here and protest against it, so that people do not think that the Riigikogu is a completely hopeless case, and no one here understands the signals that this may at first glance be a routine decision, especially in today's context, actually sends to society and not only to Estonian society, but unfortunately also in an international context. Let us remind you that today's government coalition came about largely because of one trigger. This trigger was criminal suspicion of massive corruption, which was submitted to the Central Party, in particular personally to the Secretary-General of the Centre Party, at the time to Mikhail Korb. The cost of having this coalition was that Mikhail Korb resigned bitterly. At that time, it was understood that it was not possible to form a government in which the Secretary-General of one of the parties to the Government Union has received fresh criminal suspicion. It is as if it has been forgotten in a year, despite all the declarations that we heard from the coalition's founders at the time, how political corruption has no place in Estonian society, they are doing everything in order to rule out, in practice and in legislation, or to try to rule out, as far as possible, such cases. And now we're here after the DA's office has come to the point that he's proposed to take the immunity from Mikhail Korb in order to file a criminal charge against him. In other words, suspicion has reached the stage that the prosecutor's office is convinced that there is a reason to prosecute him and we call him an international delegation. Not only must politics be honest, but it must also look honest, and politicians must be the first to understand that it has to be fair. How should [this] be understood by an Estonian person who has read the headlines in the paper that relate to a corruption case, unfortunately also involving Mikhail Korb in one way or another? Yes, he has not been convicted, but he is part of this suspicion of corruption and will also be charged if the integrity of the ambassador is removed, as we have heard. And the Riigikogu decides to appoint him to an international delegation! In a situation where we have all talked here about how important cooperation between the Baltic States is today precisely because it is a trio that does not need to explain to each other what our sense of how and with what means our eastern neighbour is prepared to set his own goals. Unfortunately, the reputation of the Riigikogu, the belief in how the rulers can appreciate their own mirror image, and unfortunately, the international reputation of our country, not only of the Riigikogu, but of our country, will also suffer. There was already a question of how our Baltic colleagues should feel when there is a person in our delegation who has been charged with a criminal charge, who has probably just been taken away by the time the next meetings are held, and is already [removal] an ambassador. And in addition, in today's world, all the Baltic colleagues who Google will reach all the points of view of Mikhail Korb's statement on the aggression in Ukraine or at times not taking a stand, up to the point where he gave up his ministry in the first government of Jüri Ratas. I am not going to assess whether this was fair at the time, because it was, of course, accompanied by a significant information operation by competitors, but it was the position and price of this coalition that, if such doubts arise, it would not be possible for a person to be a member of the Government of the Republic. I'm gonna have to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U130	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U131	Thank you. Well, there is no need, least at this point in time, we need to put our Baltic colleagues in an awkward position and actually make them responsible for this. Mikhail Lotman, a colleague of whom I respect very much, as a waitress, a bit of a messy protocol, but that's a small thing. But one thing I absolutely disagree with with Mikhail, [is] that the Baltic Assembly was, until Putin's last aggression on 24 February this year, essentially clinical or, the point was then, brain death. That is absolutely not true. When you remember 2018 when the Baltic States celebrated Baltic cooperation was impeccable. Where we weren't all out there! At the London Book Fair we were together, we made the same Baltic Assembly decision in a very short time during this cooperation. Baltic cooperation has been very good in recent years. Just because you have not been specifically exposed to it in your own areas does not mean that there has not been one in other areas. And, of course, as far as our understanding of security space is concerned, this understanding has always been good even at a time when there has perhaps not been such an urgent need for this day-to-day cooperation. So I ask that this does not sound in any way from the Riigikogu Hall, that the cooperation that has been carried out so far is somehow of little value to us. Finally, I would like to ask you, colleagues, that we do not put ourselves and our people and our allies in further trouble now if we had any reason to avoid it and concentrate our energy on winning Ukraine, to overcome the threat that is actually attacking and threatening the fundamental values of our country in an increasingly harsh way. So the Social Democrats are calling on you to vote against this draft decision, and so, of course, the Social Democrats are acting themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U132	Mikhail Lotman, the line, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U133	Thank you. I thank Indrek Saart for this clarification. But just in case, I did not mean at all bad cooperation between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. I was only talking about the fact that the Baltic Assembly has not been active enough, and it is not just my opinion, so did several Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues with whom I have spoken. Perhaps I expressed myself overly resolutely, I ask for an apology for this, but my main point was that the Baltic Assembly has great potential and that potential needs to be used more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U134	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U135	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Two subjects. Two things, actually. One is the wider cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic States, and the other is personality. Let's start with more important, it's Baltic cooperation. I was Head of the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as was the title at the time when we started developing cooperation formats between all the Baltic countries. This concerned regular trilogue meetings of both parliaments and prime ministers and other ministers, and in this connection there were frequent visits to Riga and Vilnius and, of course, delegations from these countries also in Tallinn. And I'm glad that all the formats that were developed at the time stayed and functioned to this day. Have they been sufficient for their fertility? Always gets better. What was ideological at the time, how do you say, the spring that spurred us pushed us to launch these formats? This was an experience before World War II when cooperation between the Baltic states limped in two legs. In particular, the problems with Lithuania, as Lithuania-Poland's relations were very poor on the Vilnius issue. And at the beginning of the 1990s there was a very clear conviction in all three capitals that the mistakes that were in the period before World War II must not be repeated and cooperation must be multi-level, regular and fruitful. Of course, those trends that have subsequently materialised were also put in place at that time. I mean integration towards the west. Now, experience has also shown that the functioning of things always depends on personality. The fact that people's views on key issues are unanimous, how quickly and easily consensus, compromises can be found, is critical. We cannot forget that we are dealing with three very different countries. I know both countries pretty well. To the Lithuanians, I always say in jokes that I had the honour of occupying you in the ranks of the Soviet army. I was in Klaipeda and Vilnius. The city of Vilnius has been very familiar since then. There have been other long-term and very pleasant links with Latvia. So I can say that I know these countries quite well, and I can say that the internal policies of all countries are very different. The parties, the problems of the nodule are partly overlapping, but some are also very different. It is therefore not so self-evident that MEPs from three countries get together and are immediately born, like joint resolutions, joint decisions. Often there is a great deal of lance breaking, and that is normal and logical. But if there is a problem with chemistry between people or when there is mistrust, and over time there have been people in different delegations in different countries who have also been whispered by their own delegation that be careful with this person, his views are such or similar. This, of course, hinders cooperation. And just from that point of view... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U136	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U137	It is from this point of view that this personality issue has now also arisen. We cannot forget that in 2016, Mikhail Korb did not support the resolution adopted on the anniversary of the June deportation. Consequently, one of the greatest historical traumas of the Estonian people is not understandable to him. And that gives rise to question marks because our Latvian and Lithuanian partner nations, countries, have similar traumas. He did not support Estonia's membership of NATO in 2017. Again, the question! But especially in the current situation, we do not have very many choices, who are our allies and who we rely on and who support us and who we support. And now, in the context of the Ukrainian war, he did not sign our first statement by the Riigikogu. We can be sure that this data will reach our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues in the Baltic Assembly and that it will whisper among themselves that it is very strange that such a person is in the Estonian delegation, who does not share our historical traumas and our foreign policy convictions and trends. Plus, we can't forget that he's about to lose his immunity, he's the key person, Porto Franco, but maybe more generally, in some other subject matter, judicial decisions, in court proceedings. We cannot vote in favour of assigning such a person to the Baltic Assembly. I have nothing against Mikhail personally. Her father, too, when Valeri Korb was a member of the Riigikogu in the previous composition, I thought we had quite a pleasant chemistry. But politics is politics. As the Russian army says, služba ne družba, or service, is not friendship. And when the service dictates certain pragmatic decisions and approaches, it must be based on them. Therefore, once again, regrettably, we cannot support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U138	On behalf of the central fraction, Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay tribute in this sense that people have been elected to this hall, who have received a mandate from the people to serve the country for four years through this hall or this hall. Neither this hall nor the Estonian press are judges in Estonia. In Estonia, however, the court decides whether the person is guilty or not. Mr Korb has made it very clear that he can defend his rights, that he will come to this Chamber and ask to be removed from his immunity to prove that he is not guilty. Whether he is guilty or not, this hall does not decide, it is decided by the court in Estonia. Remember that! Now the second thing that concerns these statements. Come on, come on, come on! Mr Korb has voted in favour of all the issues that have been in this Chamber since the conflict between Ukraine and Russia [an outbreak]. I could read that, for example, Mr. Ceder, Mr. Chef and some others were not 23. [February] in the hall and didn't vote, but I don't blame it on them, because I know these people signed and started [the application]. But we don't call these people back from anywhere. You should be ashamed of yourself! Mr Korb is the right person to represent us because he is a full member of the Riigikogu, just like all of you in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U140	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 546. Let's start preparing it. Mr. Chef, would you like a recliner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U141	I wish to take a break ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U142	Would you like to take a break? Okay, then it's intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. This means that we are going to the vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, draft 546. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U144	With the result of 34 votes in favour and 24, the decision has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, before you leave the room, I would like your attention. We have been asked to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We need to vote this through. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U145	Thank you. I'm asking for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U146	Okay, then I'll take a break and we'll come back to it. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U147	Ladies and gentlemen, We need to decide on an extension of today's sitting. I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U148	The proposal is supported by 42 members of the Riigikogu, against 13. We'll work till 2:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U149	Let us move on to today's second item. This is the second reading of the draft law 522 on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Siret Kotka!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U150	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed between the first and second readings on 14 February, 15 February, 8 March, 15 March and 22 March, i.e. a total of five times. At its meeting on 15 February and 8 March, the Commission discussed the draft with stakeholders. By the deadline for submitting amendments, seven amendments to the draft were tabled by Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal and two amendments were tabled by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Steering Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, drew up a total of 12 amendments to the draft and seven came from Kalle Grünthal. Quite a number of amendments were made by the Committee on Social Affairs following a meeting with stakeholders and taking into account their proposals. The opinion was sent to the Social Affairs Committee by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Hospitals' Association, the Estonian Nurses' Association, the Estonian Patients' Association, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Drug Wholesalers' Association, the Estonian Insurance Society and the NPO People. The Association of Hospitals considers it important that the changes introduced by the development of the liability insurance system are also in other laws and that the personal contractual liability of health care is excluded for the injured person. The main message of the Doctors' Association was, above all, that it is an important draft, as it guarantees patients the possibility of receiving compensation if the patient is harmed by the provision of medical care. The draft also contributes to improving the quality of medical care. And in the opinion of the Medical Association, it is regrettable that the draft does not address the establishment of a patient insurance fund. The Estonian Patients' Association and NPO People still proposed to withdraw from the draft procedures for compensation for other medical damage and discuss reimbursement of vaccine damage separately. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People supports the changes planned by the draft, including the introduction of minimum patient safety requirements, the establishment of a liability insurance system and the creation of a simplified compensation system for the creditor. Now I'm talking about these changes. As I said at the beginning, quite a few of them were able to work together after we had meetings with the interest groups. A total of 19 amendments have been made. Amendments 1 and 2 are presented on the proposal of the Estonian Insurance Association, some points are added to the list of damages exclusions, for example, the insurer does not compensate if the health care provider has intentionally committed an act or provided a service outside the scope of the profession or even was intoxicated due to alcohol or drug consumption. What does that really mean for a patient? This means that if such a case occurs, the insurer must honestly tell the patient that it does not qualify as an insurance case, precisely because of the circumstances I have brought here, and the patient must, in such cases, seek compensation either directly to the health care provider or to the court. Amendment no. 3 has been proposed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the date will be changed. Amendments 4, 5 and 6 are technical and then have wording or numbering specification. Amendment 7 is tabled by Mr Grünthal; the proposal was to delete the word 'heavy' from the paragraph. This was not supported by the Commission. Amendment 8, clarification of the definition of "distributor." Amendment 9 has been drawn up on a proposal from Estonian pharmaceutical wholesalers and concerns the taxation of vaccine doses. Amendment 10 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal, once again it was proposed to delete the word 'heavy' from the paragraph. The Commission did not support this. Amendment 11 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal and proposed to increase the amount of vaccine insurance that could be reimbursed to EUR 300000. The Commission did not support this. Amendment 12 had been tabled by Mr Grünthal and it was proposed that, in the case of COVID vaccines, the possibility should be equal to the possibility of submitting an application for insurance afterwards, i.e. from 27 December 2020, when vaccination against COVID began. The Commission took note of this proposal in substance and supports it. It is presented in Amendment 17. Amendment 13 states that the Agency has the right to access, with the consent of the person, with the consent of the person, access to the health information system, rather than automatically. Amendment 14 has again been tabled by Mr Grünthal and the proposal was such that damage to health or death caused by the vaccination of COVID-19 patients is considered to have been demonstrated only on the basis of an epidemic crisis. The Commission did not support this proposal. Amendment 15 states that the vaccine will be reimbursed to the account indicated in the application. I would like to point out that it is not possible to pay a person in cash in any way. Amendment 16 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal, the proposal relates to Amendment 12, which I have already presented, and was taken into account in substance by the Commission in Amendment 17. Amendment 17 extends the period of application for compensation for vaccine damage. Amendment 19 has been tabled by Mr Grünthal and relates to the entry into force of the law. The Commission did not support this. After we had examined these amendments, Priit Sibul, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, proposed that the Social Affairs Committee present a proposal to deal with the harm component of COVID vaccines as a separate draft. There was also a vote on this, a majority of the Commission did not support this proposal, and that is why this draft will be available to you here today as a whole. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 March, today, to propose that the second reading be closed (this was a consensual decision) and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 13 April and that the final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U151	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U152	Good manager! Dear waitress, You're doing very well, I see that seven meetings have been held and so many stakeholders' opinions have been taken into account. There's a lot of questions, but I'll ask you one thing. Where have you taken it, or where have you taken it, that the cost of human life is 100,000? Here it is § 99 (5) and it is equal to extremely severe health impairment. A little difference is whether you're gonna get an extremely serious damage to your health, but the soul stays in, or the soul goes right out. But both have a price tag of 10,000. These calculations are much larger. When it comes to road accidents and their calculations, for example. Why 100,000 and one rod?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U153	Thank you. We did indeed address this in the Commission because one amendment by Mr Grünthal was linked to this. The answer that was given to us in the Commission was that, if you look at the case law, there was a non-material loss of EUR 2 000, which has been recognised in court. The compensation for non-material damage caused by particularly serious damage to health was EUR 100000. EUR 11000 has also been issued to compensate for non-material damage related to the victim's death. So these numbers are taken from the case law and, consequently, they are here in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U154	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You mentioned this involvement and we read in this explanatory memorandum that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Hospitals Association, the Estonian Nurses Association, the Estonian Patients Association, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Drug Wholesalers Association, the Estonian Insurance Society and the NPO People. Well, that's the right move to involve different interest groups. But this explanatory memorandum makes no sense as to what their proposals were, whether they were taken into account, or whether it was merely such a formal inclusion. True, with two amendments, you mentioned whose proposals they are. Please open it with the stakeholders involved in the [debate] and tell us what else they have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U156	So I'm going through the changes accordingly. Indeed, the Commission has discussed quite a lot with its stakeholders, we have received letters and those Members of the Commission who are in this Chamber today may say that the procedure for this draft has been intensive in the Commission. When we are now talking about amendments, Amendments 1 and 2 have come from the Social Affairs Committee after we had a meeting with the Estonian Insurance Association, who submitted these requests and requests. When we talk about proposal No 3, this is a proposal from the Health Insurance Fund, which came out very clearly from meeting them and is wanted. I'm gonna go over here. I'm gonna check it out. [[Browse papers.]] Here's the numbering. As far as amendments 8 and 9 are concerned, for example, they have actually come very clearly from the Estonian Traders' Association of Medicinal Products. They said this could be the wording to be clear. Then there are the proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency concerning Amendment 13. Okay, I'll take a look. Yeah, I think they were basic. Aa, for example, the 18th amendment tabled by the Association of Estonian Hospitals, if my memory is not deceived, and after meeting their representatives, it was introduced. I would say that these basic things, which were raised and discussed in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, were done. I think that is why there are many changes. Of course, it is also a large bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U157	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question. Remember, under the first and second amendment that we made in the Commission, which did not prove to be insurance cases, but if a person now gets damaged because the doctor either did not do the things within the scope of his profession that the patient does not know where these borders run or has done it intoxicated, then how will the patient be compensated for the damage. Because really, on the proposal of the Insurance Association, these insurance cases are not, but if the patient gets the damage, how will it be reimbursed to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U159	Thank you. Indeed, when we talk about amendments 1 and 2, when the insurance company now looks at the case and finds out that this is not an insurance case, on the basis of the previous points, it actually means that the patient is told that it is not an insurance case, and in parallel, the insurer must also say that it is now possible for the person to apply directly to the health care provider or to go to court for a benefit. Of course, there is also the Conciliation Committee on this, but I think that, when it comes to those points, such as Amendments 1 and 2, and if they are still very clearly already documented by the insurance company, I think that in these exceptional cases, the patient will have to go straight there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U160	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U161	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Well, here, much of the focus is on the insurance cases of the corona vaccine, but actually, this bill is, of course, about ensuring that all treatment errors are compensated. For a long time, the problem has been that in fact, these insurance providers are not very many, nor are they willing or interested. The question is whether, at the end of the insurance premium, this will indirectly land at the expense of the health insurance fund or not. Now that there have been negotiations with the interest groups, can you please repeat to me how we stand with the insurance providers? How many are there? After all, it helps to bring down the price if there are more. And yet, where exactly does this payout land? Will it be the health care provider's own concern where he finds it, or will they be able to park it at the health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U162	Thank you. I just want to mark that there are two parts to this big bill. One concerns liability insurance, i.e. patient insurance, and this is a very clearly private matter and there will be insurance companies. As far as vaccines and COVID vaccines are concerned, that is another matter, it is compulsory public insurance and it is actually regulated, you could say, the health insurance fund where it is handled. They're like two different approaches. For the sake of clarity, I'm just gonna say no. As far as insurance companies are concerned now and whether they exist, I actually thought that such a question might come up, so I asked for it to be examined as well, and I was given such data. If we adopt this draft today, it is mandatory, but in fact, both healthcare workers and healthcare providers are already voluntarily insured. I will simply report to you statistically that health professionals who are already voluntarily insured are, for example, members of the Medical Association. I have information that there are over 3,000, or 70% of doctors are covered by professional liability insurance. Some 83% of dental practitioners in association with more than 1000 members have similar liability insurance. The nurses and midwives said they didn't have that kind of insurance, just for the record. But when we talk about health care providers, they've volunteered for insurance. For example, in 2018, there were a total of more than 230 legal entities that had voluntarily taken out insurance. And according to family doctors, there are a dozen family doctor centres in Estonia who already have liability insurance. According to the Hospitality Association, most hospitals, of course, have not joined the liability insurance, but we hope that this law, which will enter into force in 2024, will be passed, and then it should apply to them too. But now there is insurance from major hospitals at East Tallinn Central Hospital and, as far as I know, Rakvere Hospital and Narva Hospital already have such an insurance form in force, they have actively done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U163	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, It is clear that the topics were discussed quite long and comprehensively. But when it comes to the subject of vaccination damage, it seemed kind of technical and you immediately decided that it would go separately. Or was there a substantive debate about vaccine damage? How did you come to the conclusion that it had to be separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U165	On the contrary. In the Commission, as I did in my presentation, Priit Sibul, as a member of the Commission, proposed that the vaccine part should be dealt with separately from the draft. It's not separate right now, it's in here. So we still treat it as a single complex, a package.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U166	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As we know, this bill has been launched during a period of very heated debates and struggles around vaccination, vaccination damage and all its social resonance. Now we have a new situation, we have several tens of thousands of people in the country, for whom we do not know if they have been vaccinated. But the state of Estonia has committed itself to providing medical care to them as well. I am interested in the extent to which this bill concerns this contingent or begins to touch that contingent. Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U168	Thank you. If a person who owns a personal identification number and becomes a permanent person here and goes to work here and gets the same benefits as our country offers, he will receive the other benefits that are in this bill. There's no way they're gonna be left out, they're gonna get the same ones. Yeah, that definitely assumes that a person works in this country too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U169	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This draft proposes a compensation of EUR 100000 in the event of extremely serious damage to health or death. The EKRE's proposal that this amount be EUR 300000 was disregarded and the main argument was that the case law is used. What I am saying is that we do not have a case law on the part of vaccines that is harmful. We're in a new dimension, absolutely. Secondly, I also cannot accept that the EUR 300000 paid here when one rescue worker died after the vaccine was administered is involved in the performance of his duties. No prescriptive legislation, neither administrative nor labour law, confirms this argument. However, I would ask you to agree to support damages of EUR 300000. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U171	Thank you. As regards the rescue officer's case of compensation of EUR 300000, in this rescue officer's case, the Agency, the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board assessed that it was an accident at work because a specific rescue officer went into vaccination in accordance with the employer's guidelines. Here we have had a discussion about whether or not 100,000 is enough. Most people think it's enough. The decision in this big hall is actually this. Mr Grünthal, you can put this amendment to the vote and then the big hall can decide what is right. I think, as you indicated, there are no direct precedents for COVID vaccines. However, in the case of other vaccines affected by this draft, there are actually cases of disease. But the case law [of decisions] that have come still remains in the 100,000 borders. On the basis of this legal basis, this draft has been proposed. And I think that was also why most of you did not support your proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U172	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think it would be regrettable if we did not address the area of why I proposed that the COVID Vaccine Damage Fund be separate. Although, as you rightly said, the Commission's majority did not support it. But right in several meetings of the Commission, we listened to different target groups, including NGO Still People, who told us their personal stories, and they brought about as an important aspect that, in fact, there are very serious problems in the current context in order to make these diagnoses. That was why they supported the same proposal that I tried to put forward to the Commission, but the Commission, as you said, did not support it. But I think it would also be fair for these people to present this issue, because in the Commission we dealt with it on quite a number of occasions and it would be right if we could at least go through it in this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U174	Thank you. The Commission really addressed this issue on several occasions, if my memory is not deceived, at least in two sessions. And we didn't spend ten minutes on it, we spent several hours on it. We discussed how the patient could be most protected from this role so that he could receive help and treatment on time. Now, the idea that the Members of the Commission have come is that a register-based collection of data should be established so that there is a general view. I understand that, in fact, the purpose of this draft is also to do so. It is now a little under a different name, it is a patient safety database, but it would mean that doctors would also have specific criteria in which they would have to inform patients if they had a case in their medical records, they could do tests and better treat these people. Because, in fact, the Committee on Social Affairs also dealt with this for a very long time. It is a pity that there is no Mrs Hele Everausi here now, who spoke as a doctor there. He spoke very warmly about how we already have long cases of COVID and that in fact they need to be taken very seriously and to see how we should proceed with them. Yeah, that's what we were talking about. I think that, in itself, whether this is a register or a collection of data, no matter what we call it, a systemic approach is needed to make sure that these cases are reflected. They are analysed and will be systematically looked at and treated and then compensated accordingly. It's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U175	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U176	Good manager! Dear waitress, That's the same thing as $100,000, well, that's the price of life for vaccine damage. But if you look at the calculations that have been made here in different areas, be it the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Forces [in administrative area], traffic, etc., etc., a simple overview shows that the average life cost is 861000 and the median average is 561000. Have you discussed in the Commission that these prices of life should be the same, not the same, in different areas, especially as far as insurance is concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U177	Thank you. We did not discuss it directly in the Commission, but I have discussed it with colleagues here in the Riigikogu as well as with public officials. I understand you'd rather think it should be uniform. I, too, very clearly believe that it should be like a cross-section, that the price of a person is the same, regardless of his status or position. But I understand there are different opinions. And in our society, there is a multitude of opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U178	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm still coming back to the issue of war refugees. You said the people who work. But we do know that about half the people who arrived in the country are children. What about them? It is clear that this will result in a very heavy burden on family doctors, who are few and whose lists are often overburdened. Is there any additional resources in the state budget and for how long? How much are these [amounts], can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U180	Thank you. Once again, it was another meeting of the Social Affairs Committee where we discussed it. As your former Minister of the Interior, I believe you actually know very well that there is a way to get benefits in such a way that either you register as unemployed or you're a worker. As far as children are concerned, they are certainly covered by social protection and benefit. As far as family doctors are concerned, we really did have a Commission meeting on this issue, where we discussed it in an extra way. Le Vallikiv, chairman of the family doctor's association, made it very clear that the family doctors could handle it. The language issue was also raised in the Commission. It was also found to be manageable, they are able to serve patients and no one is left without medical attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U181	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am dealing with this amount of compensation, EUR 300000, which, in your opinion, is too high in the Commission's view. But I recall, however, that it was on the basis of the active vaccination campaign in the country that people went to vaccinate and here the country cannot shirk responsibility for people who have suffered health damage or death in connection with this campaign. But for me, another very important nuance is that the Commission did not consider that a causal relationship between death or damage to health was established on the basis of the patient's epic crisis, indicating the date of vaccination and the subsequent deterioration of health. Here, a citizen will be put in a very bad position if a Commission decides on this issue. My question is why the Commission's opinion is more credible than the epidemic, which actually proves the deterioration of a person's health after vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U183	Thank you. Yeah, the truth is... [[Coughs.]] I'm so sorry, I just have a little dry cough after the corona. In short, the Commission has made it very clear that it is really not possible to assess it on the basis of the epic crisis, as you have put it. The process is that if a person has a clear suspicion that his or her health has been affected by vaccination, he or she will apply to the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund, in cooperation with the Agency, will review it and then take a decision. I would stress that a person does not have to prove in any way that he has had this case as a result of vaccination, but is likely to have done so. So this is seen as a process, and I think that since it was proposed, it is also the reason why it is said that it is not enough, only on the basis of an epidemic crisis, but that it should actually be viewed more widely and with specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U184	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U185	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The fact that there are many opinions and that it enriches our society is an old known slogan. When the bill on reducing tobacco damage was discussed here, the cost of human life in society was agreed to be a million. Now I hear he's already fallen from the meridian to 500,000 and the average must be 800,000 euros. Well, that's actually worrying. After all, as a mother, you would still like a safe environment for a child where human life is valued. But the question in itself is: if it goes down there further, do you think it will inspire people to feel more confident that my country cares, I will go immediately to vaccinate, or will it create distrust?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U186	Thank you. I come first of all to the fact that the Estonian state has reached such a point that today we have a draft that talks about vaccine damage and insures people of the country, this is a very big step forward. As far as I know from around the world in 27 countries, there has long been a form of insurance that does not exist in Estonia. In other words, we are actually taking a big leap forward with this bill for our people. Now the question is whether these numbers are sufficient or not. Once again, case law was used here. We can discuss whether this case law is sufficient or whether these numbers should be larger. It's a decision-making place, isn't it? Kalle Grünthal, the only member of the Riigikogu, proposed that it be 300,000, but in fact no more proposals came. I think that this discussion in general to ask how much the human price should be, which the state or insurance should compensate for more in the event of death, maybe it should really be raised. No denying it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U187	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U188	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Of course, it is worth recognising that compensation for damages has already come this far as a draft. However, I am still asking about these debates. Here is § 9916: "The Health Insurance Fund is obliged to [... ] to compensate the creditor for material and non-material damage if the vaccination in Estonia has resulted in serious damage to the patient's health lasting at least four months or the patient dies and if [... "And so on. That's the four-month rule. I have at least three known cases where a person was temporarily blinded for a few months, and one was also a nurse who was involved in vaccination. It was quite a difficult thing to do, and we do not know if this vision will fully recover when there are, for example, two months of vision loss. Was there a debate on this? Why is that four-month rule coming in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U189	Thank you. In fact, the honest answer is that there was no question directly. I do not recall any of the Members of the Commission raising the question of whether four months is sufficient or not. Rather, since it is also the words'serious damage to health' in this draft, it has been legally found that this is what lasts at least four months. This is actually, as you emphasised, a very difficult time for a human being. Four months is a long time, and I think that's enough. As regards whether the case you have described could be compensated, I think that this person could certainly apply for it after we have adopted the draft and it has entered into force as a law, because if he has not actually regained his vision until today and he has everything in the case file, I do not think that I am an expert, but I think that both the Health Insurance Fund and the Medicines Agency will certainly look at the case and give their assessment. There are different categories and, in the case of a positive decision, it would receive at least some compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U190	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U191	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I say, as little as I realize from medicine, we've still entered some age of viruses where they come in and go in different ways, they're called, there's a strain, and then he comes and goes somewhere. What are the main arguments, let us say, for you as the Commission's firstwoman? 'Cause you guys can still do something about it if the Ministry says yes, we're gonna make a big law. I also support the idea that the COVID Vaccine Damage Fund could be separate because there will be some other functions of the new virus, while new vaccines will come, some will succeed, some will fail. Then we could deal with it separately, but I think we can also give people a lot of confidence, a sense of security, that we don't hit everything with one shovel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U192	Thank you. I understand why they say that COVID vaccines are more important than maybe the other vaccines that people have used to give themselves the vaccine. But since I really am in contact with a lot of different people and also with parents, I think that a lot of parents who have had their child vaccinated have developed some sort of [suspects], they think that some damage has been caused by the vaccine, they expect this bill. Maybe it actually deals with all the vaccinations. I would never leave them in a different role than the COVID. In other words, if the Riigikogu has the capacity to handle both the vaccine insurance and the liability insurance, I think it should be done today and go on with it, not yet stretching the rubber, as has been done here, when we have talked about both the vaccine insurance and the liability insurance for quite several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U193	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Does this draft increase the responsibility and responsibility of medical staff, doctors for medical decisions and for the documentation of medical failures or damage to health resulting from vaccination? Does this bill increase the responsibility of these employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U195	Thank you. I think that, since we actually dealt with this documentation in several sessions in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have given a clear signal that this should be done. And I think that this bill, in fact, if it has to come, will actually put real pressure on people, that really his family doctor, well, we're talking about the family doctor, who's the first person to be contacted to write what the patient feels and what his problems are, in that medical history. I think that this pressure and awareness from the patient is now starting to come more, because they realise that this is linked to the fact that, now, if there is a probability and a link, for example, with the damage to vaccination, they will be compensated. As far as doctors are concerned, I realized that doctors have waited very long for this, precisely because they too can do so. Mrs Hele Everaus spoke very clearly here at first reading about how it turned out that even in America, the cases of medication errors were third in number when general statistics were taken up. Perhaps they dare admit that medical errors have been made, and they know that mistakes are always the ones that people can learn from. If there is any error in the person's [treatment], it will not be denied, but it will actually be viewed inside its own establishment and it will be tried to learn from it so that there will be no more such cases. Right now, we're making it look like we don't have any medication errors, but that's wrong. I think it is time to get up and come to being aware in this sense that there are actually medical errors, just as there are mistakes in every job, learning from them, must go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U196	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U197	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, You almost answered my question lately. However, I would like to clarify whether this bill also concerns how the damage caused by errors by the health institution or health care provider is compensated. I'm sure there's not a lot of them, but there's definitely a few.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U198	Thank you. This is the liability insurance, or patient insurance, that is known. Otherwise, it is generally the case that if a medical error has been committed, the patient can turn to the insurance undertaking, which fixes it as an insurance case, in accordance with this draft, and then the person is compensated. Now what Mr Priit Sibul said, and what we talked about, amendments 1 and 2 were the exceptions that we talked about. But the general principle is that the patient can turn to the insurance company and apply for compensation if there is a medical error.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U199	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm gonna keep going from here on with the medication mistakes. I remember that at the committee meeting, Dr Everaus also pointed out that Estonia was the only country that had not documented any medical errors, as if we did not have them. Now I have a question within the framework of this draft. We have often developed, like here in Estonia, that insurance companies are only looking for excuses not to compensate for the benefits provided by the contract, not to pay out these benefits. They always find these niches and corners in the law to refuse it. Now, with this bill, are these risks grounded, so that there can be no situation where patient insurance again finds that we have no medical errors at all, because we are such an ideal country, everyone is silenced, and yet the patient who has been injured does not get anything to compensate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U201	Thank you. It is, in fact, the aim of this, that we be more aware of society and that patients receive compensation for medical errors. Is this law perfect today? I think that, in terms of perfection, it is actually necessary to set up a patient or liability insurance fund made up of insurance companies. Any person, right, regardless of which hospital or health care provider he received the service, can go to the fund and apply for compensation. And after this fund is properly internalized so that it doesn't get any negative. In short, I think this law can definitely go on. Now, the question was why it is not here today, especially in the case of liability insurance funds. When we are talking about vaccine insurance, we can say that there is, in fact, a state fund, the state fund, the health insurance fund, which regulates it. So it's very simple. Private insurance companies have just said that they are not yet ready for this step. They will be ready for this step in about three years' time, because they say that this step will also be a challenge for them. They need additional resources to set up the fund, because it is not what the state would do in any way, but what it would really be private. There is a need for both labour and IT resources. That's why we don't have a fund right now. But I think it will certainly increase the capacity for patients to receive [reimbursement]. The other thing is that, if it's still mandatory, then the insurers themselves want the most of how I say, to get contractual customers, and they're also interested in not saying that this insurance is good and the other insurance is bad. So I guess if there's still a case, it's... And another thing. If now the insurer really says that they do not think this is a case, then there is the Conciliation Committee that will come together. That committee shall consist of both legal and medical experts and shall, irrespective of the insurer, make an independent decision and shall state whether or not there is an insurance case. So this Conciliation Committee is the national one that we have here, it has been created, and it should protect people further.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U202	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame waitress! I'd like to ask you about your last answer. When you dealt with this bill in the Commission, did you also raise the medical competence of insurance companies? Is this enough now, or do insurance companies have to hire qualified people from among doctors? And what could all this cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U204	Thank you for that question. Not a single Member of the Commission asked, as I recall, on this subject. And I do not remember that Estonian insurance companies themselves would have approached us with this concern or that it would be a concern for them. So I think they can see that they can solve it inside their organization. I think that, as they can see, they will also see the possibility of taking on an expert, either on a service-by-service basis or, indeed, as employees. I think it's all feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U205	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law on mandatory liability insurance for healthcare providers has been prepared for a very long time. This is a long-awaited bill in the field of health care and among doctors. In this sense, it is welcome that we are dealing with it here today at second reading. The right thing is what ladies and gentlemen asked about and the chairman of the committee replied to, to which Dr Everaus also referred to us on a number of occasions in committee discussions. We also discussed this subject, which I myself will be discussing later, and which concerns me most. Dr Everaus said that although he could even essentially support it, he could certainly not support the separation of this bill, because then things would linger again, and he could not support it. But the truth is that the Estonian medical system, to say ironically or put it in quotes, is phenomenal, isn't it? As has already been pointed out here, we are one of the countries in the world with the least therapeutic errors. We understand that doctors and people are alike everywhere, so it is rather statistical and is mainly due to the fact that, since we do not have a reasonable system, medication errors in the system are simply not fixed, [accounts for this] are not kept, and this is certainly not important in the context of patients or the healthcare system. As I said, during the previous coalition, this bill was also discussed and I was not very enthusiastic. The question is the same as what we discussed here today, what is the cost of life, what are the amounts: it is 100,000 or the sums should be higher/less? But what has been achieved, or what the chairman of the committee was talking about, is whether or not to create it, is, of course, that the consumer of the healthcare system will pay for it in one way or another. The question is, through whom and how do the funds move directly from the Health Insurance Fund to the Health Insurance Fund, is it carried out through health care providers, where they will be subject to compulsory taxes, or just as they are going to leave here at the end of the day? I think it makes more sense if it arises through insurance companies and through the insurance market. Of course, these prices, and the way we write these rates in this law, will depend very much on what this market is going to be, how these things are handled and carried out. I also expect and think that, probably sooner or later, we will have to come to the improvement and improvement of this draft. But the important thing is, we're gonna start with it somewhere. Now, the part of the bill I didn't like. Or it is not a question of compulsory liability insurance for health care providers. In Fatherland, there was a proposal at the end of the year and at the beginning of the year, where we proposed the creation of a COVID Vaccine Damage Fund. Just a few weeks before it gave rise to a more active discussion in society, the honourable ruler stated that he certainly did not consider such a fund to be reasonable, because it gives people the wrong signal and makes people feel that there is a problem somewhere. My position, of course, was exactly the opposite. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U207	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U208	Surely the establishment of this system will actually help to make it more sensible for patients. But I say, as the head of victim support at the Social Insurance Board said yesterday, that we made a number of mistakes and that vaccinations went badly, so I am now talking about vaccination against COVID, and there was a succession of unreasonable decisions or even indecisiveness that created this situation. The reason why my proposal to the Commission was that it was precisely the COVID Vaccine Damage Fund that would be removed from this draft, is that it is significantly different from the remaining vaccine damage funds. Why? For a simple and important reason: in the case of most vaccines, we know how they will be authorised, they will be studied for years, not to say decades before they will be authorised. We know there's another situation with the COVID vaccines. These vaccines were very quickly authorised, and I am not talking about Estonia, I am talking about the world. It's a difference. In my opinion, if we want to create a system that will start and work well, it makes sense to create this damage fund separately. Because this is what has happened at the moment, the representatives of the NPO People said that if otherwise vaccines are brought to the country by pharmaceutical landers, then in the case of COVID vaccines, the importer is the Health Board, the state in one person. The state has decided to, I think, once again through the Health Board, to motivate family doctors and pay them the incentive fee if they are able to attract people to vaccinate. Now those same family doctors... It's humanly complicated. I also mentioned in the committee that I believe and trust Estonian doctors, of course they are based on their ethics, beliefs and understanding. However, the human aspect there is: if, on the one hand, you motivate a person to vaccinate and, on the other hand, you will have to assess that these damage to his health has been caused by the same vaccine that you yourself have motivated him to do, then it is humanly difficult. I say, I hope that doctors are bigger, stronger and better people than the rest, and that does not happen, but that is a human aspect of it. And that would have, in my opinion, deserved to be discussed separately. In order for the rest of the system to function in a sensible and targeted way, the issue of vaccine damage could have been dealt with here as a separate draft. It has been said that, as in all cases, vaccination with COVID is voluntary. I mean, even legally, it's questionable whether we can say that. We know, as I referred to these various motivational systems that the country has put in place in a relatively one-way way, right, because we hoped and wanted to escape this pandemic. And that's understandable. However, in this context, we cannot talk about enormous volunteering, because we have not made any campaigns on the issue of people being responsible for their own health, and I think that this is a positive aspect of this draft if we come back to it now. Perhaps people need to understand that it is not the Health Insurance Fund or the Health Insurance Fund, no matter what its manager wants to call it, according to the law it is still the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Insurance Agency or the Medicines Agency, no one is responsible for human health. A person is responsible for his or her own health. And what is the best way for a person to make these decisions when discussing his or her health with specialists? Certainly, if we have different compensation systems and mechanisms to which this bill contributes, it will in any case be more sensible. For these reasons and because the Commission did not support this fund, I propose, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, that the procedure for this draft be suspended at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U209	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U210	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good decision-makers, good decision-makers! I am not the person who should be talking about medicine here, but I have had the opportunity to attend the Social Affairs Committee several times, and I have just heard the views of the people of the ministry. Sometimes it gets the feeling that something's being done somewhere like a tantrum. When we talk about this vaccine[harm fund], I realized that it's being created rather because people have confidence that these things are good, don't worry, and the state puts its guarantee behind it. Seriously, I think so. I think I represent life-burners my own age who now maybe even a little bit care about their own lives. I don't know what vaccines I've been given, I don't know where to look for this [information]. But I do know I have some smallpox [vaccine] scars, right, something was done, none of us is gonna challenge them. I didn't ask for anything, I was probably small when they did it to me. But today we're in a situation where, first of all, we're in the second place with all the information. Half-truths, half-truths, all of them flew somewhere. So that we can give a certain degree of security to a person... Acoustically, today it just sounds wrong that we're putting all the vaccine damage together. That's what I'm going to translate to the voters now, that if we have all these different vaccines, maybe I'm wrong, if I say something now, we might already have some diseases off the Earth or they don't exist anymore, but maybe there's some kind of vaccine on that list. That is what we all know: every new piece of legislation makes the previous one trivial. And if it turns out now that since there is no one vaccine or there is no need to vaccinate against it [the disease], we are reducing the social guarantees, but automatically everything goes to the other... However, it looks like we're being told one story and another, but after some preliminary committee or somewhere else, there's going to be a ministry and at the last minute they're saying no, we did it, and then he's just talking about it. We in committees have quite often seen things that are actually being changed, not much to talk about. There is talk of this noble purpose, the jacket to which this button will be fitted. But we'd like to know about those buttons. That's how it works. If it turns out that any, I don't know, lampleggedness or what it is, chickenpox or they are, no longer exists in the world, then with one rod, there will be a social guarantee. Maybe then it could be... Human life is of irreparable value. At present, vaccines are being invented on the move, in a situation where medicine refuses to recognise popular medicine. They politely say that there could now be [communication] between scientific medicine and folk medicine, but there is no scientific proof and therefore there will be no synergy. In the meantime, we're actually in the form of scientific medicine, but we're still using our own popular wisdom. Maybe as a land believer or, say, as an old cultural nation here on earth, we know what has been going on for centuries, millennia, but all that is new is alienating. Just so you don't get so weird... But even if scientists do get a little bit of fat, I don't want to say that sentence, but we all know that, there's a profession whose every mistake covers the soil, and no one will ever know it. Therefore, I think that the Commission could look at... Well, I don't think there's enough to bring to court that we're going bankrupt as a country because we're injecting a low-quality vaccine. I don't want to believe that that's why the price of human life is being pulled down. Well, let's force those who produce these vaccines to make a little effort and bet that it doesn't end up fatally in people, but he's still gonna help protect us from the viruses that happen to get out of the Chinese lab somewhere. By accident. Then help us, science, to keep our doors hermetically sealed in China for the rest of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U211	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear dear, priceless colleagues! I'd like to try and get to the point. Indeed, the bill we have on this table today is very long awaited. This has been expected, after all, by both the pioneer medical community and the majority of the medical community, as well as by well-informed patients. I simply repeat that this bill includes the mandatory liability insurance of the health care provider, which specifies the documentation of patient safety cases, the collection and analysis of information. The aim is to learn from these cases and to prevent them. And the second block, which concerns, first and foremost, the amendment to the pharmaceutical law, is the provision of compulsory insurance for vaccine damage. Now, in my opinion, there has been considerable work on this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs, where there has been a very broad involvement of stakeholders. [Engaged were] not only medical practitioners, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies or medical associations, nurses' associations, but also vulnerable groups, such as the NGO Still People, who represent those people who have allegedly and partly been proven to have been affected by vaccines, in particular the COVID vaccine. Our discussions have revealed what is an important subject for me, that when we talk about human life and about human health being invaluable, we cannot only talk about how much I will be compensated for one thing or another, but also about what will happen to me and whether I will recover from these damage, whether it is caused by a vaccine or caused by a mistake caused by some treatment. In this area, it can be said that as far as COVID vaccines are concerned, more knowledge is needed every day. These complications can be found in time and then further treated. I would also like to stress that documentation in healthcare is very, very important, because most of the problems, as we know, are subjective. They can be confirmed by analysis and research, but it starts with subjective disorders and they need to be documented. Now, a little bit of today's state of medication errors. I do not quite agree with the statements made here earlier that this has not been the case at all. Many health care providers have also concluded contracts for the insurance of employees of their own establishment. After all, there have been a number of cases where these things have been reimbursed and paid, compensation has been paid by the medical institution, not by a specific medical officer. However, we certainly have not so far had a national register that could be viewed in a comprehensive way, analysed and drawn conclusions, as is also the case here in the draft explanatory memorandum, with the aim of correcting and learning from these errors. As far as the issue of mystified COVID vaccines is concerned at times, I would say that the vaccines have, however, saved considerably more, I would say, millions more lives than they have damaged. And please look at the statistics, see the website of the Institute for Health Development for vaccine damage, but above all... Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U213	Two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U214	... On the Agency's website, where they are accurately identified on the basis of the type of medicinal product, including vaccine. I would put it to my heart that what the price of human life is, we should think about all the time. You can't put a flag on it, but let's keep each other emotionally in our discussions working in this room. I think here too we need to make sure we don't make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U215	Kalle Grünthal, please! [[Kalle Grünthal also asks for extra time.]] Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U216	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are working on a bill for vaccine damage, among other things. Before I go any further, why don't you rewind the time wheel for a second? At the autumn session, we asked questions to both Tanel Kiige and Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo in this Chamber and asked what to do when problems with human health have occurred. The answer was amazing. You'd better go to court against the pharmaceutical company. Of course, this move is pointless. And the fact that this bill is on this table today is very welcome. But it is not because of the state's resistance, but because the issue of these vaccine damage , I am referring to COVID, not because of the other - the critical limit has been crossed, where it is no longer hidden and cannot be denied. Perhaps the government is currently in a state of compulsion. Before I go any further, I'll mark important keywords. First of all, what's a vaccine? The vaccine is a biological agent, and I stress: a biological agent that is able to obtain immunity to a particular disease. Now if we take the COVID vaccines here, in quotes, this definition is a little different, there are no biological preparations here. And the answer is one: in the case of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, the modified nucleoside mRNA is transferred into the modified host cells packed in libid nanoparticles, resulting in transient expression of the SARS-CoV-2 S spinal protein antigen. Maybe we don't have an ounce of biological stuff here. Here we come to the key question. Unlike conventional medicines, vaccines are also used to prevent diseases and are generally available to healthy people. Therefore, very little and only minor side effects are expected from the vaccines. The benefits of vaccines are to prevent infectious diseases and complications, including, of course, deaths. An important condition for vaccination is certain vaccine-related adverse reactions that have occurred during clinical trials and are listed in the package leaflet at the time of placing on the market. When we take the COVID Vaccine Package, we will read a very interesting conclusion: "No studies on genotoxicity or carcinogenicity were carried out. The components of the vaccine are not expected to have genotoxic potential. " How do you feel when your doctor says that I think this medicine is safe for you? I'm sure no doctor will prescribe that kind of medicine. Therefore, the claim that this product is safe for our genetics and has no cancer-causing effect is based only on the assumption. What else is very important? The fact that if we got rid of this vaccination against COVID, then the healthcare professional should actually find out whether or not the person has contraindications, for example allergies to the excipients or something else that should be cautious. Healthcare professionals should also explain possible side effects and other reactions. But what did we see? We saw that vaccination was a campaign, a conveyor method. That is not the purpose of the way these things are done. Of course, we cannot forget that it is also important to keep and store vaccines, so that they are not damaged and that we do not get the kind of filth that is already unusable. So these factors are very diverse and therefore there is a very important need to comply with all safety requirements. I now come to the main point. EKRE proposed that a person be paid, according to the current draft, not EUR 100000, but EUR 300000 in the event of extremely serious damage to health or death. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there was an objection that we had case-law. I say right away that there is no such case law as the one in which we deal with such cases. Secondly, the Ministry objected that this one-time case, where one rescue worker died, was exceptional and related to his work. No, it's not! This is a completely unfounded claim by these ministry officials. The work relates to those cases of compensation which are specifically linked to the performance of a duty during working hours. But this rescue worker was not yet obliged to go into vaccination on any kind of demand from the ministry or on any other basis. He did. He believed they were telling him the truth. And what's important? The fact that the side effects of these so-called COVID vaccines have not been studied. Remember, a lot has been said about the remote control that side effects over 60 have not been studied, in pregnant women have not been studied, no interaction with other medicines has not been investigated. Maybe this whole COVID vaccine thing has been absolutely experimental. What does § 18 of the Constitution say? No one shall be subjected to scientific and health tests without his or her consent. Thus, the position of the EKRE is the only and correct one: since the state encouraged people to vaccinate, the country also suffers from human harm as part of the vaccination campaign, if it is related to the same vaccine. That is why it is an absolutely reasonable amount of EUR 300000 and I ask you in this Chamber to support this proposal. Another very important issue now is how it is demonstrated that death or damage to the health of a person is related to the COVID vaccine. Our proposal was that it is considered to have been demonstrated on the basis of the patient's epic crisis, which shows the date of vaccination and the subsequent deterioration or death of the condition. That would be the only solution. If we go to some sort of Commission on this issue, then everything will be done there so that the state does not have to pay. We recall the events in Põltsamaa where a person died after the vaccine and then said that it was not caused by the COVID vaccine. So I would also ask you to support the draft amendment that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U217	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good co-decidors! Indeed, it is a long step forward, it is also the result of long pressure and, unfortunately, also the result of severe experience, because at least one death has been recognised by our medical authorities that it was indeed the death of the vaccine. What's shocking is that there are stories I've heard, most of which I can't prove, but for some, I also have names, people, times and jobs, and there seems to be an incredible amount of damage. There are a lot of examples from serious people, including medical professionals themselves. There should be a high level of trust in medical personnel. But now, why even take the situation seriously? Let me give you just one example. This is a large-scale vaccine damage in Sweden related to vaccination against swine flu. A total of 702 cases of narcolepsy, 440 of which were related to Pandemrix vaccine, were considered to be narcolepsy. The Swedish State has paid over SEK 10 million for these people's losses. And one of the reasons why Sweden has been more cautious about the current vaccination campaign is the startling experience with the consequences of the swine flu vaccine. The effects of the swine flu vaccine also extended to Estonia. I know this guy we used to play fun games with this summer, paintball games. The kids had a lot of fun, but maybe the parents panicked, said the boy was missing. I asked how the boy could just disappear. But they said he's suffering from swine flu-induced narcolepsy, he could fall asleep anywhere. And he had just fallen asleep in the woods. Then try to find a child who doesn't make a sound but just sleeps under a tree somewhere. Maybe this scary case has come up pretty close to me. But I'll give you an example of The Guardian that says what happened to a girl because of a swine flu vaccine. He falls asleep on average 40 times a day, sometimes he just falls asleep in the middle of a conversation. He also suffers from cataplexy, which is a loss of muscle control. They say his life is ruined, it's over, he sleeps 40 times a day and the consequences are severe. As I said, there were 702 cases of narcolepsy in Sweden. So it's worth learning from other people's experiences, not experimenting on yourself. When such an accident happens, we have finally come here that our people do not have to go alone against the world's largest pharmaceutical corporations, but they also receive state aid here. It is still a long step forward, a very long step forward. I am delighted with those who did stand up for it. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U219	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U220	And as for our current situation, where Pfizer is the main provider of vaccines, we will recall Pfizer's history. He has paid the highest fine in the history of the U.S. Civil Court. It was 2.3 billion dollars for the marketing of counterfeit medicines, for the delivery of falsified research. In total, there were five drugs that they forged, which they forged and marketed to a group of at least 8 million people. According to my information, they had to supply the U.S. Army and individuals associated with the army. The U.S. state considered it a great humiliation that a pharmaceutical company is promising something that it simply cheats on drugs. Besides, one of them was a fever-reducing agent, one was an antiepileptic medicine, which was linked to a wide range of diseases. We can't just be naive and believe that all pharmaceutical companies are doing the perfect job. Perhaps the example I have given that Swedish society remembers this scandal that happened in 2009 very well, which concerns Pandemrix and which relates to the rather catastrophic effects of narcolepsy. As a result, we do not have the right to impose on our compatriots, policemen, rescuers, defence forces and, in fact, all those who, on the basis of a risk analysis, have been subjected to forced vaccination by force. We'll probably only find out in time what that effect really was, because at times it seems to me to be an international drug test. Unfortunately, I have no faith in Pfizer's abilities, especially after the ugliness he committed against the U.S. Army, fraud, counterfeiting. Let's think about it. Development and what we have done are positive in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U221	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have come to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment, from the Committee on Social Affairs, has taken full account of this. Mr. Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U222	On behalf of the EER Group, please put this amendment to the vote and, before that, I would like to ask for a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U223	Two minutes? Got it. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U224	Dear Riigikogu, we have reached the debate on the amendments to Bill 522. The first amendment is underway, and the EKRE Group wanted to vote on it. Therefore, I shall vote on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and by the commission of laissez-passer that has taken full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U225	With the result of 27 votes against and no abstentions, the amendment has been accepted. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U226	I have a procedural question. As we know, the rules of procedure and home affairs provide that if a debate on an item on the agenda is to be closed, then the next sitting must be continued where it left off. If there is now a break before the vote and we can accommodate three minutes in this sitting and seven more, will we continue to take a seven-minute break in the next working week or not? The rules didn't open it, I looked. How do we interpret and treat it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-24_U227	Yeah, then we'll go on with the seven-minute break. But this is not an opportunity, because I, as President, am finishing the sitting right now.
