ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the 7th working week. Dear women, allow the entire male family of the Riigikogu to wish you a beautiful Women's Day. [[Let's hear it.]] And now it is possible for everyone, both men and women, to hand over drafts or enquiries to the Riigikogu proceedings. Please! Andrei Korobenik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U3	Sorry, Andrei! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee presents the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U5	I don't see any more calls. I have adopted one draft decision and we will decide on it further within the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U6	71 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U7	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Isamaa Group. Call chair Helir-Valdor Seeder, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in December last year, the Isamaa Group submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings a draft decision of the Riigikogu "Confirmation of principles of the reform of the electricity market," which is the decision of the Riigikogu, converted into "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Governing Commission. But a little bit later on, the subject of the transformation, first of all, the content of this bill. The content of the draft is as follows: Due to the extraordinary rise in the price of electricity resulting from the energy crisis and in accordance with § 65 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu decides, first, that the government should develop, within one month of the entry into force of this Decision, a plan for the reform of the electricity market for the protection of small consumers, based on the following principles. 1.1. As a new universal service, electricity sellers are obliged to offer small customers an off-exchange electricity package, the pricing of which is coordinated with the Competition Authority. And point 1.2. Nord Pool's electricity market in the Estonian price area has an obligation to sell directly, without intermediary of the stock exchange, the electricity needed to meet the new universal service obligation. The pricing shall be based on the costs of generating electricity and on the return on capital in accordance with the rules laid down by the Competition Authority and the prices shall be coordinated with the Competition Authority. And point 1.3. In the form of a budget allocation to electricity producers, the State compensates for the cost of the CO2 quota for electricity produced as a universal service. That was the draft initiated by the Fatherland. And now, if you compare it with this text that has reached this reading today, it has been worded somewhat differently. I am not going to comment very much on these differences with regard to its content, because they are, in principle, more or less the same. However, the title of the draft has changed, and this is a very fundamental change of substance, because the draft proposed by the Fatherland, "The Riigikogu's decision on "Confirmation of the principles of the reform of the electricity market', did not require the Government of the Republic to submit a draft law. And according to the Constitution, they are dealt with at least according to the opinion of the Fatherland Party and we have also consulted lawyers and lawyers differently, whether this is a proposal to submit a bill to the Government of the Republic or whether it is simply a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which does not assume that the government should come up with a bill. The fundamental difference is that in one case there is a need for a majority of compositions, in the other case a simple majority of votes is sufficient. Secondly, one draft is dealt with at one reading, the other at two readings. So the differences are very substantive, but I guess I can still talk about that at the end of my report. However, I would like to focus on the content for the time being. In particular, the content is due to the fact that according to Statistics Estonia, the consumer price index increased by 1.5% in February compared to January and by 12% compared to February 2021, the previous year. In fact, the prices of goods were 10.7% more than a year earlier and the prices of services were 14.5% more expensive. The consumer basket increased with February, again in annual comparison, by 12%, with an increase in energy prices of 36%. And energy prices represent a very large part of the household costs of Estonian people. On average, households spend 15% of their income on energy. So it's a very important effect. On this subject, we have also been very active in discussing and seeking solutions to energy prices in this Parliament for the last three or four months, in particular, electricity, gas, but also the future of electricity and energy production in Estonia, the availability of energy, the possibilities of transmission, our own production capacities and much more. But today I do not want to talk about these long perspectives and the necessary decisions that have not been made during the various governments, which is why we are perhaps in a more difficult situation now than we could be. But to make the illusions that spring will come, the weather will get warmer, the days will get lighter, and the problem will disappear, as it may be, temporarily, but next autumn we will actually face the same problems. And given what is happening now in Europe, the war in Ukraine, energy supply, security of energy supply, energy security will be increasingly important for Estonia as well and for energy prices in the future, in the coming years, to be affordable and affordable. There is no point in living in illusions, this problem will hit us again next fall. The content of the proposal put forward by the Fatherland is briefly to allow smaller consumers, households and small producers, to buy electricity on an OTC basis, to give consumers freedom of choice, to choose whether they want to continue on the stock market and to buy stock exchange prices or to buy electricity as a universal service. So our point is this: not to provide that we have to leave the stock market on a mandatory basis, but precisely to give the choice to households and small consumers, so that there is an opportunity to choose who wants to be on the stock market and take these stock market risks and who wants to use the universal service, as we have set out here, to use this universal service at a more stable price. A more or less similar system has also been implemented in Lithuania and France. So it can be implemented as a Member State of the European Union. This is in line with the rules and laws of the European Union. Of course, this requires negotiations with the European Commission, and it takes time, and also at national level, certain procedures are definitely needed here. But if we do not start today, we will lose time and be in a difficult situation in the coming winters and heating periods. That is why we have proposed that the Government of the Republic, I emphasise once again, does not have to submit any draft legislation here, but, on the contrary, endorses the principles and plan for the reform of the electricity market. We want the government to endorse these principles and plans. And once this scheme has been developed by the government, the principles have been confirmed, it will be clear whether and what legislative proposals need to be drawn up at all. This is the next stage. So that the Board of the Riigikogu and the Steering Committee interpreted our proposal in such a way that they changed the title, content and nature of the draft, and found it to be a proposal for the Government of the Republic to draft the draft, as is apparent from the Constitution, and that it requires 51 votes and can only be dealt with at one reading, it is not in accordance with the Constitution or with our rules of procedure, I dare say. It is, I admit, in line with our previous practice, although this practice, as it turns out, has been different. Indeed, most of the proposals have been dealt with as requiring 51 votes. But I would point out that our draft was not even a proposal; there is also this distinction, so we cannot rely very much on this earlier practice either. So I am no longer commenting on the content of our draft, because it is obvious to everyone here that energy issues are of the utmost importance and that we cannot afford to postpone making these important decisions and choices, which concern electricity production in Estonia, energy supply, energy security. These decisions must be taken today and the government must also be very active in these matters. And this Parliament's decision is also an input to the Government of the Republic that Parliament expects such decisions and proposals from the Government. Now, on the legal side, so that you, ladies and gentlemen, can better understand that this is not just a question of pickling by the Isamaa Group or of formal nuances, but is still a pretty fundamental approach, and we are creating a precedent for the future of this draft now. And that's not the positive precedent we're creating right now. But a brief explanation. According to § 109 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the adoption of draft decisions usually takes place at second reading. Paragraph 109 "Final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu': "The draft decision of the Riigikogu may be put to the final vote after the end of the second reading'. And § 154 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provides, among other things, for the special procedure for dealing with the draft decision of the Riigikogu containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic. In accordance with paragraph 3 of this section, it is discussed at a single reading. And according to § 103 (2) of the Constitution, the Riigikogu has the right to appeal to the Government of the Republic on the basis of a decision taken by a majority of its component members to initiate the draft proposed by the Riigikogu. And the relevant provision was voted in the draft Constitution at the 29th session of the Constitutional Assembly on 3 April 1992. The chairman of the drafting panel explained the necessity of the provision as follows: "However, there may be a situation in the legislative process where there is an obvious need to regulate some area with the laws and the Riigikogu is unable to develop the necessary draft legislation with its own forces. In such a situation, the Riigikogu should have the constitutional opportunity to order the corresponding bill from the Government of the Republic. The commissioning of such a draft law should require greater political consensus and agreement on the concept of this draft law. This area would probably have to be [... ] to be more detailed in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, but the provision of such an opportunity in the Constitution should provide a guideline that such a mechanism should be established by the Rules of Procedure Act. " It is very clear from this comment that the requirement for a majority of the composition should apply only in the case of a proposal to initiate a draft law, I believe that this was also a very clear and sufficient explanation by the constitutional authors, rather than in the case of any proposal made by [the Riigikogu] to the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu can also make proposals to the Government of the Republic to regulate matters falling within the competence of the Government of the Republic. When it comes to the competence of the government, the Riigikogu can also propose and does not need any draft at all in this Chamber. As an example, I would like to present the EKRE draft with the proposal to abolish the corona restrictions for the Government of the Republic, because the corona restrictions are imposed by the legislation of the Government of the Republic, not by Parliament. There is no need for any proposal to be made to Parliament here, and therefore there is no need for 51 votes on the draft in this large Chamber. On 8 December 2021, the Isamaa Group launched a draft decision on "Confirmation of the principles of the reform of the electricity market', which is 497 OE. This draft did not include a proposal to initiate a draft law for the Government of the Republic. This bill did not contain at all a proposal to the Government of the Republic. This draft included the endorsement of the principles of the electricity market reform and the obligation for the Government of the Republic to develop a plan for the reform of the electricity market on the basis of these principles. In our opinion, this bill should have been dealt with in a normal manner, i.e. as a two-reading draft. And I would remind you that this has also caused confusion. The draft, which should be read in two readings, was converted into a draft by a single reading and thus changed the deadline for proposing amendments, [they had to be submitted] already before the first reading. Thus, members of the Riigikogu found themselves in a very difficult situation. They knew that a draft would be submitted to the procedure, which would have to be submitted at two readings and after the first reading, but this would suddenly become a single reading in the course of the procedure, and the amendments had to be submitted before the first reading. So there was also a very practical problem. The Riigikogu Board of the Riigikogu adopted the draft. I think he did it wrong, too. If he interpreted that it should be 51 votes and one reading, it would not have met the procedural conditions, and in that case it should have been returned to the initiators. But the Bureau took it to the procedure, directed the commission, and the commission reorganized it. That's a precedent I don't remember before. Thus, the Board of the Riigikogu adopted the draft as a draft proposal to the Government of the Republic and fixed the deadline for submitting amendments before the first reading of the draft. The Economic Commission supported the position of the Board of the Riigikogu with the coalition's votes and introduced amendments to the draft by changing the title of the draft, the legal basis for initiating the draft and point 1 of the draft. We cannot agree in any way to such an approach and to amending the draft in this form, be that stated here. The draft we have initiated is not a proposal for the Government of the Republic to initiate a draft law. The main content of our draft was the endorsement of the principles of the reform of the electricity market and the commitment of the Government of the Republic to draw up the reform agenda on the basis of these principles. In this respect, the plan cannot be compared with the draft law. Our desirable programme for the reform of the electricity market would be the subject of a parliamentary debate and could be a draft law, but may not be born of it. In fact, it would also be possible to initiate a draft law in Parliament, not by the Government of the Republic, later, if this really happens. So the introduction to my bill consisted of two parts today. One was a substantive side, and I hope that we will also be able to deal with the substantive side in this Parliament in the future, because if this draft is not approved now in this form, then the Fatherland Group will certainly come back to this issue in the near future, because these issues of energy production, supply and security are very important. But I hope that Parliament will understand this and, on these issues, Parliament cannot stand aside from this debate and the decision-making process. So that's the essence of it. And I really sincerely hope that the government and also Parliament, the various political groups, will deal with its substance by looking for a common part and trying to find solutions in the short term regarding the price of electricity and gas, so that it can be achieved by [people]. We can see that the two different price compensation mechanisms adopted by the government on a regular basis are temporary solutions, one of which can be said to have been very unsuccessful and did not work. The second, which was later adopted, was certainly significantly better and somewhat alleviated the shock of electricity prices for certain people. But these are temporary solutions and they cannot be sustainable. So I hope that we will continue to deal with this content. But the formal side, which is also procedurally very substantive and, as I said, currently a precedent-creating. That is the other part of the matter that I would like to emphasise and which is not at all insignificant, because, in implementing this practice as Members of Parliament, we are going bypassing both the procedure laid down in the Constitution and our own Rules of Procedure, which we have laid down. So I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu for a constructive discussion and a benevolent attitude towards this bill. And I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will support the initiative of the Isamaa Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U9	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Sven Sester's starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good Helir, thank you for giving me this overview, both in terms of content and form! I'm not gonna ask you about the contents, because I'm one of the ones who've prepared it here, but for the half of the uniform. You stopped at it for a relatively long time, and I think for a reason, because it really is unprecedented in that sense, that the draft has been formally amended, which was handed over by the Isamaa Group in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. But my question in essence is whether I understand correctly that the first filter should actually be the board of the Riigikogu, who will review and tell whether it is correct in terms of technical terms or not, and [if necessary] will send it back to the initiator. Right now, I think there's some kind of bug in the system. According to my information and understanding, the Bureau has sent this committee, and now, indeed, being a Member of the Commission itself, I saw that in the Commission, essentially by a majority, the coalition ambassadors changed it. Is there a mistake in our system somewhere, is there a need to change the rules of procedure? You've been on the board yourself, so maybe you can comment on what's the problem here. How could this ever happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U11	Thank you. This is a very important and very fundamental issue. Indeed, our Rules of Procedure state that if the draft submitted does not meet the technical requirements laid down by the Rules of Procedure Act and which are also derived from other laws, the Bureau should return it to the initiator in order to submit the correct draft. In this case, the board did not do so. It is true that the Bureau turned, and the Commission later turned to the initiator and suggested that we treat it differently, but the initiators did not agree with it. There is a small correspondence on this. But the Bureau went this way, so he decided to take this draft to the proceedings and put it to the Committee on Economic Affairs. And the Committee on Economic Affairs, contrary to the intentions of the initiator, turned it into a draft of 51 votes and changed the substance of the title and the draft, and consequently the whole logic of the draft procedure changed. And in my opinion, yes, both the governing board of the Riigikogu and the commission who did so were wrong. This was not, I think, right and good practice from the point of view of the culture of procedure, and I believe that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and also to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U12	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, the state's success, I stress, in order to succeed, is to have a so-called price monopoly in the state as far as strategic issues are concerned. And for some reason, I think electricity is something that should be a state monopoly. The question is that when we buy electricity on the market, it gives the market an opportunity to manipulate our economy, our business, people's livelihoods. That's my short opinion. Of course, I support this proposal, but the question is: why have you presented such a half egg? Sorry for the expression, but in fact we should absolutely exit the electricity market so that no one outside can influence our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U14	Thank you. Good questioner, here we are probably somewhat different views on this issue. In my opinion, this draft is not incomplete, but it is precisely a comprehensive one. And when it comes to taking part in the power exchange and going there years ago, I think that at that point, in this context and at that time, it was not a wrong decision. Consumers, producers, domestic consumers and small consumers in Estonia have been able to enjoy and benefit from cheap electricity prices for many years. But we have to understand that the whole context has changed today. We cannot rigidly stick to this time, and we must also have the flexibility to react to the changed situation. The proposal of the Fatherland is precisely the proposal to respond to a changed situation. Today, to say that we are only on the market on the stock market, in a situation where the stock exchange does not act as we would like, and creates certain problems... And here we cannot talk today that the stock market is equal to an open market economy, where there is also open competition. No, it's not! There are so many moments why this is not the case. There is an administrative CO2 policy, there are limited transmission possibilities and so on and so forth. All of this we know, and that is why our proposal has been, above all, to give the opportunity to participate and continue on the stock market for those who wish to. Obviously, we will also see in the future certain periods where the electricity price on the stock exchange is cheaper than the price of electricity at regulated prices. We will certainly see that in the future. But we also see that the stock market is not universal and there are periods in which it can make unprecedented jumps, as we saw last December, which have a shock effect on society as a whole. And to give consumers, at least small and domestic consumers, EU law makes it possible to make a choice in favour of a more stable electricity price, i.e. to buy electricity off the stock exchange at a price coordinated by the Competition Authority, we think it is reasonable. [It is reasonable] to give this option and not to cut off this stock exchange. So we still leave consumers the opportunity to decide what they prefer, but this opportunity to buy at a price coordinated by the Competition Authority could remain, and we will see that possibility. We very much support this choice and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U15	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Obviously, the Reform Party is also a supporter of the market economy, so the market would need regulation. And the Centre Party is also known as the Central Market Faith [the Party]. My question is which of the parties to the coalition felt that it was as if he had been excluded from the game, if the opposition were to write down now, say new principles about how we should be in this electricity market. Because I don't think there's anything but purely personal jealousy, maybe because it wasn't a good idea. When the market gets hot, sometimes you gotta get involved. If the market is too cool, we need to intervene again. Where under the rock is the cancer now buried?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U17	Thank you. I hope that common sense will win this draft and we will find a solution here at one point, both above opposition parties and above coalition parties. This is a very strategic question for Estonia, which concerns energy supply and what capacity we have to produce ourselves and what capacity we have to purchase electricity at affordable prices, both in terms of maintaining the competitiveness of our economy and at affordable prices for consumers. But in answer to your question directly: I do not know the internal soul life of the coalition so much that I can now say in this draft initiative what the position of the Centre Party and the Reform Party is or whether they have different and conflicting views. I do know that in the case of electricity price compensation, the parties to the coalition had different views and opinions. After all, we made sure that these disputes went on for a very long time and that the differences were very great. With regard to energy taxation in the current situation, the parties to the coalition have completely different views when we are talking about VAT on electricity, excise duties and probably many other issues. On these issues, the parties to the Coalition clearly have different views and opinions. But I don't know what we're proposing. Perhaps the representative of the Commission, when he comes here, will be able to explain in more detail the debate in the committee and the views expressed by the representatives of one group or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U18	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U19	Good manager! Honourable waitress! Do you have any idea why the coalition has kept the electricity market law in a drawer for almost three months? We know that the idea of the draft, which was handed over in December, was to help our people already in December. We know that Norway made a quick decision in December and charged the electricity price EUR 70 per megawatt-hour. But we have now come up with 120 euros per megawatt-hour for this charge. Do you not feel that just today's coalition still does not have a reasonable view of the people and companies of Estonia, but wishes to strip away the last reserves they have in the winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U20	The fact that this draft has not been moved forward is very regrettable, because it is now very topical for all people and businesses. But there is one reason why I also referred to in the previous response: there are different positions in the coalition. There are different positions in the coalition, there is no consensus on this procedure, and we can probably see that again on several occasions during this working week in this Chamber. There are also drafts concerning the energy issue of other parties, both the EKRE and the Social Democrats, in the process and they concern the same subject. We can see that these coalition parties have also had very different attitudes and positions. True, in some cases, when one or the other draft has reached a vote as a proposal for a large hall, at least one of the coalition's parties has distorted their positions and initiatives before. I am thinking, in particular, of the Centre Party, which, at the level of the party chairman, has come up with the initiative to reduce the value added tax on electricity. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has come up with this proposal and moved it to the office. And then, if there has been an opportunity to support this proposal in this large Chamber, the opposite has been done. So, unfortunately, it is. We all know that once we are in opposition, and once we are in the coalition, and the coalition must be agreed, and if there is no consensus, then we can act against our own proposals to ensure that the coalition is preserved. I guess that's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Riigikogu have a [can be asked] question in the process of processing this draft. No further questions. But, Sven, I'm sure you can ask Heliri right now, there's no problem. And now, on behalf of the lead committee, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me present to you what took place on 21 February at the Commission meeting, which was attended by nine members of the Commission. The drafters' side, of course, presented the draft, as envisaged by the procedure. In general it was introduced to you, the same arguments were also put forward at the meeting, it was done very substantively and rightly. However, a certain discussion broke out as a number of officials attended the meeting and ministerial representatives presented their arguments in favour or against this draft. First of all, it was said that such a service is already being offered on the market, not in the form that the drafters are offering it. The price on the market is much higher at the moment for this service and, of course, not everyone chooses this package, but such an option exists. It was also said that the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and other laws, which was currently pending at the time, 426 SE, would certainly give rise to the introduction on the market of universal service and universal service packages, which are much more favourable. Today, it has been passed as a law, and soon, certainly, we hope, the price of providing universal service on the market will decrease. There was talk of cost coverage, how the revenue from the sale of CO2 could be allocated to the financing of this measure. It was mentioned that, first of all, it is quite difficult to define in the current market who provides energy from fossil fuels, who provides green energy. But according to the law, the proceeds from the sale of CO2 are prohibited from compensating fossil fuel sources. It's clearly forbidden. That was a lot to talk about. It was also examined how much this measure would be implemented. It was mentioned that it is estimated to be around 250 million, which can be covered by the CO2 quota revenue, which represents around 300 million this year. And, of course, there was a greater discussion about whether or not to make an amendment. The proposal has been made, the title has been changed. The current rapporteur spoke quite thoroughly about this and presented why they did not agree with this amendment, but the amendment was accepted and accepted by the Commission. Finally, procedural decisions were taken: to put the [draft] on the plenary agenda on 8 March and a final vote was proposed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U23	Some questions also need to be answered. Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U24	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am not now the smartest person in the world to be able to hit this market economy, but I understand that there are two parties in the market: there are consumers and there are producers. This new draft, which, as you said, we will have somewhere to come, of course, we know from the coalition, we have heard that there is always somewhere to come, but it will not come until next autumn. In the summer, we are all relatively good and warm, we can open the window, and troubles have been wiped out. But this new draft, which you know is coming, is it manufacturer-friendly or consumer-friendly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U25	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, the discussion on this issue is very important. Of course, discussions can be held both in the media, in the public space and in this Chamber. But to comment on the bill that's coming, I can't, because I haven't seen it. And to talk about what's going to happen, I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U26	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U27	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the good Commission. As always, there's a reason and a consequence. This bill, the decision of the Riigikogu at this point in time, is the result of what the electricity market has become. And two important things that are set out in this bill. Firstly, it is for the seller and buyer to be able to operate over the counter on the entry into force of this draft, and since the price of CO2 still needs to be compensated because it is one of those components, it also provides for compensation by the State. My question to you is this: will the consumer get electricity at a better price if this draft is adopted? And would it increase Estonia's competitiveness, including our companies, if we exclude the price of CO2 from direct costs by compensating it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U28	Thank you, good questioner! Really a very good question, because we are all concerned about what happened in that winter. Now the situation has improved a little, but clearly what happened with the December accounts was insanity, which we need to discuss and think about which way to go. A certain path had been chosen tens of years ago, along this road, and then it was thought to be the right way and there was no need to turn left or right, because this choice is very right. This discussion, which has broken out in society today, is a very correct discussion. Surely, as a result of this discussion, there must be some understanding of what must actually be done. And whether it emerges consensually or certain choices are made, that is clearly indicated by time. As regards your question as to whether this draft proposal will improve the price or make it worse for the consumer, it is a little difficult to answer that question. Because when we talk about it compared to the December accounts, it is clear that it gives an advantage, but if we compare it with, for example, June last year, it does not confer an advantage. That is the question of what we compare with and what stage or moment we compare. Today, there are such universal services on the market, but their price is, unfortunately, higher, because these services are clumsy and the consumer can always abandon this package, go away from this package. But I believe that the newly adopted law, which allows for the creation of packages for the market where a person is associated with this package for a certain period, allows market participants to offer much more favourable options for choosing a package where a certain price is guaranteed to them both in January and June. Then they can proceed peacefully with this package. Today, for the most part, the cost or risk of such a universal service package is borne by the undertaking. The trader knows that today, if the price is high, he will have to compensate for this price, but tomorrow, if the price is lower, the consumer will be able to leave him and choose another package or another bidder. I think this newly adopted law will improve the situation a little. Let's see what it brings, and then we'll figure out what to do next. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U29	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that for nearly three months this draft was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because it is very important for the people of Estonia. I just want to let you know if you haven't looked at the bills lately or if you don't know what's going on on the stock market: the gas price has increased 10 times today in the last six months. Ten times! The price of electricity has increased as of today, it can be said calmly, seven to eight times. In my opinion, the Committee on Economic Affairs should have called experts very seriously for all these three months and discussed how to resolve the situation. One of the options is currently being discussed here. The Commission tried to break all possible and impossible rules and to amend this bill so that it would not get anywhere. Has the Centre Party given up helping the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U31	Good questioner, thank you for your question. But it's like I don't really understand your predicament. The point is that the decisions [which have led to] a market situation have been made a long time ago. They were not made in December or November, they were made ten years ago. There were no problems and no problems with these mechanisms. Neither in this Chamber nor anywhere else has these issues been raised. To talk about the need to move quickly in three months and quickly change the situation and react... We all talked for ten years about the principle of free market in this matter. This situation has sounded different in this Chamber, there were no other arguments. And today we're gonna talk about turning the whole thing around right now, and it's not quite right either. There were words everywhere in this Chamber that there must be a free market in this area, an open market and that we must deliver on the basis of market rules. Of course, the Estonian people need help in this situation; of course, we need to find solutions to help them. Today, a whole package of measures has been put in place. Whether these measures work or do not work is demonstrated by time. First of all, things must be approached socio-economically. The first thing to do is to help people who are most in trouble. Of course, in the second round, entrepreneurs must be helped. Large companies' bills get them out of competition. But again, how are they out of competition? The same situation is the case in Latvia, the same situation is in Lithuania, the same situation is in Finland. We're all in the same market economy room where we trade energy. Electricity prices are the same for Latvia and Lithuania, gas prices are the same for Latvia and Lithuania. Their operators are in a similar situation. We are not acting alone in this situation, as a separate economic object. We're the economic objects of the whole system, the big system. Of course, there is a need to help people and, of course, there is a need for discussion and, of course, there is a need to deal with it. But to talk about someone failing to do something, because there was a debate on the draft, yes, clearly there could be reproach. But the changes that need to be made are not a one-day change. These changes will have an impact on the electricity market for years to come. Decisions must be taken just as decisions taken ten years ago, which were valid for ten years, and so decisions which are valid for ten years must be taken today. But I totally agree with you that people need to be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U32	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U33	To your previous answer, I will simply say for a brief comment that yes, we are in a common market. You have given the example of Latvia and Lithuania here, Finland as well as a large part of the Nordic countries, we have here in the common market. In the meantime, we had a ten-fold electricity price difference here, so there's a lot of thinking. And when you talk about measures, you know very well that they are now only for the purpose of erasing fire and very temporary, they were only extended by a month. These are not even solutions for two or three years at all, not to mention the longer term. But now my question. The Committee on Economic Affairs, as you said in your presentation, was very supportive of the need for discussion on this subject, and a very thorough debate is needed. Then why did the Committee on Economic Affairs, as a result of the discussions, come to the conclusion that you do not support this draft and this debate at Parliament level? And you also do not support the government to discuss, develop a plan of principles for the reform of the electricity market, the foundations, the proposals, and you do not support this either. Where do you think this debate should take place if Parliament and the government are excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U34	Good questioner! I might reply to the first part of your question first. The difference between the price of electricity in Finland and Estonia is clear. We have a certain connection, we have a certain region, we have a trading area, and a certain connection allows a certain amount of energy to pass through. And that is the good question of what to do with these connections: developing them or not developing them? Because when we built a connection with Latvia and Lithuania, our capacity immediately improved and we immediately became one trading area. Our price is exactly the same as in Latvia and Lithuania. As far as Finland is concerned, of course, we need to consider and think about how we can improve our contact with Finland so that we can become one region in particular, where our capacity is as great as our southern neighbours. I think this is it. As regards support for or non-support for the draft, I did not understand well why or on the basis of which you draw this conclusion, because the Commission did not take the view that they did not support this draft. This bill is assessed by the hall and the hall says whether or not to give the government the task. But as far as the debate is concerned, of course, there are all the possibilities. There is also a parliamentary debate for this, there is an opportunity to put forward drafts, there is also a public debate where you can give your opinion. Of course, the coalition relies on the government to develop its own positions or its own drafts. The government makes its proposals and the coalition waits for the government to take action. That's the way the rules are, and that's the way these procedures are, somehow they've developed over the years, and it's kind of hard to get past them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U35	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U36	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! This draft was presented already during the previous crisis, when people had very high bills at the end of the year. The Fatherland proposal is that it is possible to... We all understand that there is currently no [right] stock exchange package to go into the fixed payment package, because they run in parallel. That is why the idea of a third measure not having to participate in this understanding is also there. Since February 24, we are living in a new era and [now] this draft is actually even more topical, because we understand that this situation, which was in December and January, will last and we do not know exactly how long. If we look today at what is happening to energy carriers, it is obvious that this crisis will last longer. I understand that the Centre Party Group is ready to support different solutions, but not this draft. How are you guys doing? Do you support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U37	Thank you, good questioner! I would say that this draft is certainly very important and this inclusion of one measure is also a very good plan and a very good decision. But the question is that in the end, someone should pay for it, whether it is the consumer, whether it is the provider or it is the State through support, through subsidies. That is the question that needs to be addressed: who is the ultimate contributor to it? Is this a consumer plus subsidy, or is this a risk taken by an entrepreneur? That's the question of finding a balance. At the moment, the market has become what it is, perhaps there are general service packages that really go up and down with the stock market price. Perhaps if there is a new measure that allows for a much better priced service, it will provide some relief. Perhaps the solution to this system is a draft. But I think that first of all, we need to assess the outcome of the measures already taken, because today the measures are clearly under way. If you receive an invoice today, then there is a clear list of compensation for network charges, there is a possibility to go and apply for funds if there are problems with payment. But I'd say again that I'm still a market believer. I think the market offers solutions. Perhaps these solutions are not very light and very long-term, and for some time there may be a situation such that people are in shock, but certainly, if there is a financial capacity or a consistent capacity to manage the matter financially or profitably, then the market will respond to these high prices with its new investments and new volumes that will be placed on the market. I think in this place I'm still a market believer, like a lot of people here who thought for years that the market would regulate everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U38	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Glad to hear, of course, that you are a believer in the market, but today's high energy price is absolutely not linked to economic or market rules. On the contrary, it is entirely artificially created, and the reason for this is not even in these few connections with Finland, as you mentioned earlier, but is quite clearly in two conditions: one is the Nord Pool Stock Exchange, which, in the same way, is not subject to any market or economic rules, and the other is a CO2 quota system, which is just as artificially created and increases the price of our electricity. What kind of opportunity do you see so we can lower the price of electricity? These measures, which you mentioned here, which have been adopted by the government, are not really dealing with the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U40	Thank you, good questioner, very good question! I'm trying to give my position or my vision to the matter. You put it in like a number of aspects or several sides. I will start from this point on out that I think that everything is very simple in a market economy: there is supply, there is demand. Today you're talking about the high price, Nord Pool isn't working. But I don't remember two years ago, for example, when the market developed into a situation where the price was a negative sign, someone would have complained or not been happy and said that a very bad system, why money is paid after you consume electricity. This is a market functioning with a market principle: there are situations where there is a very high price and there are situations where there is a very low price. This is a market situation. Yes, of course, this situation is not [as good] at the moment when demand is high. The price is low when there are a lot of offers. But then this problem must be resolved, which I would put forward in such a way that the amount of electricity offered does not correspond to what current demand is. That is why this high price is very simple. Unfortunately, we live in a situation where our energy system is changing. This is changing rapidly and very dramatically and for a very simple reason. Estonia once decided to join the climate agreement and reduce CO2. It's not my decision, it's our joint decision. This is not the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs or of any political group. It is a consensual agreement that results from the fact that we are part of the European Union. Those decisions were made once and start talking about the fact that all this is a surprise for us is wrong. I would rather call for discussions on how we can cover our necessary volumes, how we can produce enough energy to cover our demand. And if we do that, if we can do that and answer that question, I would ask the following question: how can we do this in the most efficient way possible? How do we do it because we have [need] met, but we do it in the most efficient way possible, so we don't spend quite a lot of money. All of this leads to the fact that we need to find the answer to these two questions. You're saying today that we're setting a price, but what do we do in this situation when we go out of Nord Pool and we just don't have enough electricity on the market at some point if we just don't have connections? What do we do? Then we're going to shut down the entrepreneurs. These calls are not quite right either. We need to ensure that there is sufficient energy in the system, that there are production capacities that can produce this energy and that they do so as efficiently as possible, at a good price. Then all the problems and concerns will be solved. So I don't see any problem. But how to do that is the main topic that should be discussed in this hall or somewhere in the public, somewhere else. There are a number of measures to achieve this. The fact that our entire system of supply insurance is built on oil shale clearly no longer works. Oil shale can be used in the chemical industry, for other things. But the European Union clearly said that in our policies we are based on the fact that we no longer produce energy from oil shale, like coal. This is our reality, which we agreed on quietly or quietly and which we must go on with. You have to forget what was in the past, you have to see where we're going. And, unfortunately, if oil shale energy cannot be produced, you have to think about what are the following options: is it a nuclear power plant, is it gas, or what are these next steps? Or are there some kind of recordings? The wind blows, the sun produces, but it's at a certain time. There's no energy at night and with a quiet wind, but unfortunately, at a certain time when it's night and dark and the wind doesn't blow, our consumption is the highest. These are rather questions which, I think, need to be oppressed and debated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U41	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Sven Sester, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to speak in a few words on this bill. Since today we had a discussion about the content and the form in the Chamber, I would also like to speak on both the content and the form. With a few words of substance. Heir-Valdor has already actually mentioned the draft, but I repeat that there is a big difference here in this draft, especially in relation to the next item on the agenda, which also concerns the decision of the Riigikogu and which has been given to the Chamber by another party. And the true thing is that the Fatherland sees here and we are market believers, we have always said that we are market believers rather than additional flexibility, additional flexibility for small consumers. I also agree with the questions raised in this Chamber that the market has also artificially created components that are going to distort the market, mainly CO2. And we agree that the price of CO2 artificially placed on the market in order to crowd out fossil fuels from the market during the period and to move the market more to renewable energy sources has created a situation where the price of CO2, which was at some point EUR 5 or EUR 10, at one point it was EUR 20, the producer made calculations at one point with 25 to 30, has now reached EUR 80 to 90. And it is clear that, at such a price, it could be said that basically all fossil [fuel] producers have exited the market, they will not be able to work against the market, unless, of course, the market price is very high, which, by the way, has to be said, there have been periods. If the market price is already 200 euros and higher, then the producer of fossil fuel will also be able to produce. Our vision at this point is that we should also give an extra-market opportunity, and we do not see that the market should be lost, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this flexibility means that the electricity seller, as a universal service, would offer small customers the possibility to purchase electricity outside the market. And since CO2 has now been automatically added as a component, in order for this possibility to occur, this CO2 must therefore be compensated for by the electricity producer, and it cannot pass through or around it. And now, in turn, since it would be over-the-counter goods to exclude the manufacturer from being able, say, a wish for profit, we foresee that it must be coordinated with the Competition Authority. Of course, the producer has its own costs and also its own profit expectations. The question of what this profit expectation is certainly the focus of the Competition Authority. Looking at it as a complex, it provides an opportunity, on the one hand, to act as such in the market, but, on the other hand, it allows private small consumers to buy electricity outside the market under certain arrangements. This is crucial, especially given the situations we saw here a few months ago. This is the essence of this: we are creating an additional, flexible opportunity. Once again, I stress that the Competition Authority has a crucial role to play in this case. Because if the market itself regulates what is the price, then when we go outside the market, there must be an independent regulator who says: this price is now fair. This is also the reason why the Fatherland has clearly brought in that it must be coordinated with the Competition Authority. We have provided the government with a framework for how we would see it, but we have said to work out the reform agenda from these frameworks. And the government has a chance in this case... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U43	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U44	And then the government has a chance to tell us exactly how it's gonna be. And now a few words from the uniform. As our representative, Helir-Valdor Seeder, mentioned here, I repeat that. This situation, which is currently in this Chamber, is in reality shameful and outrageous. The Bureau took the draft into the procedure, and at the moment it took it into the procedure, he actually said that this draft could be dealt with, and that it would be possible to carry out different procedures, as our home and operating procedures provided for. He has two options: whether he rejects it, rejects the initiator of the draft, says that it is not possible to proceed with it under the law of the home and of the rules of procedure, or he says, yes, we can go on with it, and please deal with it. Now there's some kind of weird situation. It was forwarded by the Bureau to the Commission. And now, somewhere in the halfway-way movie, like "Lost in translation," we discover that if he's already in the process at the Commission, the officials will find that, oh-oh-oh, but in fact, in the law of the house and the rules of procedure, they're not supposed to be. Come on, there's some shit going on here! To be honest, in the Commission, we also talked about this. And the truth is, the Commission turned to the Isamaa Group on the question of whether we see the need and reason to change the draft. As initiators of the bill, we said that we did not see the need, we also explained why we did not see it. And now, just with force, because of the votes in democracy, the majority is the force, the bill is being amended. It's just embarrassing in that sense. Somewhere, a mistake has now been made in our system, in our technical system, in our formal system. Whether this is now a decision made by the board, it is likely that there has been a mistake if it had seen [in advance] that it should not go on like this, but somewhere it is. So, certainly, on the side of the Isamaa Group, we are protesting against it vocally, which we have said here today, too, and we will certainly pay attention to this if, for some reason today, we do not find support for it with further proposals already in the coming days. But once again, I hope it will be supported in the hall. I will repeat the contents once more over to all of you. This gives small consumers the opportunity to deliver at better prices on the electricity market and then buy goods on the electricity market when prices are high. This gives us the opportunity to have a so-called higher level of competition in this competition. And if you ask where the state would take the money, for example, to compensate producers for CO2, look at the CO2 revenue that has come to us today. So we are actually able to take this money as a source of cover, especially given that this is a political decision, whether we want to make such a decision or not to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U45	On behalf of the Socialists, Jevgeni Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Well, that text's no good. But the reform and reform of the electricity market could indeed be needed, but not on the basis of the principles ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland. Here, of course, a beautiful path from Mr Sester and many others about how small consumers must be protected, and indeed they should be protected, but our consumers should be protected against high electricity prices in a reasonable and legal way. Now, these three proposals do not respond to either one or the other of these two principles, either they are not legal or they are not reasonable. Firstly, indeed, European rules allow a certain number of consumers to supply energy on the electricity market outside the market; such an option exists. And indeed, some countries have entered the electricity market in such a way that they have excluded small consumers from it, which makes small consumers subject to different price regulation than the electricity market. The question is, do they get cheaper electricity because of it? This is debatable, of course, very much depends on the time perspective. As Mr Seeder mentioned, in fact, in most of the last almost decade of open electricity markets, the open electricity market has given our consumers significantly more favourable electricity than we would have had at regulated prices. Now, indeed, the shock or uncertainty in the energy markets over the last six months is likely to continue, also due to geopolitical circumstances that are well known to all of us. And therefore, it would certainly be worth working to ensure that the country has a plan to protect consumers. But now, more specifically, to these proposals. I will start at the end: it is proposed to pay off the CO2 quota costs to electricity producers. It is State aid and State aid, in which I cannot imagine how such State aid could be lawful. This treats electricity producers unequally. This means that those electricity producers that produce so-called low-carbon electricity do not receive this State aid because they have invested in their respective production capacities in order not to pay the quota. And these most polluting ones get the most. These State aid guidelines, which are currently in force, in the context of the Renewable Energy Directive, certainly do not provide such an opportunity that we will simply pay a share of its input costs to a single electricity producer. In this sense, it is certainly a fairer proposal that is to be discussed next: to go beyond the emissions trading system and the overall legal framework of the European Union. I do not support this proposal, I think it is a bad proposal, but it is certainly more honest. I'd like three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U47	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U48	The second point is quite interesting in the political power represented by Mr Sester: forcing companies to sell their goods and services at the price proposed by the State. Force them to sell at the price they propose! Mr. Sester himself was confused about what they've written down there. Indeed, it states here that, according to this proposal, the dominant electricity producer is obliged to sell electricity to the electricity sellers at the price approved by the Competition Authority. This is certainly very [interesting] in the sense that these economic policy experiments have undoubtedly been carried out in the history of the world, and in some countries businesses are still being forced to sell goods at regulated prices. The result is that they do not do this or go bankrupt. In this particular proposal, we are speaking in other words in reality, but we are talking about the state energy company, Eesti Energia, who should do this. Well, let's imagine that Eesti Energia is being forced to sell electricity, I don't know, 60 or 70 euros per megawatt-hour. During the summer period, when the electricity exchange price is 10, 15 and 20 euros for megawatt, all the plants of this company are standing, they are loss-making. And the financial results of this company are that they can make up for this loss in times of higher electricity prices. But now, on the proposal of the Fatherland, they are actually banned from working at profitable moments, forced to work at a loss in those moments, and forced, when an obligation is imposed, to actually sell this electricity to consumers at the price that the Competition Authority has proposed. Of course, we have seen here in recent decades that Estonia's energy is directly subsidised from the state budget, and the unreasonable subsidy of these national mammoths is one of the economic policy instruments that many countries have used, but in general, the experience is that it does not actually bring any benefit to the consumer in the long term. So this particular point is quite unexpected. Indeed, a party pursuing a right-wing economic policy would not have expected such a thing to force companies to sell their goods and services at regulated prices. So, as a whole, this proposal is both energy-politically and broadly unsuitable. There is no doubt that he can be presented as a heroic struggle for the interests of consumers, and as such he may even be popular, but in both legal and energy policy he is unfit. Once again, I certainly do not want to reduce here the need for us to actually need a plan for reforming the electricity market, so that, in the new heating period, we can really protect consumers more effectively, including systematically, not only with subsidies, in that sense, this initiative is absolutely right in itself. And it seems to me that, unfortunately, now that the acute energy price crisis, the electricity price crisis has begun to pass, the Government's will to seek these solutions has also decreased considerably, and this should not be allowed. We will still be able to bring about real change for the next period, that is what is needed, and that is what we could think about together. However, perhaps the proposals or really the frameworks Mr Sester was talking about should still be analysed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U49	Mr Sester, before I give you the floor, I need to clarify whether you want a procedure or if you want an answer. You have a chance for a rep, so press "Word" there, then you'll get a chance to recreate, because you've been mentioned. I suppose that's the real wish. Very good. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for leading me to the right path, which line or address I can bring out here with these hand marks! I would like to correct a few things and say, to put it mildly, that part of this previous speech was simply a mess. And if it's bullshit, you gotta regulate this shit, and you gotta clear it up. Half of the previous speaker spoke about how the country would like to say what the price will be in the future through this draft. The country says this is the price. No, no, not at all! In order for the previous speaker to understand the functioning of the market, I say no, not at all. Electricity producers are most likely to face different costs in generating electricity. Most likely. I don't think they have the same price, all of them. And our vision is that it is still compensated, or the price determined, on the basis of actual costs, and then on the basis of the profit expectations or returns that are really defined by the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority will look at the actual costs and take a look at their profit expectations and returns. It could be completely different. There are different producers in the electricity market and they do not have a single fixed price. One possibility is that the previous speaker simply did not read the draft submitted by the Isamaa Group, or the other is that he was just talking nonsense. Two options are in my vision. I thought I'd mention it, and I'd tell you for the record. No, certainly not, we do not see that there will be one or the other very specific price for this draft. Not at all! And I haven't mentioned any names to create a long debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U51	Despite whether you mentioned it or not, it was clear that you spoke of the previous speaker. The previous speaker was Jevgeni Ossinovski. But to the sadness of Mr Ossinovski, I must say that the rejoinder cannot, in turn, be said in accordance with our rules. Now you have to somehow be able to solve it outside the hall, who was talking nonsense and who was telling the truth. In this hall, this debate is still in place. Unfortunately, Evgeny, I can't give you reclining for the recreature. That's the story. That is our rules of procedure. Okay. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have come to this draft decision. There is exactly one of them: change the title of the draft and make corresponding drafting changes. This amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U52	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U53	Would you like to vote? Then we have to vote through it. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, who were away from the Chamber in the meantime, I would remind all of us that we are discussing draft 497 and we are currently reviewing amendments. This first amendment has been proposed by the lead committee and has been fully taken into account by the lead committee. This is what the Group of the Fatherland asked for to vote. I therefore vote on Amendment 1, which has been made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U54	The amendment was supported by 29 members of the Riigikogu, against 24. The amendment was supported. We have examined the amendments and are going to the proposal of the lead committee. The commission's proposal was for a final vote on draft 497. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the draft decision, I remind all of us. Since we have just carried out the vote, do I have to do the call again, or can we go to the vote? Looks like we can go to the vote. Therefore, I shall vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Fatherland Group 497. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U55	With the result of 24, against 29, the proposal was not supported. The draft is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U56	Okay. Our second item is the first reading of bill No 513 of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme to waitress, please. [[Martin Helme is asking for a report on the time.]] 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will come to you with a relatively similar plan from the opera that we have just discussed, but the previous one was, let's say, lightly light, we have a proposal that goes much further. I will then read to you briefly what our proposal is to the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu proposes that the Government of the Republic suspend the electricity market exchange in Estonia for at least a year and impose a regulated price and, in addition, suspend Estonia's participation in the CO2 trading system or ETS mechanism for at least a year. And now for the explanation. When we handed over this proposal in January of this year, the energy crisis in Estonia, well also in the world and in Europe had been going on for months. Very painful bills had arrived for people, but the panic that is currently raging since the outbreak of the Ukrainian war was still coming. What is happening to our gas prices, our electricity prices, our fuel prices, has, in the intervening month, become considerably worse. And it is clear that this situation is getting tougher and harder, which means that our government cannot simply stand idly by and watch a large part of society just impoverish. And that is why we have made these proposals. Now all of this, all of this increase in electricity, fuel and gas prices has led to the most severe price increase of our independence, or at least the worst price increase of this century. We also see food prices rising. All of this plunges into poverty tens of thousands of people who have managed to cope well with themselves so far. And the main drivers of price increases are precisely energy prices. We can see how these price increases have already moved on from there to other areas. We are facing a real metastasis of price increases, and everything is becoming more expensive. People's purchasing power has already fallen in reality, despite rapid wage increases or pension increases, people's actual purchasing power is decreasing. The government's activities in the field of electricity prices are particularly important here. If, in the case of gas and petroleum products, Estonia is largely dependent on imports and prices on the world market, it is precisely electricity that we produce almost entirely ourselves, sufficient quantity to meet our needs and the vast majority of this production is also very important in the state-owned company Eesti Energia. In addition to causing the socio-economic catastrophe of our inhabitants, the increase in electricity prices will also lead to a sharp increase in the cost of companies. This means, for many companies, either a cessation of production or bankruptcy, or a cost carry-over at the price of a product or service, which in turn leads to a further sharp increase in prices. And if this continues, we will be faced with a sharp rise in unemployment, with a sharp fall in taxation both on labour taxes and on VAT, and on exports to the economy as a whole. It is also quite clear already that the costs of municipalities have increased, as the number of people in need of assistance has increased sharply. So what's our proposal? The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is proposing to the government to stop immediately and, in fact, the month that has been delayed here has been the evil trade in electricity on the stock market and to impose a state regulated price on electricity as a strategic commodity and essential to the vital livelihood of the population. All the exclamations we've heard here, that the market economy and we want to get back to the collective season, no just silly talk, embarrassing talk. There are still a number of products and services in Estonia that are regulated at a state price, for example, we clearly have district heating at a state regulated price. We also regulate the monopoly market, the cartel and the monopoly market, we have laws for that and we have the public authorities that regulate it for that. And it should not be forgotten that ten years ago, the price of electricity in Estonia was also regulated nationally. And the other half of this whole thing also needs to be repeated, that the production of electricity in Estonia is actually in the hands of a monopoly company that owns the state. If, according to Estonian law, we already have 40% of market domination, then Eesti Energia has twice as much market control, so it is essentially a monopoly. And he's a state-owned, 100% state-owned monopoly. When we are talking about some kind of market mechanism here, forgive everyone who has even remotely smelled something of the basic truths of a market economy, realises that a state monopoly does not operate in a free market, that is not the price of any market if it is allowed to operate freely. So it's not a story that price regulation is, I don't know, a desire for socialism or communism. On the contrary, this is to prevent abuse of monopolies. According to our reasoning, the participation of Nord Pool in the electricity trading system is not economically justified and continuing it will have disastrous consequences for the population, business and the state budget and municipalities. We all know that the cost of electricity generation at Narva plants has been stable for years. In fact, when we do the inflation calculation, [we can see that] oil shale prices have been basically the same for 20 years and the production price the same way. And if we exclude profit and CO2 quotas from the electricity production of Eesti Energia, depending on the boilers and some other variable costs, the cost of this electricity, the cost per unit, is about 20 euros per megawatt-hour. It's worth remembering that number. I have been the general meeting of Eesti Energia; Eesti Energia is subject to the Minister of Finance; I know these numbers. Perhaps if we sell electricity here at 200 or 400 euros per megawatt-hour, the cost of the same electricity, the cost of production is 20 euros. And where does that money go from there? Well, that's the way it goes with CO2 quotas, it goes with the dividend, but to a large extent it just goes beyond the border. The state cannot allow the monopoly to take a price of 10 to 50 times higher than its own production price, and this is where we will be given lectures on how we have a market economy. Well, it just doesn't add up. The task of the state must be to ensure a cheap and stable energy supply, and for that we have all the means available. And it is not the responsibility of the State to coerce or bankrupt its companies and private individuals through the state company and then take dividends through that state company. Well, I am convinced that this year's dividends in Eesti Energia are record high. If in previous years, before the corona, Estonia Energia paid a dividend to the state budget in the order of 50 million euros per year, then we can definitely multiply this number by the current electricity prices. And this is essentially an additional tax on electricity for the people of Estonia. Now, in parallel to this, as I have already said, a large part of the price of electricity actually represents the price of CO2. In no way is CO2 exactly the same as there is a market price, CO2 is taken out of the ceiling of some kind of commodity, a fictitious commodity in substance, and the purchase of these goods has been made mandatory under a completely arbitrary right. Somewhere in the Commission, some officials figure out that we commit these industries to buying CO2 quotas, we don't put it on them, we give them some kind of free quota, we don't give it to them. And the amount of CO2 that will be traded on the market is also taken from the ceiling. If the Commission feels that the CO2 quota or the price of CO2, the unit price is too low, then simply a certain amount will be deleted from the trick, i.e. a deficit will be created and at the same time the price will be higher. And if it still seems that the price per unit of CO2 is too low, the circle of companies that have to buy this quota will be expanded. So we have a two-way administrative pressure on the rise in the price of the CO2 quota. And of course he'll rise. In addition, we trade carbon quotas not only for institutions that need this carbon quota, but for banks, investment funds, insurance funds, everyone who knows how to move money. It's a huge speculative business. So speaking of having some kind of carbon trading system, they're essentially trying to catch fools. And there seem to be a lot of these fools. So that's what I'm saying: Don't you think they're gonna take the money away from the fools? We do not think we should be fools, and we do not think that we should give this money away. As a result, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to the government to immediately suspend Estonia's participation in the CO2 trading system, or ETS-system, which is then the emission trading system, as it is called in English. This system, as I have just explained, does not represent a market-based mechanism to reduce CO2 in any way; it does not have the effect of actually reducing the emission of CO2 into the atmosphere. It's just an arbitraryly assembled arbitration and administrative scheme that pretends to have made up by politicians of the quantity of goods offered on the market, where an ever-expanding circle of companies is imposed by a national obligation to buy it, that it has an impact on the climate. There is no impact on the climate, zero impact on the climate, it only has an impact on our wallet. And because of that, we think we should leave this system. We have heard that today's government has admitted from the mouth that this system is not working well and that this system needs to be reformed and that predictability must somehow be achieved and that it must somehow actually contribute to climate objectives. Everything is a very beautiful story, just as long as this system has not been reformed, let us not participate in this system. Then, when he's reformed, let's see if he's reasonable or not reasonable, and then we'll decide what we're doing. So the CO2 system is, in fact, an extremely important factor in creating this whole energy crisis and should be abandoned. Now, you are saying that all of this is somehow contrary to the European Union's regulations. Well, I do not want to go too far into the depths of the European Commission's own violations of the Treaties every time they need it. Take it easy! For example, let us take this, one of the most recent examples of how the payment of European money to Poland and Hungary for some fictitious or alleged violations of the rule of law was stopped. Well, excuse me! The principles of the rule of law have been violated in every European country during the Coronary period more than anyone can count since the compulsory vaccination, ending with the introduction of a curfew class by a government decision without any legal basis, the restrictions on movement between countries, well, everything. These principles of the rule of law and the treaties have been violated here whenever necessary, a paragraph is found in the Treaties or some kind of directive. Our officials, I have experienced myself, are relatively clever and talented in interpreting euro regulation. Unfortunately, they usually interpret it against or against Estonia's economic freedom and competitiveness. But if they are given a corresponding task, they will also find sections that will at least temporarily stop participation in these systems. And even if we have an argument with the Commission about this, it will take years. Well, let's say, the average dispute with the European Commission lasts three to five years. If you go to court after that, it might take you as long as you do. What we have in five, seven or ten years is the energy market or the carbon trading system that knows how to predict it today. But in that time, we'll all be poor. So let's save this money for lawyers who argue with the Commission. In the end, and this is the most important, we simply have to say that you are very sorry, dear friends in this Chamber, we are responsible to the people of Estonia, we are not responsible to the Commission. We do not receive our mandate from the European Commission, from any official. We receive our mandate from the Estonian people. Our task is to stand up for the Estonian people to have a good course of action and not to be poor. And if it is necessary to choose between whether we are pointing the finger at what the directive says, or if we are following what our constituents are saying to us, then I think there is no question at all about what the path is going to be. One more aspect, maybe. We are clearly proposing to the government to develop the necessary mechanisms. If the law needs to be amended, the law needs to be amended. If it is found that it is possible to move forward without amending the law, I would like to point out here how resourceful, talented and administratively bypassing Parliament today has been in the case of all kinds of corona restrictions and restrictions on fundamental human freedoms, that is. But the ability to develop and implement this plan is still the executive power, not the parliament. And that is why Parliament will only give a clear guideline to the government, and the government will then have to develop it. So that's our plan. I think the government shouldn't delay a day with this plan. Every day, which it stretches, leads to further impoverishment and difficulties for the people of Estonia. And that is why we hope that Parliament will support it today. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U58	And now the questions. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question about the technical condition and capacity of our oil shale power plants. If we imagine that, for any reason, be it military activities, be it a diversion, be it wind shortages, our wind farms do not provide us with enough energy, will our power plants near Narva be technically in this condition, they have enough reserve capacity to be able to permanently cover our independent electricity needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U60	Yeah, well, who's gonna raise the dog's tail, if not the dog himself? I would like to remind you here of the previous government. When our party went to the government in spring 2019, it was immediately put on the table as electricity prices were cheap at that time and the price of CO2 increased steadily, with the proposal to close two running energy blocks in Narva, to concentrate in the size range of 1000 to 1500 energetics and miners. As a result, Eesti Energia's production capacity of oil shale electricity would have fallen to about this level, which covers roughly half of Estonia's peak consumption. Estonia's peak consumption is about 1600 megawatts per hour. As a general meeting, i.e. a representative of the owner, I gave Eesti Energia an obligation to maintain reserve capacity at least at the average level of consumption in Estonia, 1000 megawatts per hour. So they didn't shut down these blocks or lay off that amount of people, yes, in some way there were layoffs, but they didn't shut it down. And I have to tell you that in Narva it will be remembered. Very well remembered. Now, if these blocks had been closed, it would have been dark in Estonia this winter in December, because we would not have had the ability to power ourselves. We could not buy this capacity from neighbouring countries because they also had peak consumption, and then it would have been dark in Estonia. Currently, Estonia is able to cover... If we look at these data, all of them are available, how much electricity is produced in Estonia and how much electricity is consumed in Estonia at the same time, then electricity is produced in Estonia at all times in the same order of magnitude as we consume. It is noteworthy that Eesti Energia produces less than the peak consumption every day. We all understand why he's doing this: he's making an electrical deficit in order to raise the price. In fact, there should be pure political supervision by a representative of the government. [It should] be made clear to the Council and to the executive board, without any dry matter or butts, that there is a need to ensure that electricity is oversupplyed rather than undersupplyed in order to suppress the price. And in addition to that, right, electricity is produced in about the same amount as we consume ourselves. But at the same time, we sell out a very large amount of this electricity produced in Estonia, and at the same time we buy in. There are different reasons why it's done, but basically making money is the name of the thing that it's done. But the short answer is yes, with today's capacities, we have the capacity to produce the controlled capacities to cover our own needs, and that certainly must be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U61	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U62	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, ever since we filed a draft of this decision to the Government of the Republic, time has passed. The whole situation has changed in the world today and is already changing very much, including the paradigm of all energy. We must quickly rethink the situation, it is clear to all people who can think. Do you see the capacity of the current government to bring their energy activities into line with the harsh realities that are actually developing throughout the world and in some parts of the world? If this ideological CO2 agenda were to be removed from there, what could be our positive perspective in the difficult situation the world is heading towards?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U63	Well, I think our positive perspective is pretty obvious. Estonia has been, say, independent of energy or sufficient to produce its own energy, and until a few years ago we were also clearly exporting electricity. Estonia has both know-how and so-called hardware to be equipped with energy, and not only electricity. Oil shale electricity has basically served us well for a hundred years, and oil shale oil has been added to it. Together with oil shale, we actually have the ability to produce gas during this process. So we have the ability. And if we wanted to make another investment in this chain, or create a refinery, we would also be able to produce ourselves all the petrol we own, our own mineral resources, our own educated and well-paid workforce. A large part of this industry is directly state-owned and, as a result, it is, in fact, under the control of the State, clearly controlled by the government, so-called price policy and all other policies. Despite the many foolishness that has been done in Estonia, including in the field of energy, we have managed to prevent the worst and we have the opportunity to develop it further. Well, I can't help but remember the terrible gnashing and howling of teeth, which was when I, as Minister of Finance of the previous government, pushed through the investment of a new oil shale oil plant, a EUR 125 million capital injection into Eesti Energia to produce oil shale oil. At the time, it was made clear to me that all of this was loss-making. Well, at today's oil prices, it is still a very big source of revenue, and it must be stressed that this revenue is virtually all export revenue. Here, years earlier, these investment decisions could have been made and increased further. We have the ability to cover our own electricity needs. In fact, we are capable of producing a very large part of our essence oil-based or oil-like liquid fuel ourselves. If we develop this capability, we have the ability to produce our own gas. And all of that should be done. But now we come to the first part of this question: whether today's government wants, knows, is able to think in these categories at all. Can't see it, can't see it! And we saw opposite, still very fanatic reverse desires. What did today's government declare when it came to power? The first thing he honked was that there was an order to stop producing oil shale electricity in Estonia, I don't remember whether it was there by 2030 or 2035. You still have to put those people to shame right now, who told that story a year ago. You gotta forget about this! But don't forget who said that story a year ago. These were the ministers of the Reform Party, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, who screamed about how to get out of oil shale electricity production as a matter of urgency. No more vermin than talking like that! Yes, I think that both the energy crisis that existed before the war in Ukraine and the inevitable consequences of the war in Ukraine will certainly be subject to a re-evaluation of energy policy. I hope that there will be a re-evaluation, both in Estonia and outside Estonia, in the European Commission, which is the root of this evil, the evil root of all this wrong and harmful and hateful energy policy, in its green reverse spirits. It is already said that nuclear energy is also a green energy, and I agree that nuclear energy does not produce CO2. There is talk of how gas is, however, such a sensible form of energy, producing the least CO2. This reality has also begun to affect those ideologists who have so far believed that it is possible to do politics and to promote the economy by ignoring reality. But it all comes in terrible pain and kicking and dragging and dragging. It is easier to replace the government than to hope that this government will pursue the right policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U64	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have such a fundamental question that it is very important for the country to function successfully, that it has a monopoly on strategic issues, and I think that this includes electricity. It should be controlled and balanced by the state in order to ensure stability and resilience for businesses and the population. However, the fact that we are currently buying electricity through the stock market, I do not think that this security and strategy is in any way being maintained, because, on the basis of market manipulations, and also, let us say, the interests of large companies in different countries, it is possible to manage our economies and also to prevent development through the emergence of exchange prices. Is my approach correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U66	Yeah, in my introductory speech, I was talking about the stock exchange being no stock exchange. It is still a clearly misleading term for this matter, Nord Pool is not an actual stock exchange. There is no such reasonable price formation due to the actual relationship between supply and demand. The reasons are very different, I would say, the regulatory framework is the main reason for this, but also the transmission capacities and, of course, the total manipulation. If it was seen here in August that there was a serious energy crisis in the autumn and winter, well, I would have imagined that the heads of both Elering and Eesti Energia would take action, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance would look them in the eye and say that now make sure that you do not have any planned repairs in the cold period ahead. But it went a whole different way. Both Elering's transmission networks and the different blocks of Eesti Energia were in planned repair at the coldest time. Well, that's manipulation. Planned for repair in the cold period.. it's manipulation. This is an increase in the market price by knowingly creating a deficit. This is just one example of how the market is manipulated. Actually, you should've rolled your heads after things like that. There are, and there are, examples. Coming to the first half of the question, or to its main point, yes, I am absolutely sure that energy is a strategic sector, energy must be under national control, and I am also of the opinion that this energy must be at a state regulated price. And all the stories we've been told about how electricity has actually been cheaper than before since we went to the electricity exchange, it's just not true. It's just not true! With regulated electricity prices in Estonia, electricity was cheaper than after the exchange, that is a fundamental mathematical fact. You can pick out some periods where it was cheaper, but if you take the whole ten-year period, make a weighted average there, the electricity has been more expensive than it was at a regulated price. It's perfectly understandable, there's nothing illogical about it. There's nothing going on these days without electricity. Nothing's happening without electricity! We are told here how we really need to switch to electric cars, but the surge in electricity consumption that awaits us when it is actually done with the network and production is not ready for this now. It takes tens of billions to invest. Where's the investment money coming from? From the consumer's pocket. This can only cost more both network charges and electricity generation prices. So this whole green turn ideology is hugely expensive. And justified by what? It was justified by the fact that Estonia produces 0,005% of the world's CO2 emissions. Honestly, who's gonna notice, or what's that gonna change? If we agree at all, and I am not sure that it has been agreed, that CO2 is the main evil root that we have to fight, then it is criminal to shut down our own power generation for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U67	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The great green turn of the current government, with which many prices in different areas have risen and which has a very serious impact on each person's wallet, inevitably leads to thinking about its real need. What level does Estonia have in this pollution of the environment compared to other countries? Is the situation with CO2 so critical in Estonia that there is a need for such an aggressive green turn and the accompanying impoverishment of people and possibly for the future to make the country poor, to throw it into poverty? Is it so necessary? Is Estonia at this level with its environment and CO2?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U69	No, of course not. There are probably two aspects here. The first is this absolute body, which I have already mentioned, that our absolute body is completely undisputed, both on a European scale and on a global scale, completely irrelevant. This amount isn't gonna change anything. So there's nothing to worry about in that sense. The second thing is that if we look at these agreements, the international agreements that have been made, the Kyoto Treaty, the Paris Treaty and the European Union's own targets, then Estonia has been one of the most advanced countries in Europe in reducing CO2 emissions. If we use the year 1990 as a basis for which Estonian statistics may have been, say, distorted, the Soviet industry was still inside it, or the year 2005, which is the next so-called reference year, then the targets have been set for how many percentages we have to reduce accordingly compared to the reference years. Estonia is clearly one of the few countries in Europe, I don't know, I think seven countries are in Europe or five countries that have met these goals, no Estonia is one of the most advanced here. We don't have a problem. If nothing is done at all, we are still meeting the objectives of the EU's 'Fit 55'. There's no need. But now the question is, why are we doing this? Well, the answer's two-fold again. First of all, of course there has been such a... Well, that's ideology. In fact, it is not even ideology; it is actually a religious sect. It's like rational arguments don't matter here anymore. This whole green mindset is more like a religious sect. And a lot of people have registered in this sect. The other reason is that when we talk about people paying crazy, companies paying crazy, it doesn't go into space, nobody makes that money. All of the grass is a massive process of redistribution of wealth in society. Massive redistribution of wealth in many ways. First, of course, from poorer people to very small, very chosen, long figured it out and planned for a group that are already very rich today and are planning to become much richer. Secondly, raising money from the private sector to the public sector, raising massive money, raising wealth from the private sector to the public sector. Thirdly, a massive increase in money between regions. We can clearly see how, in the European Union's dimension of the eastern Member States, wealth will be raised to the western Member States along with this whole green turn. Here we are talking about hundreds of billions, maybe trillions, depending on how long we take, money, redistribution of wealth under the name of a green turn. And we're all told that if you're not willing to pay, you bastards, you're hostile or harmful to Mother Earth. Mother Earth has nothing to do with this. The wallet has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U70	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There was hope that electricity prices would be cheaper in spring and summer. The effects of the war have now increased and today the leaders of Finnish energy companies are warning against the new shock of electricity prices linked to the same situation in Ukraine. The news of the war is that yesterday the price of electricity went back to EUR 500 for a megawatt-hour. In view of all the price increases that are just taking off, we cannot afford a government in Estonia that does not stand for the survival of Estonian people and Estonian entrepreneurs. And I'm asking you about that time window. Assuming that we have a functioning and decision-making government, how quickly can it be possible to implement all these proposals, what is set out here in our draft decision? What could be a window of time? If we really had a government that dared to decide and stand up for the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia, in what time could we see these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U72	Basically, I'm guessing we're talking weeks. Of course, there is a need to do a preliminary work. There is a need to clarify a legal framework; there is a need to prepare some decisions; perhaps there is a need to restructure things. We saw what a bunch could come out if they made the overlegged. We saw this in the case of electricity price compensation measures. Here we need to take these days or weeks to prepare the matter properly, but in principle this is a political decision and there is no need for any long transitional period following the implementation of this political decision. With great concern, I look exactly the same way as this war makes things considerably worse. And now it is very important why our proposal is what it is. Of course, the fact that today is compensated and today's government extended this compensation scheme by a month, well, that's putting a patch on the wound. But first, it is a very expensive solution from the perspective of the state budget, and second, it is a temporary solution. The best solution is still to suppress this price. So we do not have to support anyone with social assistance or compensation, we do not have to give money to companies, we do not have to give money to people through municipalities, but this price is low, this price is affordable. Maybe if we can bring down the price of electricity enough, it'll help by that. We can't control the price of oil and gas. We still have to make up for it. The solution is not that we are endlessly dealing with some sort of imposition. The solution is that we take away the root cause of this price and drive it down. I don't think that sounds at all right now. It is not obvious that we have a government today that has even begun to think about this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U73	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In this Riigikogu, we constantly process different views of the European Union, the European Commission and Estonia on the European Union's [documents], where one of the main features is to start taxing everyone and everything and to raise interest rates so that only a group of entrepreneurs or entrepreneurship, supported by a group, can receive loans at a favourable price in the future, at any rate. In a situation where Germany, which has been one of the leaders of the green turn, says today that it is necessary to continue with its coal industry at some point in the process of prolonging the use of nuclear energy, does it not seem like a very, very hypocritical situation that we are still pounding on Estonia's positions today all the time that interest must be favourable and the loan only available to those who do some sort of greening objectives? Doesn't that seem very hypocritical to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U75	First, it is hypocritical; second, it is extremely stupid and harmful. I look with complete anguish at the way in which the greening is really being pushed through in the banking sector as well. Once again, it is ideologically taken out of the ceiling or, let us say, the dogmatically imposed on financial institutions to monitor that borrowers also fulfil social and environmental policy tasks or objectives. If you make borrowing money in such a way that it no longer takes into account whether or not it will be earning back, but considering that ideological goals are being carried out, these financial institutions will not be able to remain profitable on a long run or even on a medium run. I guess these financial institutions have been held up here with money print and less interest and other things, but it can't survive on a long run. And I don't really understand whether people don't understand it or if people don't care about it, or if people have figured out a scheme that they're gonna make a good profit before they all blow up. But it can't end well. The fact that you commit banks to providing loans not according to whether the company that asks for the loan is economically capable and profitable, but according to whether it makes transgender awareness days and supports a variety of non-profit institutions, it cannot survive. This economic system cannot survive. We can feel it right now. High electricity prices, high fuel prices, high gas prices are already a sign that this economic system, which we have been around for more than ten years, is getting jealous. We're already paying for these wrong decisions. And if it continues, these wrong decisions will become more and more expensive. There will be mass destruction of wealth, mass destruction or destruction of capital. And, of course, this is what we see in the European Union all the time, how the Eastern natives have a duty to meet all the demands impeccablely, but the smartest people who came up with these rules on the west side, they found themselves with this hole or the exception, or in some sort of scheme, the incentive scheme, how not to actually meet the requirements that we are being burdened with here. It's generally quite cruel and brazen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U76	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! As we have seen, on television, the Commissioner for Energy, who has left us in the First Studio, [who said that] will put an end to the discrimination that oil shale and coal will be re-used and everything. In short, it's his story. That's great. But I've been really upset about one thing in the background. In fact, the EKRE has been accused of Russianism and Russian economics and even of contributing to all its russification. But, in fact, today's signals show that all this payment for the green economy has taken place from that side. Just by the Russians. Is there any way you can comment on that? So I don't really know who the agents are here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U78	Well, if he did, these agents would be exposed. But in a way, they reveal themselves. The fact that the Russian war machine is held up by German consumers, buying Russian gas every day in Germany, and still buying Russian gas today, is a fact. When Trump resigned, he was an American energy exporter, produced shale gas, produced shale oil, and supplied himself and was able to even export a small quantity. And today, under the aegis of green policy, let's say, in a year under the leadership of Biden, America has again become an importer of oil, and much of this oil is imported from Russia. The Americans are currently paying off this war in the gas station in Ukraine. So if you ask why the price of electricity is expensive, why the price of gas is expensive, why the price of oil is expensive, the answer is that the last ten to fifteen years, at least since the economic crisis of 2009, combined with the massive introduction of the economic crisis, the banking crisis and the green regulation, have not been invested in production capacity, fossil fuel production capacity. Ten years have not been invested. Great Britain produced the gas during Margaret Thatcher's time to meet its own needs, now it is again an importer of gas, for a long time, because a fundamental green decision was taken: the North Sea gas fields are not being developed. Germany was able to cover its energy needs largely with its nuclear plants for years. And nuclear plants don't produce CO2. However, it was decided in Germany that nuclear plants should be shut down. So where do you get your electricity? Russian gas produces electricity with gas turbines. Who's gonna benefit? Russia will benefit. The green turn will benefit Russia. And that's exactly what it is. So who's the Russian agent here? Those who want Estonia to be energy independent, to produce its own energy, would be able to be energy independent with their own raw materials, with their own workers, with their own factories, with state-owned plants? Or those who say we're going to shut everything down right now, don't invest another cent in it, we're going to die out of this industry, and there's something coming from somewhere? Come on, come on! Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, that's exactly where it's coming from. Well, the Soviet Union basically infiltrated totally Greenpeace and other radical left-wing green activists' organisations in the West, which is clear from the 1980s and 1990s. But the people who threw brick cops and oil company offices in the '80s didn't disappear from politics. These people today sit in the European Commission as Commissioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U79	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U80	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Good waitress! I have a bit of a follow-up to the previous question, but more specific. As we know, energy independence is a security issue and, of course, security is particularly important in the current situation, even the main objective. I ask you this: if we forget this weird green turn and we really act rationally, focusing on achieving energy independence, and at the same time keeping energy prices cheap, as proposed in this draft, and we will also stop the carbon trading system, how long it would take us to achieve energy independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U81	Thank you. Well, basically, you have to tell the difference between electricity, gas and oil, right? We're basically producing an appropriate amount of electricity for our needs. If there's windy weather, we're gonna make it so much. And actually, there's a problem here. When we are told that our high electricity price solution is wind energy, it is actually the opposite. What caused the same proposal made in 2019 to shut down the two blocks of Narva was that we had generated enough wind power. As the wind blows, there will be a huge amount of very cheap electricity coming into the market, and it will then push out of the market the electricity that is so-called base power, which will always have the same price. And if you're out of the market for months, or you're out of the market for days, your calculations will change. In a sense, if we think this way, that while we have wind and Narva stations are standing, and we subsidise this wind through the price of our electricity, at a really crisp price, we will do so in the form of a renewable charge, so as not to shut down these Narva stations, because we need them in winter, we actually have to pay a double price in winter, otherwise this production of oil shale electricity will not come out economically. And in this sense, even more wind [usage] disbalances our electricity balance, our production balance. It creates even more sharp fluctuations and market bubbles and periods of economic inefficiencies in the controlled capacity, which actually push this managed capacity out of the market at all times. Now, a separate subject is, of course, oil and petrol. We all know this old song that no silver, no gold found in the land. In fact, both silver and gold are found in concentrations that are not very high, but oil is especially well found in our land. Estonia is an oil state. In fact, Estonia is an oil country! Oil fuel oil produced from shale is essentially the same as oil. Here now depends on how to process him, to what level of purity to process him. But basically, we're capable of producing oil ourselves, and we're capable of producing quite a lot. If we want to increase this volume, it is a matter of a few years in order to significantly increase these volumes. And if we did a refinery, we'd be able to produce gasoline. True, because of certain chemical properties, this gasoline has its own problems, is unstable, and is of varying quality. But basically, we'd be able to make gas ourselves. This will require another investment decision of EUR 100 to 150 million for the refinery. And I'm sure it'll take a few years, but we'll be able to do it. The same is true of [gas]. We're producing a very small amount of gas ourselves right now. In essence, it is a so-called oil shale oil production residue, which is heated by Narva plants or by VKG itself and then mixed with oil shale to reduce the amount of CO2. If we were to make readjustments there or set a separate objective of producing gas in considerable quantities, we would be able to produce a considerable amount of our own gas needs. This requires a very clear decision on industrial policy, substantial investments, we are talking about hundreds of millions. But we have this know-how, we have this raw material and we have these people, we actually have working companies, some of which are state-owned and some are not state-owned that can all do it. So, especially given what is happening in the area of security in the world, I think it would be absolutely obvious that we are taking this course.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U82	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U83	Good manager! Dear waitress, We tabled this proposal in January, and today is a completely different reality, a war situation. And my wider question is: is it worth discussing today's green tea and quota trade and all these constructions in the European Union? Do you have any information that this has already ended in fact, even though it hasn't been officially stated? And what is the meaning of this proposal, precisely in the current war situation, if the gas, which should be such an interim phase of the transition to the green turn, comes from the aggressor? The same is true for oil, if these prices can easily rise to EUR 200.300. I'm talking about oil.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U84	The Roman Senate still came together after the Roman Empire had fallen. Do not underestimate the European Commission's ability to live in its ivory tower even during the war and after the war, when there are only cockroaches left. They've isolated themselves. The whole of the European Union's project in DNA has a fundamental principle: political decisions must be isolated from the opinion of the people. Thanks to this, all this horrible helve has been made possible in the first place and this constantly federalizing political mechanism. John Kerry, former American Foreign Minister and former presidential candidate and long-term senator, recently announced, I think last week: this Ukrainian war is one bad thing, an eternal bad thing, it takes attention of the need to deal with the green turn. Humans still have priorities in place. The fact that children and women are going to die is all a bad thing, but not because children and women are going to die, but because they won't talk about a green turn anymore. I am not sure at all that the voice of reason will come and continue to sound. It is precisely because of this that action is needed here on the ground and, de facto, it is necessary to make the green turns obsolete. De facto! We are not going to discuss at all; the Commission should do its own directives and regulations and things and discuss what it wants. In the real world, the Member States, the governments that are responsible to their voters, make the necessary decisions. If they come from Brussels to pick up this real world, they will. If they don't, we won't feel sorry for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U85	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, According to the annual report of Eesti Energia, the profit of Eesti Energia has increased 57.5% in 2021 compared to 2020. It's an absurd increase in profits in every business. This is total space, this is madness! Is there some kind of logical, rational, rational explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U87	Logical and rational is, rational, I don't know. If we compare the electricity price that we all paid as private individuals or as entrepreneurs in 2020, when the electricity price was somewhere around EUR 20 to 25, with the second half of 2021, when the price had increased several times, then everything is understandable. Eesti Energia's profit has increased by the fact that the price of electricity is more expensive, considerably more expensive. I'm guessing the revenue figures for 2022 will also make separate records. In fact, it is a question for all of us, a question for the government: why do we have to? [This is] a state-owned monopoly company. Why do we have to pay them that money? It is no consolation that this money will reach the state budget. We could just raise some kind of random tax, VAT or, I don't know, income tax, social tax, and say, look, the next 100 million or 50 million came back to the state budget. Whoo-hoo! But why? Do we agree? I don't agree. In fact, it would be sufficient for the owner to say that a different way of doing his business plan is necessary. You don't fix Auvere in the winter and it's already cheaper, it's easier for people. Of course, there will also be less dividend in the state budget, which is undoubtedly very damaging in some people's view, because the sacred event of moving towards budgetary balance will then be a small setback.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U88	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I once had the opportunity to look at the strategic documents of the various countries in the field of energy economy. And it was striking that the basic documents of the Russian Federation, which concerned the energy economy, were all different from similar European documents. The energy economy in Russia is directly concerned with security.. both stocks, trade, infrastructure, everything. This also explains their thinking, but it also shows the importance of the energy economy. My question is a little forward-looking. Has Estonia made a mistake and should correct this error so that the energy economy is in the documents that describe our security policy as well as the state defence policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U90	Yeah. If he's not there now, that's a big mistake. If we think for a moment what is happening in the real world, what is happening in real life, what is happening in those cities that are currently surrounded by electricity by Russia in Ukraine, there is no water, there is no heating. And right up there, there's no cure, there's no food. Everything starts with electricity supply, and it is absolutely essential for the population to survive. And if the state is simply cynically milking money into the state budget on this essential thing, for the functioning of the economy, for the livelihood of the population, for the security of the population, we have gone wrong in the country. In fact, electricity in particular, but also, of course, other energy carriers, must be strategically controlled by the state. The State must ensure that they are supplied and must ensure that they are supplied at a reasonable price. We're not talking about paying off. We are not talking about the fact that Eesti Energia should sell electricity below cost price, as today pig sellers are selling their pig meat kilos. We are talking about investments and materials, wages and a small dividend within this EUR 20. And it's still going on. But they're selling 10 to 20 times more expensive for money. State-owned company, dominant company as a monopoly. This is actually unacceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U91	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! Energy security and food security - one is highly related to the other. We've been talking about a green turn. It seems to me that at the moment there is a situation where, under the green turn sign, a person is the only one left out of protection in the natural environment. Entrepreneurship, especially small business, is disappearing. If this goes on, if we can't bring down energy prices, what about food security? Milking needs energy, drying grain needs energy, all the prices of inputs are energy-related. Our farmers are almost the least beneficiaries in Europe. Even where support for our producers is the competence of a nation state, our farmer usually does not have enough money, that is historical truth. In particular, this crisis is currently in pig farming. I very much hope that we will not have any such crisis. But if there is a crisis in our own home, what about food security in the context of energy security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U93	Yeah, it's totally true. When you think about what helped the people of Estonia survive the war, [save] hunger in World War II, it was that we still had a very large farm production. And, well, there was no electricity in those farms in the '30s, in the '40s. So they managed it all on their own. Today, when we think about food production, especially in Estonia, there are countries where this picture is different, Poland, Austria, there is much more small production than we do, we have large production, mostly large production. There are large farms, 600-800 cows on the farm, right, large hogs, and also grain producers are generally large producers. The main part of Estonian food production still comes from large companies, large companies, all of which are highly mechanised, highly mechanised and of course on the surface of electricity. Both milking and drying [fruit] are examples, but here we can move on. You've been, and I've been to farms that basically run a farm from a computer. It controls the feed communities and the supply and feeding of water, and everything else. If we lose electricity or if this electricity is not reliable, flashes, swings, sometimes it is, sometimes it is not, it is not for days, then the next stage is that we are starving. In the main areas of grain production, meat production, Estonia can manage self-sufficiency, produces enough to cope with self-sufficiency. Not with pigs anymore. But if the electricity goes away or becomes so expensive that you can no longer produce, or become so expensive that this product becomes so expensive that you can no longer sell, then the next stage is hunger literally. This is something that people in our welfare society today can't even imagine. And it's not like we're panicking, let's say panic shopping buys out the shelf, but you come back in a week and the shelf's full again. We need to understand the central significance of electricity, the reasonably priced electricity for all life in Estonia, and also agriculture, among other things, well, that is where everything begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U94	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Martin! The 13th day is now underway in the [new] phase of the widespread attack of the Russian-Ukrainian war, which lasted for eight years. It has already been shown to have a drastic impact on the energy economy as a whole in Europe. Bilateral processes are taking place here. On the one hand, Russia itself is turning off the gas and oil screens and, on the other, there will also be embargoes on Russian oil and gas from Europe. What's your assessment of how it ends? Will Western Europe or Europe at all be free of energy dependence from Russia and what could be oil and gas prices if this war continues with the same intensity in the coming months? What's the prognosis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U96	Thank you. I'd say I have a very pessimistic prognosis. I'm not going to draw any black script here, but the prognosis is pessimistic. Of course, economies are adapting, countries are making an effort to adapt, but in Estonia for example... It cannot be said, it was the government of the Reform Party during Taavi Rõivas, which ruined the creation of a LNG terminal in Estonia. And that is why we are one of the countries in Europe that is more than 90% dependent on Russian gas. I don't know if 97% or something. If we had a LNG terminal, we could buy gas from North America, North Africa. Although he's expensive now and he's not even available, delivery times are months long, but at least there's something we can get. If tomorrow's faucet gets turned off on the Russian side, that's it. And that's the reality. Then it doesn't matter what the price is, no more gas for money. The price of oil is certainly going through a very, very significant increase. $120 ain't no ceiling yet. I think we're leaving for $200. And as the jaws say, nothing cures the high price as well as the high price. A high price destroys demand. I talked to one person yesterday about the price of gas. He said I couldn't drive to work anymore. Pay's not gonna work. If I come to work in a car, the paycheck won't work out. And we haven't seen them yet. The prognosis is very black, I would say, in the sense that these prices make crazy jumps. And it is in this key that it is vital that every country can take care of itself in some way. Of course, as soon as this price rises to such insane [highs], oil-producing countries are trying to increase their production. First of all, it's good for them, they make wild money on it. And with this profit, it is possible to make the following investments, open new deposits or increase production. But it all takes time. Well, we're talking about some sort of two-year period. What is he doing with the world economy? It is possible to draw different forecasts or scenarios here, but especially in view of the difficult economic situation that exists after the corona, given the debt burden of being after the corona and after the economic crisis, I think that the global economy is facing extremely difficult times. And especially in Europe, because Europe is one of the world's most or most deeply indebted economies. And serving this debt, dealing with this debt, should have been helped by economic growth, but at such energy prices, economic growth is a dream. We will see the classic stagflation of the 1970s - inflation and stagnation at the same time - in the next few years. High prices eat up all kinds of purchasing power, any other normal economic expansion or growth and consumption will disappear due to the collapse of purchasing power. The real standard of living of people will fall sharply in the coming years, not only in Estonia, but we will also talk about Europe more widely. This will certainly have extremely serious political consequences. In countries where some sort of democratic feedback mechanism works and there are real consequences in elections, I think we are beginning to see very steep spikes in domestic policy, foreign policy and economic policy in Europe. But not just in Europe, elsewhere, too. And it will undoubtedly destabilise the security situation even more. So, yes, I look forward to the future with great concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U97	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Now we're going to the board of directors' report and Mikhail Korb will do it. Please! Mr. Korb, actually, I'm looking at the clock right now. We have a story that it's 12:38 and it can't be ruled out that there are questions for you. We have also received a proposal from the Centre Party Group to extend the session, and I think that we should vote through this before we let you on the remote. So let's vote on this extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has come to extend the sitting today until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U99	The proposal was supported by 32 delegates, no votes against, no abstentions. We have extended the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. And now I would like to ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, for a chair here with his presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable drafters! Let me briefly outline what took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 21 February. Nine members of the Economic Commission were present; they were all actively involved in the discussion. And since we have three drafts with similar content, the discussion was not as long as on the previous item, as there were legal questions, but only in favour of content was discussed here. The representative of those who passed the bill spoke briefly about his proposal. Several specialists also took part in the meeting. Specialists in MKM mentioned that this change would probably not improve the situation because there are moments where the price is high, but there are also moments where the price is low. The Head of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance said that such a change would probably be regarded as a breach of European Union law, which would be expected to result in infringement proceedings and financial penalties. This could certainly have an impact on businesses. An advisor to the Climate Department of the Ministry of the Environment mentioned that high electricity prices are primarily due to gas prices and not so much to carbon trading itself. Finally, there was a vote: it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 March and proposed that the final vote on the draft be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U101	Thank you. Questions can also be asked to the rapporteur. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U102	Yeah. Why don't you be so kind, good Mr. Korb, and explain to me how the CO2 quota, what we have to pay, doesn't raise the price of electricity, as you explained very nicely to us here just a moment ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U103	If you want my explanation for this question, I will certainly try to do so, but I would argue with you in advance. I didn't say that, first of all. I never said that. I quoted the official who appeared in the Commission and, as he said precisely, not so much CO2. Perhaps, above all, he mentioned that high prices for energy sources increase prices, not so much CO2 per se. But as far as your question is concerned, it is clear that with your question you are expressing the view that CO2 will increase the price. Unfortunately, on the one hand, we could agree, but on the other, we cannot, because the objective of the CO2 trading system, I do not know, I do not know how much it actually meets expectations, but this system has been introduced to distinguish between fossil and non-fossil heating sources. And when we talk about energy produced from solar panels or wind generators or wind, there is no price of CO2 and it could be said that it is an energy source that does not apply the price of CO2 and it is in a more favourable and preferred position on the market. And so my answer to you is that if energy is produced from a carbon neutral source, such as the wind or the sun, the price of that energy will not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U105	Good manager! Dear waitress, You know perfectly well that on both sides of the Narva River there is oil shale and on both sides it is mined, and the furnace is also driven. My question is that on this side the price of the CO2 quota will be added, but on the other side of the Narva River, Russia, it will not be done. My question is whether Russia has acted smarter than we have done here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U106	You see, it is clear that each country, all Heads of State, makes political decisions and choices. Estonia once decided that we would join the climate agreement and the green agreement. I heard quite a number of times during the discussion in this Chamber that people are not taken into account at all and that the will of the people is not wanted to be heard and that they want to keep the decision of the people and the word of the people apart. Well, there's no way I can agree with that statement either. It is clear that there are no undemocratic processes in Estonia or in other European countries, in any European country. In all countries, there are legitimate governments chosen by the people. The people's own politicians have expressed their vision and will during the electoral process. No one has ever said that there is an elected government anywhere that is not legitimate. It's all very legitimate. And all those legitimate governments, who are legitimate representatives of the people, decided together to sign the climate agreement and implement the CO2 system. Perhaps the people who made these decisions have been chosen by the people. And if there is ever a political power that says it is wrong and everything needs to be changed, then this government too has a legitimate basis for doing all of this. It cannot be said that what is happening here in Estonia or anywhere else is undemocratic or non-legime and is different from the [will] of the people. People, I mean, wanted the environment to be safer, the environment to be greener, and, unfortunately, politicians could not offer anything other than the CO2 system. And today's government and the previous government, as well as the previous government, said that we agree with this policy. Europe as a whole is currently in one position. As far as neighbours are concerned, well, if you have a neighbour who behaves abnormally and inadequately, that does not mean that you have to do the same or do the same. You're doing what you think is right. Yes, today we have come to an interesting situation, there are quite a few factors here. Someone says Auvere's in the shop. That is correct, but Auvere does not influence the pricing of the whole of Europe. But it is clear that this is a problem today on a European scale; it is not just a matter for the Estonian state. It's all happening. And to talk about today that, oh, what happens is a bit wrong or cynical. This is what we have decided years ago, these are the mistakes that we have made with decisions ten years ago and where we have come from. Today, the question is that solutions must be found. Today I heard a lot of talk in this hall about how it's bad, oh, what's going on. But I haven't heard a specific proposal. Yeah, okay, the LNG story was good, that's what I totally support, and I think it's a pretty good plan. In this sense, to some extent blame it for the fact that it was a strategic mistake If this terminal were here today, we could have talked about building fast gas generators that generate energy quickly, everything would have been God's fine. Yes, the price is expensive, but it is, after all, more cost-effective than depending on other sources. In other sources, we are the donor today. And as far as the high price is concerned, I would like to bring in another aspect. In fact, in our region, we have the best controlled capacities at the moment. We're the best at generating energy. How many times have we heard here that Eesti Energia collects some maximum profit, this is quite a profit. And very good and very right, you have to pick it up! But from whom does Eesti Energia collect profits? Eesti Energia collects profits from Estonian people, but it also collects profits from Lithuanians and Latvians. He sells energy, he sells energy to the market. Yes, after that, mechanisms must be put in place to support people and to bring back and return this money to our people. But to talk about the fact that now there's a bad system and we're going to change everything back to the end of the day, we don't know which system is cheaper and more effective, what we're going to end up with. In short, as far as Russia is concerned, this is how I say: if a neighbor acts like a bad person, then it is not the way he should act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U107	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U108	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Here I asked the previous speaker and also pointed out that we are living in a completely different paradigm than February 24. And all other countries are already rethinking their actions and behaviours, as well as energy policies. If we see now, how have we already come to a situation where we ourselves have to say that we are abandoning certain energy carriers coming from Russia, and Russia has already said that at one point it will simply turn these taps off, what is your position? What do you say to the Estonian people now, in a situation where they are no longer able to cope with this situation at one point, are all energy prices high or do we have no energy resources at all if Russia no longer allows us these energy carriers or we ourselves say that we will not take them from that side? What's your position? What would you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U109	Thank you. That's a good question. I say once again that we need to monitor not even Estonia here, we are still talking about the whole region, we are talking about the whole Baltics, we are talking about the whole region. Basically, since we now have good connections with Latvia and Lithuania, we must use this situation and maximise or increase energy supply, or create maximum opportunities for the development of controlled capacities and do so in the most cost-effective way possible, i.e. in the most favourable way possible. Just as we discussed correctly in this discussion from my point of view, wind energy is today, which we can produce very much at a certain point, but at a certain point we are in a situation where we do not have controlled power. But again, coming back to your bill, looking at your bill, I don't get it. If we abandon the trading system, what will happen to our abandoning the Russian network? Because if we act alone and we give it up alone, or we do desynchronous, I say we can't deliver at all, we don't have any electricity at all. I simply do not understand what your proposal is, what your group or the drafters are proposing. Are we still abandoning Russia's [network] desynchronousisation, or are we not giving up, or are we going to continue with this plan? If we do not give up this plan, we cannot talk about a closed market because our capacities will not be able to survive in our synchronous area. Because if we don't trade in the free market, our power to hold the frequency is extremely low. We will not be able to provide this service to ourselves, or it is possible, but we will do so at a very, very high price. If we get out of the market, we're gonna lose a lot if we start adjusting the frequency. I do not understand whether the drafters have a vision on this issue or not. I suspect that this plan is still being supported in order to de-sync Russia, but economically it is not possible. Where do we get these reserve capacities? We are not able to sustain them ourselves because it is becoming extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U110	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U111	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have heard you talk here several times about how you did not hear any proposals today and you do not understand anything that has been said here and what has been proposed. Please take your time, read the verbatim again, read the bill again, with a thought! I didn't notice if you were in the hall before or not. If you had listened to the discussion that was in this round of questions and answers, there was a lot of ideas that you should and should be discussing. So please take your time and rework it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U112	Thank you for your comment. Yeah, I was in the hall, I listened carefully. I hear the situation is bad and bad, but I still say that I have not heard any suggestions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U113	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Mart Helme has expressed his wish to give a speech during the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker used this speech chair here to show very clearly that he has not understood the meaning and purpose of our draft. And that is extremely dubious, because it probably also reflects the current government's view that they and they alone are on the right track and must not be disturbed in the slightest in this right way. But it reminds me of another time as a historian. In the early 1500's, Russia attacked Old Livonia. Assault went, as usual, under the stars of killings, lootings, burnings, as we see now in Ukraine. But Vana-Livonia was able to mobilize under the leadership of Master Wolter von Plettenberg and defeated the Russians very painfully. The main battle was fought by the lakes of Smolino in Pihkva County, and the Order's troops there won a destructive victory over the Moscovia troops. It gave Old Livonia about 50 years, a little over 50 years of breath and Order Master von Plettenberg, who is one of the great men of our history, tried, but not with very good consequences, to prepare the whole country inevitably for the war to come again in the future. But what did the cities do, what did the bishoprics do? I didn't do anything. Didn't pay the necessary funds to increase the defense capabilities, didn't hire enough mercenaries, didn't pay the mercenaries' wages, so they ran out. Although a decision was taken on Earth day not to sell strategic goods to Russia, i.e. firearms, heavy-duty horses, powder, powder components and so on and so forth, trade continued. That's because you can't afford to miss the money. We see the same happening now throughout Europe, and not only in Europe. The result? The result was that when the Livonian war broke out, the land was completely unprepared for war. And the losses, the sufferings were terrible. We can say that it was during this period that it was decided that the Estonian people would become a small nation. Until then, we were more or less in the same demographic form as the Swedes, the Danes. You shouldn't talk about Finns at all, they were quite a tiny piece of folk at the time. But we were just killed. We died of hunger, plague because we were unprepared. And what do we see now? Now we see that 2008 was a wake-up call, and everyone was talking about Ukraine next. There is no doubt that the next is Ukraine. The next Ukraine is now, and now everyone is saying: the following is the Baltics, there is no doubt that the next one is the Baltics. And nothing is done. And it is criminal that this draft, which is currently under discussion, has also been declared by the Commission to be non-compliant, unfeasible, inadequate and so on. But he's not! As Martin quite rightly answered the questions so that in a few weeks we could bring down the price of electricity. We should act feverishly now to ensure that our independent energy supply is maintained. We should act feverishly to ensure that our energy supply is diversified and not just based on wind farms, because it is the easiest to destroy under war conditions. We should have cogeneration plants, we should have bio-fired plants, we should have our own wood-based plants. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U115	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U116	Nothing is done on this subject. Don't move a flower! Because imagine that is contrary to the European directive. Are the people of the European Commission going to die here or are they going to fight here? I won't! This is our people, the people of Estonia, also the Ukrainian refugees who have come to Estonia, who are again under attack. And this government won't move a thing. It does not agree to make an additional budget to increase defence costs. He's not willing to review our energy supply. He doesn't really have any idea what our reserves are supposed to be, the distribution of our reserves among the population, what our evacuation options should be. There's no idea, and there's nothing to be moved to get it all dealt with. It's not that everyone knows that the next one is the Baltic. That's the government we have right now. By the way, once again in history, even then Plettenberg's descendants, von Fürstenberg and others, contributed that the German Order would come and give us help and protect us and reject the Russians if they invade the country. The German Order refused to do so. No one came to help us. I mean, God helps the one who helps himself. Back then, in Old Livonia, they were not able to help themselves, nor did they come from God or from those who were hoped for in this worldly life. Now we are talking again about unity, solidarity, but we are not prepared for these forces behind us and for the ancient god to help us. And it's criminal. This is something that needs to be done now. That is why I call on everyone who has a conscience and who has a mind working for it to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U117	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We now need to have a vote. No amendments were tabled to the draft, and the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 513. I would point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the decision. But first, let's do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 513. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-08_U118	There are 17 ambassadors in favour of the draft, 26 against, no abstentions. The draft was not supported. That concludes our agenda and the hearing is closed. Have a nice day.
