ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The session of the 10th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu will begin and we will be able to deliver drafts or inquiries at the beginning of the session. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I will hand over the draft amendment to the Estonian Language Act. It's about the war refugees here. We are in an extraordinary situation where there are many war refugees. Estonia has now received 27,000 people, or 27,000 people have come here. The problem is, these people can't get a professional job. If they do not have access to professional employment, the consequences may be as follows: Firstly, because of language requirements, they go to jobs where language requirements do not exist in this form. This means that certain positions, certain jobs in Estonia, will be so-called overcrowded. Perhaps our own people, who usually work in lower-paid jobs, incomes or jobs or the opportunity to go to work, are in some ways at risk. In other words, we have a lot of people to support, even though they can work for themselves. Our proposal includes a temporary one-off relief for people who have come to Estonia until the end of this year and who have received international protection: they will have up to two years of professional work so that we do not ask them for the skills of the Estonian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U3	The bill has reached us electronically. The [request for referral of drafts or enquiries] is no longer visible. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U4	71 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Today we have two items on the agenda, both of which are other readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U5	First of all, we have on the agenda a draft Law on Commercial Registers, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 493. I call Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good members of the Riigikogu! The Commercial Register Act is a very voluminous law, and here is the whole new text of this law that we should be able to adopt with you. My report will be quite lengthy because the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed it in its three meetings of the Commission, and therefore there are quite a few minutes that I should give you an overview of, but I hope to fit into the time frames given to me. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic at the end of last year and the first reading was completed in this Chamber on 25 January. Since a few months have passed, I will recall with three sentences what we are trying to achieve or change with this draft. The purpose of the draft is to harmonise the regulation of the register of all legal persons governed by private law, to bring the requirements relating to the keeping of registers into a single law and to update the keeping of registers. The amendments relate to Chapter 4 of the revision of company law, completed on 18 September 2021. The draft proposes that the registers of non-profit institutions and foundations, together with the sub-registers, be included in the business register in order to be part of the register of other legal entities, including self-employed persons. The draft Commercial Register Act provides for the inclusion of shareholders of private limited liability companies in the register card in order to establish a shareholder register and ensure reliability in the conduct of part-time commercial transactions. The draft also extends the monitoring options of the business registrar. It was a reminder of the bill. Now, for the preparation of the second reading, the Commission discussed for the first time at its meeting on 22 February. By the deadline for amendments, 8 February, neither members of the Riigikogu nor the political groups made any amendments. However, the stakeholders and the parties involved in the drafting submitted their opinions and the Commission listened to these proposals at that meeting. Philippe Jourdan and Erik Salumäe, member of the Estonian Council of Churches, who introduced the proposals of the Estonian Council of Churches, first presented to us. The content of these [more significant] proposals was to legitimise the entry of the ecclesiastical name of a member of the board of the Community on the register card of the religious association in addition to the identity of the person. So far, this has been a normal practice, but there has been no legal basis or legal basis for this. Father Philippe Jourdan explained that the ecclesiastical name of the Roman Catholic Church and Orthodox Church is not randomly elected, but that a person receives it once in his life by starting his monastery or trades and it does not change, so abuse of the church name is not possible. In Estonia, it concerns three churches: Roman Catholic and two Orthodox churches. Piret Jesse, the representative of the Estonian Bar Association, then presented his views, whose main concern was that the adequacy of the value of the consideration in kind in excess of EUR 50000 in terms of compliance with the requirements of the Act must be assessed by the auditor. Applying this rule to private limited liability companies would create many problems, which is difficult and would hinder the raising of capital. The draft is intended to establish a strong shareholder register with the names of the shareholders to be entered on the registry card. So far, there has not been such a strong shareholder register, a list of shareholders has been kept by the management board of the private limited company and there has been no problem. Then the barrister asked questions about the time of the transfer of ownership, because the law provides that property will be transferred once the notary has confirmed it and a registration has been made. The Attorneys-at-Law found that it would be difficult to practically implement such two entries without a specific deadline for the actual transfer of ownership. Maarit Puhm, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, explained to the barrister that the purpose of the amendment was precisely to create a list of legitimate owners. If property is transferred with a transfer, it is the most legitimate way. If the property were transferred by the transaction, it could not be completed until the entry was made, only this is the case with the acquisition of good faith. He brought here an analog to the property register by securing ownership. The second representative of the Ministry of Justice, the head of the private law department of the Legal Policy Department, Vaike Murumets, once again explained the transfer of ownership and that the transfer from the entry, I am thinking of the transfer from the register, is also important because it changes the database of the owners of the beneficiaries. Where ownership of a part of the transaction is transferred and the entry in the register is only for the purpose of providing assurance in good faith, but there is, for example, a lack of transaction in the submitted statement, confusion arises for the firm itself, as well as whether the transaction is valid for the State and what is reported for the actual beneficiaries. The Board of Auditors then presented its proposal. It was reported by Chancellor Mare Kingo and his main problem was the economic environment and the reliability of the data. He also considered the proposal of the Ministry of Justice to be too high a threshold of EUR 50000 for the assessment of financial contributions. [If there were no auditing of contributions in kind in the case of private limited liability companies], the situation would apply where this obligation would apply to public limited liability companies, but in the case of private limited liability companies which may achieve paid-up capital of a size comparable to that of a public limited liability company, the valuation of the consideration in kind should not be verified. It is therefore in the interest of a sound economic and business environment, including the solvency of private limited companies, to introduce a high obligation to audit contributions in kind. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, Maarit Puhm, explained that the assessment of the consideration in kind was found during the review of company law that it was appropriate to abolish it, but the solution currently proposed in the draft is a compromise between different opinions and needs. The Estonian Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators was then given the floor. Their proposals were presented by Jüri Trides. He pointed out that the draft would make it burdensome to delete a company from the commercial register for a long period of time, such as bankruptcy proceedings or enforcement proceedings or arbitration proceedings. The law does not provide a solution if the bankruptcy subsides before the declaration of bankruptcy. Such procedures may last for years and the draft supports a situation in which an insolvent undertaking cannot be removed from the register for years. They also did not agree that the identity of the temporary insolvency administrator would be entered on the register card and proposed that it be entered on the register card only if the bankruptcy proceedings had ended. Vaike Murumets, a representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that, however, the consent of the temporary insolvency administrator is required to dispose of the property, which is why it is important that he should be entered in the register. Next, Kerttu-Kaarina Tombak, representative of the Estonian branch of Nasdaq CSD, received the floor. They proposed that, if the draft provides for the removal of a legal person from the register as a prerequisite for the legal person to be removed from the register in the land register, in the ship's blocked book or in the commercial register, the lack of assets which, according to the explanatory memorandum, should be checked by the business registrar, there have been problems in practice if legal associations whose names remain open with securities accounts on which securities are held. The securities registrar proposes that consideration be given to supplementing the list in the Commercial Register in such a way as to ensure that the company to be deleted does not have assets in the securities account. Aivar Vimberg, representative of the Estonian Judicial Association, considered it necessary to address the insolvency proceedings in particular, stressing that a company in bankruptcy proceedings may remain in the register for years if its deletion is not contested and such a situation is detrimental to the integrity of the business register. The Service Economy Chamber, which brings together companies serving e-residents, was concerned in Ivar Veskioja's person that the draft requires the association to show in which country it is located. The regulation of a contact person is essential to ensure that such an undertaking complies, for example, with the rules and accounting rules for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The address of the contact person is also considered to be the address of the legal person, but the linking to the contact person's foreign address is questionable and it would be more appropriate to link it to the address of the population register of the management board. Vaike Murumets, representative of the Ministry of Justice, explained and responded to the proposal of the Chamber of Service Economy that they would fight against the amendment adopted four years ago. If a member of the management board of the company is in Latvia and another member of the management board is in Finland and it is a company of the Republic of Estonia that does not have a seat in Estonia, it is still possible to present Estonia as the seat of the company. The physical address does not have any meaning in the register procedure, since the message sent to the e-mail address is deemed to have been delivered even when an error message is received by the sender. It is therefore more important to have an e-mail address and it is a legal person's problem if it does not receive information from it. It is not justified to cause a problem with the physical address. Therefore, at this meeting, we received all the opinions we had heard, and we did not make any procedural decisions. The only decision was that we will continue to deal with this [draft] at the next meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which took place on 21 March. In accordance with the opinions heard and negotiating with the Ministry of Justice, the Legal Affairs Committee decided to submit 23 amendments to the Riigikogu for decision and discussion. Since there are so many of them, I'm not going to introduce them to you one by one, but I tried to group them somehow. For example, amendments 2 and 12 concern the same proposal of the Estonian Council of Churches to enter on the register the ecclesiastical name of a member of the board of the religious association in addition to his civil name. There are then a number of amendments where the Audit Board proposed to replace the term "jurisdictionary auditor" with the term "auditor undertaking" and the term "auditing" with the term "audit control." These are Amendments 3, 5, 8, 13, 14, 16, 19 and 21. The two amendments concern wordingual clarifications. These are Amendments 6 and 11. Amendment 1 concerns the data to be included in the list of members of the building cooperative and is exempted from the list of members of the building cooperative: the names of the shares and their denominations are not included in the list of members of the building cooperative. Amendment 4 amends the title of one section of the draft. Amendment 7 introduces two sections in the draft: § 47 and § 48 concerning the system of interconnection of the European Union's business registers and the exchange of information between the European Union's business registers. As a result of this amendment, the numbering of paragraphs will also change. If you follow these amendments, this numbering change should be taken into account. Amendment 10 adds an additional clause to the deletion from the register that the warning may also be sent automatically on expiry of the deadline. Amendment 15 concerns the amendment of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, which derogates from the deletion of a legal person from the register. More specifically, a legal person cannot be removed from the register if the latter is involved in criminal proceedings as a party to the proceedings. Amendment 18 follows from the opinion of the Estonian branch of Nasdaq CSD and deals with data that must reach the public file of the business register from the Estonian securities register. Amendment 20 follows from the opinion of the Estonian Association of Judicial Aids and deals with single-member private limited liability companies. Where private limited-liability companies are wound up and the declarant is the sole shareholder, the three-month deadline for access to the final report need not apply. Amendments 22 and 23 are both amendments to the entry into force rule resulting from the two additional paragraphs 47 and 48. That is why, as I said, the other sections will change the numbers. Amendments 9 and 17 needed further clarification at this meeting of the Commission and remained for the next review. We did not make any more procedural decisions in this sitting. The third time we discussed these amendments on 21 March. I think I made a mistake earlier. Our last meeting was on 14 March, and now I'm going to report the report on 21 March. I'm sorry! On 21 March, as I said, amendments 9 and 17 were not discussed. As a result of this clarification, Amendment 9 is worded in this way, meaning that a register of securities has been added from which the existence of an asset must be checked before the register is deleted. And the second amendment, which we did not discuss, concerned the size of the share capital and the audit. It is now worded as follows: "If a private limited-liability company has equity capital of at least EUR 25000 or the nominal value of the share received or to be increased on account of consideration in kind is at least EUR 25000, the assessment of the adequacy of the consideration in kind must be verified by an auditor in respect of compliance with the requirements laid down in § 142 of this Code." These amendments were supported by consensus, but were received before the meeting of this committee, on 18 March the Commission received a letter from the Estonian Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators on Amendment 15, which we had already voted on and which we had approved at the meeting on 14 March. The Estonian Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators pointed out that it is not justified not to delete insolvent legal persons from the register because they are subject to criminal proceedings. It is therefore appropriate to clarify the different procedural situations in the provision and to include in the amendment the possibility of discretion with the permission of the judge. As a result, the amendment has also been worded in the same way, and has been added: with the permission of the defendant, this legal person may also be deleted before the criminal proceedings are concluded. So, and then this amendment was accepted. Finally, the chairman of the committee proposed that the second reading of draft 493 be carried out on 7 April, today, to propose that the second reading be completed, and when the second reading is completed, the third reading should be scheduled for 13 April this year with a proposal for a final vote. A majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are required for the adoption of the draft act. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U7	Thank you very much. There are some questions. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns Amendment 7: § 47 and § 48. Please specify: are we going to transpose Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Union with this specific amendment, or has it already been transposed earlier, and now we are going to specify it? I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U9	Wait a minute. With these two paragraphs, we are indeed introducing a new version of the Commercial Register Act, as I said, into the law of the European Union, which concerns the system of interconnection of business registers and the exchange of information between them, so that they are all in the same law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U10	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U11	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't exactly understand the protocols. Can you now use these ecclesiastical names as Mother Vimala and iguumenja Filareta? I'm not gonna ask if the name Kojaman can be used. A colleague's not here, and he's not a holy man either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U12	Yes, after the adoption of this law, members of the board of religious associations, if they are members of the board, can use their ecclesiastical name to be entered on the register card. As for the Kojaman, the Ministry of Justice didn't want to open this Pandora box either. Indeed, if the Chamberman could write the name on his register card, if he opened a company and a private limited company, the Commission did not support it. So it's still going to be true that the Housekeeper can't put himself on the registration card.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U13	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U14	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will continue with Amendment 7 and new paragraphs. Paragraph 47 (4) states: "The confirmations of the sending and receipt of data transmitted through the system of interconnection of commercial registers in the European Union shall be provided in an automated manner, if there is any technical means available. " Maybe you'll tell me what it means. Does it say that, with technical possibilities, we're kind of creating an automated system? Is this system in place today, or if this system is not in place today, how is it supposed to work now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U15	That's right, you've got it right. There are a lot of IT solutions and developments in the justice system at present. If you look at the deadlines for the entry into force of this law, these deadlines vary from one point to another, and this will indeed only happen once the corresponding technical resources have been created, then they can also be transmitted by automated means through these technical means.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U17	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you explain a little how the minimum capital of 2,500 euros has been able to last so long? Was it nearly 30 years? And what just broke his spine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U18	Yes, it has indeed turned from 40,000 kroons to 2500 euros. Not 30 years ago, but a little later. But I really cannot answer that question because I have not worked in the area of justice over these years and this was not discussed in the Commission. As I said, before the full text of this law was drawn up, a legal review of company law was carried out and, as a result of the work of its lawyers and legal practitioners, it was found that, in fact, it was not justified to fix such capital. First of all, this EUR 2500 is often insufficient capital to develop economic activity, while, as a rule, no one will ever keep that EUR 2500 on their account when it carries on economic activity. And if in-kind contributions are allowed, then eventually smart heads, lawyers together decided that it no longer has any meaning for economic activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U19	Thank you. I don't see any more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U21	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. 23 amendments to the draft have been received. The first proposal is made by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment No two, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment three, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment four, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and they have taken full account of it themselves. Amendment 5, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment six, as well as the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, have taken full account of this. Amendment seven, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment nine, tabled again by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 10, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Proposal No 11, proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 15, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 16, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has taken full account of this. Amendment 18, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and taken full account of it itself. Amendment 20, proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission of directors, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 21, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Last, 23rd, by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 493 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U22	Let us move on to today's second item. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws 491. This is a second reading. I call Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first introduce the amendment of the Public Procurement Act [and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws] between the first reading and the second reading of the draft law 491. I will also review the amendments once again and I will finally present the procedural decisions. The draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 November of last year. The first reading of the bill took place on 19 January this year. As I introduced at first reading, this was preceded by a very, very, very in-depth discussion with specialists, stakeholders and ministries in the context of their intention to develop. It was a very thorough material that reached this Riigikogu. Neither the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups nor the committees of the Riigikogu submitted any amendments between the first and second readings by the deadline for submitting amendments. This is also understandable because a thorough preliminary work had been done. The opinion was submitted by the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, Eesti Energia AS, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities from among the 43 institutions that were informed of the processing of the draft in Parliament. All the opinions presented are shown on the draft map. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft at the meeting of the Commission on 23 February this year. Representatives of the initiator were also present. The Committee on Economic Affairs itself discussed the draft at its meeting on 15 March. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance were there in the same way. After the debate, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to draw up ten additional amendments, which I will present a little separately. One of them is based on input from the Cities and Municipalities Association; the other is technical specifications and the latter is also such a date specification. All of these have been unanimously adopted. No problems have occurred. Now a little bit of the amendments. As I said, the first came from the input provided by the Union of Cities and Municipalities. This is a drafting clarification because the wording proposed by the Ministry of Finance was interpreted in various ways. It was possible to see whether the award criteria under the framework agreement were understood or whether it would be necessary to understand the award criteria on which this mini-competition is based. So this wording was made. The second amendment clarifies the circumstances of the procurement passport. It's all technical. The third allows local authorities to appoint a central purchasing body within the municipality. The fourth is also technical, with a missing reference to the Defence and Security Directive. Similarly, the fifth adds signs of equivalence in line with the Directive's requirement that it is well aligned. The sixth is more thorough. It provides for the organisation of a procurement procedure in the fields of defence and security how it is to be carried out: either in a classic way, such as the rest of the public procurement or [in such a way] they do not conflict with the specific provisions of Chapter 5 of the organisation of the same procurement procedure. If they conflict, it must be based on it. The seventh sets out the conditions where the undertaking initially involved in the offer is replaced either by a successor in title or by another undertaking. The eighth is terminological clarification. As this is a public procurement procedure, the term "public procurement' is replaced by "public procurement'. They are basically different intelligible. The ninth time limit shall be extended to the work of the appeal committee if the appeal committee has not been able to carry out all the procedural procedures. And the 10th, the latter, replaces the entry into force of this draft [date]: it was originally due to enter into force on 1 April, [now] will enter into force on 1 June, so that due to the delay of the procedure, there would also be sufficient time for those implementing the law to examine those provisions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also wanted to present a small change here, but during the discussion with the Ministry of Finance it became clear that there is no need for this change directly, because this issue or problem can be resolved entirely on the basis of the existing Public Procurement Act. This change was based on this crisis situation to address the needs of war refugees more quickly. However, it is perfectly possible to solve this problem through unproclaimed negotiated procurement in an urgent situation, so that the rapid delivery of humanitarian aid is certainly not behind this problem. Finally, procedural decisions were all consensual. It was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 6 April, which is yesterday. In this regard, the Bureau, when it drafted this week's agenda, felt that this [reading] could be today, so in this respect, I would ask that all complaints be directed behind my back. Propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, place the third reading on the agenda next Wednesday, 13 April. As I said, all these decisions were consensual. That is how we have been able to process the second reading by the Commission. Thank you. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U24	Thank you. Now the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U25	Good manager! Dear waitress, I'm glad it's all consensual and lucid. But I'm a fan of the National Audit Office's audits and I follow them closely. And the question is because when the previous law was finished, then after that the Auditor General wrote it, well the point was that the aim was to make procurement easier, but in fact everything became more complicated. For example, in the case of construction procurement, eight to ten months were late, the price went by a quarter more expensive and so on and so forth. My question is: will this bill make it easier and easier for those involved in the procurement, or will it be as it is? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U26	Thank you. I don't know how it affects whether it stays the way it is. I think it'll get better. At first reading, I was actually saying that the changes that have been made here are all based on the so-called additions to the law on public procurement adopted in 2017 and on the inputs and contradictions that the directives of the original Public Procurement Act had. [in the sense that] the Public Procurement Act was drawn up on the basis of these directives. These directives were not fully transposed correctly, and indeed, there were many problems at national level as well. I would like to stress once again that before this law reached the Riigikogu, a very thorough preliminary work was carried out between these parties, precisely the ministries. And it's a pretty thick piece of processed material that got here. In the working group, I had the impression that all these points of pain were discussed particularly thoroughly between the parties involved and the Ministry of Finance and reached a consensus. The objective conflict situation remained at only one point. This concerned the setting of the procurement thresholds, whether [could] be higher. But it is purely objective, it is not dependent on how anyone likes it, but it comes from the fact that both contracting authorities and tenderers have different interests there, well, such objective conflict is programmed in there. But this is not a place of political conflict. In short, all I want to say is that everything has been thoroughly negotiated between the parties involved in the preliminary work and between the authors of this law. And on this basis, I would like to believe that, thanks to these changes, this public procurement process will work much better in the future and will take more account of all the possible details arising from the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U27	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Let me give you a practical example. When I was a minister for the last week, an internal audit report came on my desk, which showed that the Police and Border Guard Board had a gross violation of the Public Procurement Act: they bought cars for the police without a competition, bought ordinary cars under the name of special purpose vehicles and so on and so forth. I had an appointment for the next working week to convene a meeting to discuss the whole issue, but the change of government, the former policeman became a minister, and the whole scandal disappeared and did not get out in the open. Why should I believe that in the current situation, when the current government throws the reports of the National Audit Office into the garbage bin, something will change in connection with the adoption of this law? Why should I believe that when a doppelganger and a deep state roll over the real rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U29	I didn't understand where we have the deep state here and where we have the rule of law and what proportion they have somewhere. But that's it. I think this is a one-time, concrete case that does not fit well within the framework of the procedure for this draft. We are not talking about the past, we are talking about the future, and we are talking about tidying up the future on the basis of the past. I'm sure this case can also be considered here. I'd like to believe there was some other detail in the game that made this case the way it was. But I guess it's more of an assessment by the National Audit Office of how legitimate this particular case was. I don't know how to make that assessment around here without knowing the specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U30	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U31	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand you're like a believer, you do. But I'm not such a big believer. I believe more in the audits of the National Audit Office, which I have really followed closely. Looking at this procedure and reading the documents that you are talking about and which have been huge, I do not think he will get much better and, in three or four years' time, we will have to ask the same thing again. But what is your faith based on? Have you even read and compared the audits of the National Audit Office concerning public procurement with the way in which the current procedure, which you are conducting, matches them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U32	I'm gonna start by explaining that we've both expressed our belief here. You expressed your opinion here. The opinion is always based, I don't know, on some kind of belief that things are moving in some direction. I can't say I'm relying on some kind of faith in this bill. I have worked through these materials, and I am of the opinion that, after the work of the group and the Commission, as well as all the work that has been done here, as well as reading the Public Procurement Act and the explanatory memorandum to this [draft], the changes that have been introduced here will make this better. But I'm saying I'm not a practitioner. In this respect, I cannot speak as a practitioner. Life shows now. But what I say in my assessment is that, when assessing this preliminary work, which has been done here largely with the participation of the parties involved and just the practitioners, and when assessing that they have been very agreeable, you might think that it should be for the better. And, moreover, there are, of course, the comments made by the European Commission, which have been taken into account, I would stress once again. The comments have been taken into account and the Public Procurement Act has been improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U33	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! At first reading, the Minister for Public Administration, who presented this [draft] here, received a question that was motivated by concern about the issue raised by the Council of Rectors. In particular, the rectors were very frustrated that the state, by ex-ante evaluation of the procurement process, would later have to be examined and withdrawn from this ex-ante assessment. They also apply sanctions in the case of euro payments. They were very, very upset that the state could not keep its word. The Minister promised that this issue would be resolved by law and that, in principle, the ex-ante assessment would be binding and entered in this draft. Unfortunately, this has not happened. What's the question? Why wasn't it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U35	That's a good question. I don't know. There was no mention of this in the working group, at least not in this context. This issue must probably be clarified as to why this is the case. Or was that resentment overstated afterwards? I can't comment on that right now. There was no input from the Rectors in the procedure for this draft. Once again, among those who provided concrete input after the first reading, the Council of Rectors was not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U36	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I also have to say that I am well concerned about this law, the law on public procurement, is a very difficult law with very, very, very strong interpretation possibilities. For example, I might say that if it says that "... as regards the education and professional qualifications of the persons responsible for the management of the works, if they show the economic merit of the tender to the contracting authority...', I wonder what kind of education or professional qualifications are economically advantageous. Another example: "... The contracting authority shall indicate the criteria in order of decreasing importance. " How is the order of decreasing importance assessed? Since I myself have been involved in public procurement, I know that it is often the case that the lowest price is taken and evaluated, because then no one has anything to say about it. This actually means that two things need to be done: one is good and the other is cheaper. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Did the Commission discuss whether the Commission could interpret...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U38	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U39	...all these things here? And is the Commission certain that indeed, it will bring us good...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U40	Time, Merry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U41	...or is it gonna get any messier?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U42	Thank you for your question. Of the facts that you have pointed out, the call for tenders will in principle be decided on the basis of the criteria set, of course, and one of the important criteria is, of course, price. If for any objective reason it is not possible to do so, they will be put, well, as in the order of importance of the criteria. Now I really don't know how to tell you exactly how this order of priority will develop in practice. But I say that the basic criterion is still the scale of the criteria or the importance of the criteria that are actually sought from this procurement. This is the main plus right here, plus the monetary value, given as a range. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U43	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! When we think about public procurement, the last major scandal was when our Minister of Education bought COVID's tests. I was again the one who asked Minister Aab when we were at first reading about purchases under this so-called special scheme. After all, the Minister of Education also promised us that these issues would be discussed in the government and solutions could be found for a rapid response. Minister Aab said we should look at it and consider it. In fact, nothing has changed. Can we essentially sum this up so that there is nothing really necessary to change, but the Minister simply needs to comply with the law? How do you comment on that? Was there any mention of this at all in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U45	The last question [of the Minister's compliance with the law] can only be answered unambiguously. In particular, this case, the procurement of the COVID test in the Commission, was not mentioned, perhaps there were no specific examples in the Commission working group. We were still talking about changes in how they should work, but examples supported it. But I'll come back again to the State Department proposal I mentioned earlier. Previously, they did not consult with the Ministry of Finance and proposed that, in order to speed up the process of obtaining humanitarian aid, this should be done so-called "procurement-free" so that, in the case of humanitarian aid, [nothing] should be purchased or obtained through a public procurement procedure. But it's not conceivable, and there's actually a direct path. There's two things. One thing is that public procurement has an international threshold, I think there was EUR 140000, which must be taken into account anyway. So this 140000 is not a very large amount of procurement, and the excess should already be coordinated internationally. But what I want to say is that the most important thing is that there is a shortcut here, in fact, there can be a negotiated offer. I will review: a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice can be carried out when there is an urgent situation. So there are no problems here in order to get humanitarian aid quickly. I completely imagine that if there is a need to do the same thing quickly to obtain these COVID tests or resources, you can do exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U46	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, So far, there has been a very clear principle in the Public Procurement Act: the winner is the most economically sound offer. In real life, it has often come down to the cheapest price or lower cost. In some ways, I will assist with Mr Aart's question. This amendment now aims to improve the treatment of abnormally low tenders. In so far as the Commission was concerned about the fact that it was really effective, such a legislative amendment, and there will be no dispute in the future, will the economically sound offer or the cheapest offer win?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U48	Yeah, we didn't have much talk about efficiency, but the way this process is supposed to work now, that's what we were talking about. In principle, if the offer is very different from other criteria, significantly lower than others, for example by 10% or more, then the tenderer must justify it. The tenderer must state the reasons for this and, if it cannot justify it, it is possible to take the next [tenderer] or cancel the whole procurement at all. In this sense, I think this process has been made more flexible here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U49	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! After all, any such draft or law is a reasonable time for citizens and businesses, when it is possible to get acquainted with it, to carry out the necessary training so that this law can reasonably be transposed into circulation. I look at Amendment 10: it has been said at first that it could enter into force on 1 April 2022, but now it has been said that on 1 June. And then a separate provision has been made that May 31st is the last date to announce the procurement according to the old version. Did you have a debate in the committee that maybe this deadline is too short? Hardly a month. We are today on 7 April, and we are simply giving our business-citizens a new arrangement with which they have barely a month to adapt. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U51	Thank you. I don't know how to appreciate this sense of reason. I can say this: 'No, there really was no topic around this date in the Commission's session. More was the issue that 1 April is already a past or is about to arrive at the moment of the discussion of the past, it is insufficient, and that 1 June should be enough. That's how he stayed. Maybe 1st of July would be better if there was no immediate rush here. But it's June 1st.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U52	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U53	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, George, a very well-managed-managed law. I myself am a member of the Economic Commission, thank you very much. Just as this law was passed in November, you have done a good job! But the Public Procurement Act as a whole. I think that if today the Estonian public, Estonian entrepreneurs listen to this debate here, they will think that friends, the elephant is in the room, but you will probably live in a different world in the Riigikogu and not talk about the biggest concern we have with public procurement today. You process the bill, you accept it, but you don't solve the problem, you don't even talk about it. Let me give you a few examples. We know that prices in Estonia have changed in a colossal manner due to different reasons. [I count] some of the few things we should know about. During the year, the price per kilo of wheat flour has gone from 47 cents to 74 cents. White fish cost 2.20 a year ago, today at 4.50. Tire rye bread 44 cents last year, 71 cents this year and so on and so forth. A year ago, someone has won public procurements in schools at these prices and today they have to cook for our children at these prices. This cannot be done. The pages are full of stories, where construction companies say that a year ago we won the procurements, I have heard, but I don't have an analysis to bring you here, and some procurements with a very high share of metal, concrete, have become more expensive than 50%. These are major concerns; they are major concerns for these companies. And what is its greatest concern? If today, even if the school food provider, in agreement with the local government, considers that he is unable to do so at this price and he gives up this procurement, then he will receive a black mark from our law or from the Public Procurement Act at all, and he will no longer be able to participate in the next procurement that the municipality is organising, because he has cheated or cancelled the procurement terms last time. The Public Procurement Act would require a very small amendment to ensure that, due to changes in prices that are not attributable to the supplier, if it has cancelled the contract, it is not disqualified in the next round or in the next procurement. Actually, we could make this little change in the bill. But the deadline for amendments was when this [theme] was not a problem in Estonian society. The deadline for amendments was last year, and then the Social Democratic Party Group could not make this amendment, just as no one could. Perhaps we must acknowledge our mistake, all of us, that we did not include these issues in the Commission within the framework of this law, even though this has been mentioned in the Commission. I think that this is such an important issue and come now by introducing a suspension proposal or by going to deal with it, well, probably the coalition will not support this interruption today, so I will not do this populism here. I am looking both at Jüri and the coalition ambassadors here, as far as you are concerned, and at the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I am asking the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs to see if these little nuances can be added as a matter of urgency. Perhaps in the proceedings of the Riigikogu find another draft, which is a bit related to the law on public procurement, and make these changes that are precisely those entrepreneurs who, due to the economic situation, are not themselves guilty of having to cancel the procurement and go to a new procurement, that the children, as I told them, will have to offer decent and high-quality food rather than only pasta and minced meat, figuratively speaking, although it is also a very good food, but not every day. Just to sort of fix them or find another way to open up the public procurement law once more, to solve this problem as a matter of urgency today. So I do not think that this issue has ended today, and we have to come back to it. One of the reasons for my speech was that if anyone outside this house reads and listens to our debate today, then know that this is also a concern that we are discussing in this house and that we have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U54	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U55	Thank you. I'm taking this opportunity to comment a little bit. Indeed, thank you very much, Kalvi, for bringing these things out! Of course, one thing we are discussing here is real life. As politicians, we need to involve real life here as much as possible. I am also telling you, not so much in the form of reproach, but because you are a member of the Riigikogu and also a member of the Economic Commission, that as many of these signals as possible should reach committees in particular quickly so that they can be discussed in lawmaking. However, I would point out that we have announced the draft procedure to a very large number of parties involved. I count: there were 43 institutions. When you specifically talked about these construction prices and construction workers, the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Association of Construction Consultants and all of them [the institutions involved in construction] have also been informed. No answer. Yes, the correct point is, of course, that when the deadline for amendments was changed, they did not have any problems. But life is constantly changing. The Public Procurement Act is a huge, thick set of rules, a large set of rules. And now there's this right path to make perfect, well, it's unlikely that it can count on any situation in life. Yes, inflation is what can be foreseen, but if inflation is very urgent, then I do not know how it is. However, I stress that one of the key points of the amendments to the Public Procurement Act is the evaluation criteria and the evaluation criteria do not always have to be based on price. After a procurement procedure or tenders, negotiations can also be made and there can be negotiations on how these circumstances really are, whether or not this price can be taken into account. Such comments are brief. I fully agree that if any problems remain in practical life, I think that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs are certainly prepared to reopen this law and introduce the necessary improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U56	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Public Procurement Act is, in fact, a law that affects a great many. Basically, public-private cooperation is what it regulates, and it could be said that almost every one of us is touching it one way or the other. A good colleague, Andres Metsoja, pointed out that we would have only one month in essence for this law to enter into force and implement, and this is an impertinently short time. Why is it short? I'm gonna try to open it up a little bit. My first question, in the same way, gave an input to the concerns of the Council of Rectors. True, their concern was about the ex-ante evaluation they have received of their procurement documents, which has subsequently been challenged and sanctioned because it has been European Union money. These amounts can be very large, they can be in hundreds of thousands of euros, if it is found that you are wrong, sometimes maybe formally. And it's not just that I'm going to go past a possible legal road here to buy COVID's tests and, figuratively speaking, numb and get, I don't know, a few hundred euros fine, maybe a maximum of 1000 euros. I say, there may be hundreds of thousands of euros behind this. And now, in the case of a deadline, if this difference is so short and really has to be tendered in the meantime, and there is some mistake about these changes, it does not really make sense. With such laws, it could be at least three months. The second thing is what good colleague Kalvi Tõvi raised, which has arisen since Russia's new aggression against Ukraine, and has, in some ways, hit our prices on its head. We know today, too, that inflation is 15%, and in some paragraphs, things have been seen to be more expensive. Of course, there have also been concerns about this by construction companies, which may not be able to complete their objects at such prices and which are threatening, because they are responsible for euro money. So who's finally gonna cover these expenses, or how are we gonna get out of here? Indeed, when we had our first reading on 19 January, after that, the time for [presenting] amendments was so short that it was not possible to foresee this situation today. The war in Ukraine today has been a short month and a half. In this sense, we should really do something more operational. And if this law goes to the final vote, well, I suppose it will be adopted, I don't know if it should initiate any new changes right now. These concerns that have been raised... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U58	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U59	... on this ex-ante assessment and which the tax administration is able to implement very well. If a pre-assessment has been requested in due time and it is binding, then after there is no reason to say that wait-wait, there was something wrong here. Or indeed, how to act when there is no real hyperinflation at the time of hyperinflation, but it would still be possible to regulate these contracts more flexibly so that they do not go against the law. It's actually very important. If we don't do this today, we're gonna have a really big problem. And, of course, this month would have been a real reason to think about whether this bill should have been interrupted. It is a pity that colleagues in the Social Democrats did not come up with this directly, but the issue they raised also has quite a profound content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U60	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! We are living at a time when public procurement is a complex process in itself, and precisely for those who are the initiators and others who are market participants. Indeed, predict prices. There have been times where I can't tell you the price of the next week what to say about the construction period that has a year or a half when we are talking specifically about construction activities. Perhaps in the case of short-term activities, this is a little simpler and more predictable. But as life shows and Kalvi Tough cited these examples, this technique is not a simple task either. My greatest concern is, indeed, that if we are to adopt a law in this Chamber, we must be very specific about how this society can be taken over. After all, we know that people have been trained to conduct public procurements, that they continue to be trained and that we should give [the law] a reasonable period of time. If such a change is brought to life, it cannot happen overnight, because the circle of persons involved is very large, very large, and there are also very clear penalties for infringements. It's not just that we'll do it in passing. I am sad that, in today's situation, where there is a great deal of confusion in the market with input prices, where all the attention of people and society is at war, in war, in general social functioning mechanisms, then, as Mr Jüri Jaanson, the waitress, said, it is actually not urgent. This change is not urgent. We could also say calmly in this Chamber that we are giving it a period of three months or longer. Why are we rushing if something really doesn't happen to it in a world-end-of-the-world way? So I also have a recommendation to the coalition: the drafts come to this hall over and over and over again, and hardly even in the legal field will work on changing the various provisions, it still has to be done, but if we have reached the end of the second reading, then it would be time and place to think again about the deadline for entry into force. That's what I call a coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-07_U62	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will also examine the amendments. There are 10 amendments in total. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Commission itself. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The ninth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The tenth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined all the amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 491. Second reading is complete. The agenda is also exhausted and the sitting is closed. Thank you.
