ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Happy Question Time Watchers! Good guests! Good afternoon. Let's start the 9th March briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U2	24 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 77 are missing. Today's Question Time welcomes the following members of the Government: Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik and Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets. Good fellows! Eleven issues have been registered for Question Time today. I have a request and a proposal for us to resolve this as follows: there is one additional question for each question and one more question for the floor. If that's okay and there's no protests, it could be based on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U3	Now let's start with the first question. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, a member of the government, Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and the topic is the plans for merging institutions and restructuring the work. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, My question concerns the plan to carry out the health sector, I would even dare to say, state reform. There is a plan to merge certain institutions and restructure the work. We all know that we are talking about the Health Board and the Medicines Agency, but also about the Institute for Health Development and about its role in the future. Why don't you say a few words about it? In the Committee on Social Affairs, we were briefed by Maarjo Mändmaa, Chancellor, but there was very little time and a lot of questions. If you start answering this question, maybe it would be possible to learn from your answer whether an analysis has been carried out that shows that this unification will make it better. In 2017 or 2016 there was such an analysis which showed that this was not a very good idea. It has long been on the Social Ministry's desk, health and labour ministers. So far, no further progress has been made. Is it time to move on with this now that we have very, very many other problems? And we all know that the Health Board had problems working. But the Agency and the National Institute for Health Development have done great with the tasks that the state and ministers have assigned him. Why don't you explain it a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U5	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U6	Dear Helmen Kütt, thank you for your very reasoned questions. Indeed, this topic of uniting institutions has been on the table for a very long time in the area of health. By nature, the Health Board itself is actually a joint institution, i.e. born by merging different institutions. The analysis at the time really involved joining the Health Agency, the Agency and the Institute for Health Development. The analysis then led to the creation of the TECHNIQUE Centre for Health and Welfare Information Systems. Some IT capabilities and developments were brought together. It was, I think, definitely reasonable. In fact, the usual practice of other ministries is to bring together IT and digital solutions and other support services. At the moment, we have indeed carried out an additional analysis, particularly in favour of supervision. It assessed all the supervisory bodies of the Ministry of Social Affairs more widely, looked at the health sector, the social sector and the labour sector. On the basis of this, it was proposed to propose a broader integrated institution, or at least to consider doing so, which would include the Agency, the Agency and perhaps the Labour Inspectorate, or at least some of their tasks. We have set up a separate steering group and really met with different authorities first, especially in this key to review the functions and activities of the Health Agency and the Agency and to think about the extent to which their integration would produce a positive result, particularly as a body bringing together competences and, of course, as a somewhat capable and larger institution in times of crisis. In my opinion, the COVID-19 crisis also showed quite well what to deny there, that in the case of a large, country-wide crisis in a small, thin institution, people are burning out very quickly because they are piled up with tasks. It can be said that the Health Board was a bit like a giant wave when an emergency was put in place two years ago and the whole corona virus crisis began. It would certainly have been more efficient at the time, as we have seen, for example, in the case of the Police and Border Guard Board, a large joint institution with crisis management capabilities, as well as the ability to offer workers leave or replacements clearly more than can be found in a small institution. This is one concrete example. In particular, the Institute for Health Development has discussed better synergies between prevention activities and the Health Insurance Fund. Perhaps there is still some duplication here in what the Health Insurance Fund is doing and what the National Institute for Health Development is doing so that certain places can be brought together. That would make sense to me. The important thing, of course, is that this competence, both in the field of science and especially in the view of registers, does not disappear anywhere. This is, in fact, the task or role of the steering group to carry out a calm analysis and to map out which mergers are reasonable, which add value to the country as a whole, so that there are stronger and better bodies in the field of health, which are partners for health institutions. Today, no one can say a hundred percent that this addition will come. I'm gonna say it right now. In fact, it is finally a decision of Parliament, not even a decision of the government. Right now, we're doing some preliminary work on this. I think that creating such a joint institution is the right and sensible course as a principle. Whether this is happening now, when we have several crises at once, is what the analyses show. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U7	Now, the question to be specified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U8	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I also understand that this decision is not a decision yet, but is simply an analysis in which the steering group is shaping its opinion. But I also asked if the steering group would rely on some kind of analysis or whether it would be ordered. That is exactly what I was referring to, which was in 2016 and which actually showed [no] weaknesses. And once again, I have not said that the Health Board was working badly during the crisis or during the crown virus. I'm just saying that he was unprepared, just as most of us weren't prepared for the crown virus or for this new situation. And the ones that really were there were mismanagement errors and that we had not a refrigerator, but a warmbox, the blower worked in the refrigerator, are already the following details. The issue is simply that the Agency and the Institute for Health Development have very clear tasks, although there is certainly joint work and cooperation. For example, in 2021, ministries already agreed on the principles of cross-sectoral prevention and the establishment of a competence centre for evidence-based prevention, namely the National Institute for Health Development. Is there, however, a plan for this steering group's decisions to still order an impartial analysis, which clearly shows weaknesses and strengths, so that it does not happen that it is done-considered, not intended-made?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U9	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U10	Thank you. Indeed, under the leadership of the Ministry, this initial analysis was carried out, as I said, in the field of supervision. True, it did not deal so much with the Health Development Institute or the research and development axes and the prevention axes. I'm sure this steering group can order more tests. He or she shall involve the heads, partners and experts of existing institutions, both outside and in the field of health, in his or her work. I'm sure I agree that it's a nine-fold-meal-one-time-cut question. I am very sorry that the health sector and, you can say, the Estonian state as a whole has moved from the crisis to the crisis. Perhaps, in reality, these connections and connections would, of course, be easier to do in such a calmer time. But the last few years have shown that we do not know when this more peaceful time will come. In fact, in retrospect, I am of the opinion that, if we had at least reviewed these institutions before the crisis, revised functions, partly incorporated, it would have been somewhat easier, in fact, to overcome the virus crisis. Perhaps we see it in a number of areas of government in different ministries, that mergers have given some of these synergies, they reduce duplication and give people the opportunity to rotate there, better prepare for crises, as well as to be a better partner for other ministries. We have a little concern in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs that we have a relatively fragmented system of institutions. In my field, for example, health and work, we have the Health Insurance Fund, the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Labour Inspectorate, the Medicines Agency, the Health Board and the National Institute for Health Development. As I have referred to, there is TECHNIQUE, then there are social institutions, like the SKA, and then there is Astangu. There is also the Commissioner for Equality Policy and so on. So, in fact, it is in the perspective of our partners that makes the way things work somewhat difficult. There is quite a lot of feedback from health institutions and elsewhere that they can go to three or four different supervisors in the Ministry of Social Affairs to evaluate something. That doesn't make any sense either. Here is the question of whether it is possible for them, let us say, to step up their cooperation and merge them within existing structures, or whether it is reasonable to merge these agencies. That must be the conclusion that this steering group must reach. Finally, it is Parliament's decision and the government's decision before that. I continue to think that it is right to set up a joint institution, to some extent the National Institute for Health Development is part of this institution and, to some extent, the Health Insurance Fund contributes. The science side must certainly remain and not only remain, but also supported financially and in political terms, because the science side in the field of health is extremely important, not just in terms of intellectual interest, but directly in terms of the protection of human life and health. So, right now, these processes are only at an early stage. I also saw very powerful headlines in the media. But really nobody here is shut down, nobody is forced to join, but it is a question of how best the work of health authorities could be reorganised and whether it has really been done in the light of this new crisis. Once again, I am sorry that these crises are chasing each other, but this is the reality in which we live.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U11	One more question from the floor. Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I am certainly not the person who opposes the distribution of reasonable assembly, additions and tasks, because in 2010 the Health Board was established in my time and under the auspices of Minister Maret Maripuu. In 2016, the failed event because there was no clear message, there was no strategic plan and the consulting firm clearly stated that such a thing would not work. It is now good to hear that this is at an early stage and is being discussed, because this analysis, which is available to us, which has been carried out in October last year, is going through the consolidation of supervision, although there is an increase in social supervision. It's not serious material for analysis. The headlines are really serious in the press. Not only do the heads of institutions get tough letters about how they get shut down. And I know there are very serious staff leaving at both the Health Board and the Institute for Health Development. How do you look at it? Is this kind of demolition that has already begun good news for the unification?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U13	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U14	Thank you. Indeed, when the Health Board was set up at the time, as I was referring to before, it was certainly the right direction and the right thing was done. But now the question is whether one more step can be taken, as has been done in the field of internal security, for example, now also recently in the field of entrepreneurship or in many other places, where there are actually similar functions, sometimes with different functions, but with institutions operating in a similar field, the state has merged. There is no need for demolition, of course. Perhaps when we are talking about setting up a joint institution, the aim is synergy. The aim is certainly to ensure that people who work in the health sector are put at rest. In this we agree that the Agency, the Health Board, the National Institute for Health Development and all the bodies in the field have done a great deal of work in recent years. When we talk about the EMA, it started before the COVID crisis, with all the pharmacy reform issues that they had to carry, and then the COVID crisis came on smoothly. In turn, Russia's aggression against Ukraine has now come, and it will again provide additional work for all these institutions. Our goal is certainly not to force anyone to leave anywhere or, in a sense, to dismantle someone. On the contrary, the aim is to add, merge, also to review these functions. Whether or not we can get the institutions to join in the initial schedule, this, I say, will be in place in the coming months. Perhaps if it is seen during the spring that these evaluations and analyses of the steering group do not support it, either because of the new crisis or because of the underlying reasons, then a calm time-out must be taken. And when we see that we achieve consensus and can move forward, agree which functions go to, which people and departments that work in the institution, then we can move on. I certainly don't think it's reasonable to deal with this kind of force in a hurry. Now I repeat myself, I apologise for this in advance, but I think it is right to unite institutions in the principle, this axis and direction are right, but this time frame at the moment, this crisis movement is undoubtedly not supporting it. It is simply a reality that today, unfortunately, no one has the capacity and confidence to say that, for example, in two or three years, it will be a more peaceful moment to do so. And perhaps in the future, for example, in the view of the next pandemic, we will look afterwards at the fact that we should have made some decisions as an experience of the COVID-19 crisis and that they cannot be made afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U15	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U16	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and its subject is the state of the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. What is very worrying is the action of the current government, where the state's life is being tried to manage at the level of government regulations and regulations, not through legislative changes and in Parliament. For example, Liina Kersna recently tried to introduce the abolition of the threshold for basic school finals, simply by way of a regulation, instead of amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Luckily, it didn't work. We also saw, during the Korona, the government's order put into effect a risk analysis that essentially imposed forced vaccination on us, unleashed a number of people, including our security structures. Now a victory has been achieved, which once again shows that the government has acted completely wrong. We can also see how very sensitive ideological drafts in Estonian society and forced from Europe are being essentially introduced at the level of ELAK, once again passing past the debate in the large Chamber of Parliament and the debate in the public. For example, hate speech law and now the WHO has been given the right to negotiate only with the European Union on our health issues. But coming to today, there is a war going on in Europe, and people are very concerned about the protection of the population. The previous government started work on this, I hope that your government has now taken action after the initial shutdown of the processes. The question of building shelters had to reach the government's table only at the end of this year. Do we know where they are, what condition they are, how many more they would need to be built, and how much would it all cost? What kind of budget resources are real now, not as foreseen in the RES to enhance public protection and increase our primary defence capacity? And what are the amounts that you actually intend to allocate for all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U18	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! The situation in the region as a whole and certainly also in Estonia is no longer comparable to what it was a year ago because of the war started by Putin. Reactions have been rapid, have been massive at European Union level and have been severe. In Estonia, too, we have made decisions to allocate additional money to a wide range of national defences. In fact, we made these decisions before Putin started the war. In January, the government decided to allocate an additional EUR 380 million to a wide range of national defence. This also includes increasing the money for the protection of the population. It is certainly not necessarily the construction of shelters, but the organisation of shadowing, its reflection and communication are part of the work that received funding. I do not really share your assessment that this rapid and flexible reaction of the government to the change in the situation is a matter that is not reasonable, even if it is necessary to do so by means of regulations. This has been necessary in view of the situation, and I think that this really should be the case. But, as has been said, 380 million, which in January was decided to further allocate to strengthen our security and defence, include, among other things, the protection of the population. So it's already covered with allocated money. Is it necessary to allocate additional money? For what, in particular? There is certainly a willingness to do so, too, should such a need arise. We have, as I am sure you are very well aware, a government reserve fund to cover the very sudden extraordinary expenses that arise in the budget of the current year and are not foreseen in the budget of the current year. This has been an opportunity and a reason to use it already this year, and there are likely to be further decisions this year relating to national security and broad-soil protection, possibly also the protection of the population, which urgently needs to be financed from the government reserve fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U20	And here's a very specific question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Once again, Minister! You said here that things can really be arranged faster at the level of regulations. Yes, it may be appropriate now, but I was still talking about things on my first question, which basically happened when we didn't have any military activity and there was no rush. Could have done these things through Parliament. And right now, let's say, what goes through life, right, these things the same way. I think Parliament and the public would like to hear more about these things. But indeed, the military activities in Ukraine are globalising us into dozens of crises also at national level: energy price increases, food, fuels. Already today, the imminent increase in fuel prices is forecast to be EUR 2,5 per litre of petrol, which in turn will immediately increase prices in all the sectors involved. House expenses, everywhere. It is particularly difficult for people living in rural areas who are directly dependent on road transport, and the availability of all goods and services depends directly on the price of fuels. How should we cope with all this, and what is your vision of the future of the country? The answer cannot be that it is a personal concern for all of us or a common concern for how to cope. The government is not responsible for this situation, it is not like the answer. Also, that there is the same situation elsewhere, we have already heard. We know that the war in Ukraine is drastically redesigning our entire way of life, but yet, when we look at what other countries are doing, governments in all countries are already taking concrete steps, rethinking their energy policy, defence and security policies, dealing with food security, limiting the export of strategic goods from the country, collecting supplies, dealing with priority issues in terms of managing their population. What's your government's plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U22	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! Today, support for Ukraine, support for Ukrainians and response to Putin's start-up military activities are certainly the number one issue for the Western countries. It certainly also involves intra-national... I don't know what it's like to have a questioner leave... Yeah, yeah, I get it. It also includes national decisions. You really referred to energy prices and the situation that we have actually seen at energy prices for a few months. I think it is really clear to everyone now that the Kremlin, the Putin regime, also used energy price manipulation as part of the preparations for the Ukrainian war. In particular, by manipulating prices for the reason that the Western countries are in the process of dealing with their internal flickers when Putin is trying to rob freedom from a European country the size of France. It's been part of this campaign. Putin, the Kremlin uses gas and oil as a weapon. The best way to work, of course, is actually to completely get rid of this essentially life-threatening addiction. These plans and plans, which have now gone into work in other countries of the European Union, are part of this. The release of Russian gas is absolutely the right and sole purpose. Yesterday, the European Commission presented a plan on how to achieve this, and it must work as quickly and fully as possible. There is also a need to make substantial investments in energy efficiency in Estonia so that we use as little energy as possible so that we need to use as little energy as possible. Certainly in the European Union as a whole, capacity building is a very important part of reducing the impact of Russian gas and energy. But, of course, you are talking about today's situation, today's prices. When we talk about the energy price mitigation package, it has been adopted in Estonia, its size was over 300 million euros, and hopefully by now, by spring, it will be enough. But, of course, preparations are already in place for the autumn period. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I would say that, at this point, no option, no possibility, no solution that is wise must be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U24	And now one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U25	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I am very pleased that today we have here the Minister of Finance in the role of Prime Minister. To comment on the previous question, of course, I would say this: the fact that the European Commission is discussing the exit of Russian gas in a ten-year plan cannot be the plan of the Estonian Government. We are faced with the possibility that, basically by the end of this week, Russia will turn its gas tap on Estonia, too, and we will have nothing in that case. It's like there's nothing to do with price compensation. But I'd like to come up with an extra budget. I've heard from your first response that you're planning on taking these extraordinary expenses from the government reserve in connection with the war. I don't think that's quite enough cover. Of course, the Reform Party here has a long and glorious history of national defence, say, an ambivalent attitude. Jürgen Ligi wanted to lose military service in his time and undermined military intelligence. During the ansip, the development plan, which provided us with anti-aircraft and armoured maneuvering capabilities, was cancelled. And last autumn, the Reform Party government adopted a development plan that excluded anti-aircraft again. Well, now it is high time, in wartime, to correct these views, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. Unfortunately, the Reform Party also has a long and glorious history in Excel's table and balanced with budget retention in the fetish. I have a specific question: will the government adjust the plans and come to the Riigikogu immediately with an additional budget that deals with national defence investments, necessary population protection investments, and perhaps with the necessary compensation mechanisms for these energy prices? Or do you really want to continue to do this in the course of planning the usual state budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U26	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U27	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! First of all, do not be alarmed that if Russia decides in response to this large-scale sanction policy that the European Union has done, that if Russia and Putin decide to turn off the gas taps, then this will be followed by disaster. No, I won't. That's what it's meant to be. In fact, our own Estonian Energy Commissioner has already done very serious and strong work to prepare for this. If it should happen that Russia is now turning off the gas taps, then the European Union will be able to complete this heating period. A further approach is to find alternative suppliers that do not depend only on the gas coming from Russia, and how very quickly, where it is possible to replace gas with other energy sources. Of course, it is intended to invest very quickly in creating additional capacities and to remove the cumbersome administrative constraints where they are currently hindering these investments or the creation of real capacities. This plan is in place on the European side; it is already being implemented. Additional budget and additional funding for defence expenditure. First of all, I will again take this opportunity and start by repeating once again that there is no military threat to Estonia at this time. This is important because anxiety in society is actually very great. But, of course, to strengthen and support our security, everything that is necessary must be done. As has been said, we decided in January to allocate an additional EUR 380 million to very high defence costs. And the decision we made in January was to buy additional ammunition, defence equipment, that is, among other things, to buy Javeline and Stingers. To date, we know that these are the ones that have proved to be the most effective in the war in Ukraine, so it has certainly been the right and sensible decision. Thanks to the fact that we made this decision, to allocate additional money, already in January, we now know that we actually saved EUR 100 million. Or, in other words, if we were still making decisions and starting to get the same things we need, we would pay EUR 100 million more for it or we would get less necessary ammunition for 100 million. Times are just different now, including delivery times. Is there a need for an additional budget? Is there a need for additional loans? Once again, none of these options can currently be ruled out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Everything that needs to be done must be done. And no possibility that is wise can be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U28	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U29	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, member of the Riigikogu, and Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer this. The subject is the division of society. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U30	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns the validity of the korona passports and the corona restrictions, which continue to divide Estonian society, divide into two. They generate completely pointless additional costs, which could go to the development of health care systems and to the implementation of planned treatment. Today, the situation is that the corona passport in our neighbouring countries has not been in force for a long time. Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Lithuania and also Latvia have made their decisions; we are the only ones here [still restricted]. It is now the case that people with a corona pass and people without a corona pass can be together in public transport, travel by bus, train, and taxi, they can be together at meetings, conferences, and work, they sit at the same table in the office. But at the same time they can't go to a movie for two hours or from the same office to a single table for lunch together, then there's a risk of infection if they go to lunch for half an hour, even though they're in the office together for ten hours. This is a completely irrational situation. I'm thinking about restrictions, too. Now a limit was imposed on the world biathlon cup stage, outdoors, participants in a scattered event, spectators. At the same time, thousands of people are together in Saku Suurhall, for example. It's all so irrational. People do it to gain freedom of movement and active participation in society, PCR tests that spend millions of money every month, which could go to family doctors, for example, or elsewhere in the health care system. I understand that there is now a ray of hope that the government will make a decision and the corona pass will end. But is anyone responsible for the millions that have been wasted in vain?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U31	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U32	Thank you. Indeed, what you have finally achieved is that we have actually made several decisions in the government during February. Perhaps when this debate was raised in February, under the leadership of the Centre Party, we agreed on the first reliefs. Since mid-February, the COVID certificate is not asked for by minors, it is not asked for outside. These are decisions that could have been taken even earlier, especially on the external side, as it was supported by both the previous and the current scientific council. However, I think that also for children [could have lost the passport requirement in the past], as minors themselves are not necessarily the ones who decide on their own vaccination. We also agreed at the time, following a discussion in the coalition, on specific criteria when the national COVID certificate would disappear more widely. About 25 symptomatic patients hospitalized, 10 days average, was the level we were in back then. It can be said that we have now clearly risen from this level for several weeks, but once again in decline and probably reaching 25 on the weekend, no later than the beginning of the new week. Yesterday, we agreed on a separate technical basis at government level that we would then hold a telephone session, after which both the requirement for a COVID certificate and the time limit would be removed. In this light, these reliefs are, you can say, a matter of days, not weeks or months anymore. I think that with this decision, however, we will be ahead of Latvia, if we now compare it with our neighbours, because in the case of Latvia, as far as I know, this date is 1 April when the national COVID certificate disappears. Could [these decisions] have been made sooner? Well, there were different opinions. There was a coalition discussion between two government partners and there was also the position of the Scientific Advisory Panel, which did not support faster mitigation. What we do not know is exactly what the effect of a specific restriction, the effect of mitigation, or what would have happened if we had made these decisions differently. It can only be theorized. You're asking me what the cost of these measures has been. I think that, to sum up, the cost of all these COVID restrictions has still been positive in the view that they as a whole have helped to prevent and reduce infection, increase vaccination coverage, thereby protecting people's life and health and coming through the pandemic stronger. If you look at Estonia in comparison with other countries, I believe that here you agree with me that our restrictions have been rather gentle. Yes, perhaps now the countries with higher vaccination coverage have made more rapid reliefs, but in reality today in Estonia too, society is practically open. We have never had a curfew, we have never had an outdoor masking requirement, we have never had fines or compulsory vaccinations for vaccination, as in very many European countries, and also among the same countries you have just mentioned, say, in the immediate region, among the southern neighbours. Perhaps we've rather been gentle, liberal. This is also demonstrated by our growth and entrepreneurship figures, that we have thus come through the crisis with relatively modest losses compared to perhaps some countries with stricter restrictions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U33	The question to be specified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U34	Thank you. I really hope that the government will come to an agreement in the coming days and make a sensible decision. In this respect, I agree with you that our limitations, compared with many other countries in general, have not been the strictest, but there have been an enormous number of contradictions, illogicality and injustices among our restrictions. That is why we are, I think, in charge of the European countries. But that's it. My supplementary question concerns a very topical issue: refugees. Well, we know that war refugees also have several statuses: those who have arrived before today, when certain criteria enter into force, and those who arrive afterwards, and Ukrainian citizens and not Ukrainian citizens, are treated very differently, as well as Estonian citizens. Can you briefly explain to whom, and to what extent now, access to healthcare is extended first? Can it be said that refugees have the same rights as those insured by Estonian citizens? Or are there differences? What about their employment opportunities and work permits? Who will finance the extra costs of refugees and what? Has the government made a decision? Local authorities are very interested in this issue, as they also receive, to a large extent, additional costs, which are likely to be long-term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U35	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U36	Thank you. Very well-founded theme setting. I'll try to explain quickly what the difference is. It is currently agreed in Europe that all people leaving Ukraine who will receive temporary protection after 24 February or from the date that Russia attacked Ukraine, come from that country. In order to be granted temporary protection, it must be applied for separately. It's not automatic. It is issued and granted on the basis of the PBGB's temporary residence permit for a period of one year. These people really have the right to receive all health care services, just like the people who live here. Certain differences may arise, for example, in drug incentives and other benefits for which mechanisms are somewhat more complex. There is certainly a need for further review of the legal side here. The difference can also come in as to whether it is a child, an elderly person or a professional person, as there are different health services for Estonian residents. For example, dental care for minors is free of charge, there are certain benefits for the elderly, there are fewer benefits for working age and so on. For other people who have been here before, these criteria apply broadly when we talk about the people of Ukraine, which they had before. For example, if a person has worked here, he or she has health insurance because he or she actually works physically and pays social tax, or rather his or her employer pays social tax for him or her. Older people also enjoy these benefits by virtue of their legal status. We won't change their status. However, there is a proposal in the government that we come before Parliament, namely to extend their right to work here. When we talk about short-term workers who have 365 days within 455 days, or seasonal workers who have 270 days within 365 days, we actually want to extend their permits. In the current crisis situation, it is probably not reasonable for people who are contributing here to return to their homeland. Maybe they should go to places where it's not even physically possible to return. It would make even less sense if they were to commute to go to Ukraine in the meantime, then to cross the border of the European Union again and then to seek temporary protection. It's an unhumane and inadequate option. So the rights of these people and the services they receive apply in the same way as before. Our proposal to Parliament is indeed this: to extend their right to work here so that they can continue to have the same services, health insurance, so that they can contribute to the job, support their family here and so on. As far as the extra costs are concerned, I very much agree that these volumes are so significant that we have to look at it in the government. This is probably an additional budget issue, as the financial needs are in the health, social, labour market, education, culture, internal security and local authorities. We are actually talking about tens, if not hundreds of millions of euros. It can be said that the health budget per person per year is 1300 euros, for example, for every person living in Estonia. If there are 10,000 people, simple mathematics shows that we are talking about an amount of EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U37	And now for an additional question. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, I also hope that you will have the opportunity to make a telephone call on the weekend and, at national level, both the corona pass and the time limit will disappear. I'm sure the time is ripe for that. Perhaps a little earlier would have been [may have done so]. Since, on the first question, I did not have the opportunity to ask the third question, I am using it right here. This concerns the so-called state reform of health institutions and the formation of a steering group. Perhaps in this very debate you will also resolve the issue of the sickness fund. Very clearly, a positive option, the word 'health fund', is often used. We all know that we have the Health Insurance Act in Estonia. I agree that a good child may have several names. But the way in which the "health fund" is used and then the "sick fund" is used raises questions and confusion among people. If it needs to be resolved by amending a law, the Committee on Social Affairs is certainly ready for this, but at the moment it raises a lot of questions, because the same institution is called by two different names and there is, in fact, no indication in the law that we could call it that. We do not call the Ministry of Social Coherence or, if we do, just some joke key, we still call it the Ministry of Social Affairs. Perhaps this would also be an issue that needs to be resolved. Since I have a few more minutes, I will ask you what you probably missed in answering the previous question. Although it's not exactly your area of expertise, but still. This concerns the elderly, who have come from Ukraine, on the subject of their pensions. If you know anything about this subject, maybe you'd like to comment a little bit. I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U39	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U40	Thank you. I'm starting with Ukraine. First, I'm gonna start with the fact of myself. I accidentally said before that the health costs of 10,000 people are 100 million a year, they are still in the order of 10 million a year and a little bit more. This 100 million would be calculated on the basis of the fact that, for every Estonian citizen, we have an annual cost of EUR 10000 in the state budget. Perhaps, figuratively speaking, every 10,000 people in addition can potentially represent a cost to the country of 100 million. It's kind of a well-made ax method calculation. Of course, everything depends on whether a person works and contributes back, whether he is elderly or a child, and so on. But just these volumes, the scale we are talking about, are no longer measurable in millions, but in tens, if not even in hundreds of millions, in the longer term. Okay. The other side is the pension rights of the Ukrainian people. Our proposal really is that due to their legal space, they will receive a national pension. They do not have a career here, so they do not have a normal pension here, they do not have a first-to-second pillar, they do not have a third, but they are entitled to a national pension, just as people of working age who register at the unemployment fund are entitled to unemployment benefit until they find a job. I think it makes sense for us to, on the one hand, say, provide people with the support they need to live and cope with, but at the same time we also keep them on account at the unemployment fund, for example. It gives us an overview of how many people work from them, and it gives us the opportunity to provide labour market services. Another option would be that they would be merely beneficiaries of income support in the local government, for example, on the basis of purely social assistance. Now, the question about the health fund. Yeah, a good kid with several names. If you remember, once upon a time, both the Health Insurance Board and the Unemployment Insurance Board supported this change of name. At the time, there was an obstacle due to advertising costs or information costs. They were designed to change the name of the health insurance fund into a health insurance fund and also to change the name of the unemployment fund into a work fund. It was some governments back when it was a debate. I think that name changes are reasonable in the principle, but there is no need for such a large-scale campaign or for money to be allocated. I agree that it would make sense, in the context of the broader reform of the state, to make these changes in names. This is certainly not a priority, but as a principle, especially now, if we want to emphasise more and more that the unemployment fund is not a place for the unemployed, but for people who want to find a job, to improve themselves, to learn the language, to develop digital skills and so on, then the word "work fund" or some other similar name is more up-to-date and appropriate than the "job fund." In the same way, the concept of health fund does not convey the idea of health promotion and health care, which we are increasingly trying to oppress, knowing that we can contribute primarily to the rise of people's healthy lives through healthier lifestyles, health-friendly environments and health-aware behaviour, much less to the way in which we provide services to people in hospitals when they are already ill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U42	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. The subject is relations with Russia. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot simply, I must comment a little on the answers of the previous minister, and I will take the words of the leader of one party currently not represented in the Riigikogu. The conclusion of your answers is that the Estonians should have their pastels and zithers. All the rest are privileged, except Estonians who do not receive dental care or health insurance and who have to survive all triage and reduction of scheduled treatment. But the rest of us who come to the country are privileged and get everything. Thanks for all this. This is an excellent message for our good people, who support Ukraine from the body and soul. But to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have a question. Our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania have made a bold and pragmatic decision: no longer issuing visas to citizens of the Russian Federation. We know that the urge from the Russian Federation to the Baltic countries is now very great. There was some news this morning that our embassy in Moscow and the consulate in St. Petersburg, I think, also in Pihkva, were overloaded. Desperate masses are those who wish to receive an Estonian visa, who seek all possible connections with Estonia in order to justify the need for their Estonian visa. All of this, along with immigration, with war refugees from Ukraine, means a very serious demographic pressure for us, but also a security problem, because we see very clearly how we are now importing a conflict between the two brothers, and we also see very clearly how, under the name of those people who come here from the Russian Federation in particular, the agents of the Russian special services can also infiltrate our territory. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] My question to you is very simple: does the Republic of Estonia intend to stop issuing visas to citizens of the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U44	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! First of all, I would like to reflect back your first comment and confirm that the Ukrainian war refugees arriving here will be guaranteed the same health insurance that everyone in Estonia has. There is therefore no intention of giving or guaranteeing them anything more. But now to your question. Indeed, Estonia is also considering a unilateral decision to end the visa for the Russian people. I would point out that those countries that have now taken such a decision have made it, along with the accompanying exceptions, such as those for family members, with exceptions for humanitarian reasons and so on, which in fact leave the visa procedures open. Estonia's consideration here today has been clearly unambiguous: it would make sense to make this decision at European Union level. And that is what we have raised in Europe to have a common position on this issue. In Estonia, now I would respond exactly to this security aspect, and nothing has changed in this respect in our activities. Estonia always makes all the considerations when granting a visa and the visa is still given to persons who do not pose security risks. Estonia is, of course, currently reviewing its consular activities. Above all, of course, we are giving a visa to those people who have humanitarian considerations, who have family members, and we are practically unable to deal with tourist wigs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U46	And now the point to be clarified. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U47	Thank you. Well, reality control is still incomplete on the government side. Virtual money is intended to increase internal security and the protection of the population. Well, if you're telling me that all the people of Estonia are covered by health insurance, then you do live on another planet. If you think that all Estonian people get dental care free, you live on another planet. It's not like that. Not all Estonian people are insured, and not all Estonian people receive all the treatment services. It's a reality. Make that reality check for yourself, step down from Stenbock's house, down the hill, and go among the simple people. But the question is about foreign policy. You have repeatedly taken the view in this Chamber that the Estonian-Russian border agreement must go further. After February 24th, when Russia started the war in Ukraine, do you also agree that the Estonian-Russian border treaty needs to be moved forward? Because we know very well that neither the war in Georgia nor the war in Ukraine has prevented the border agreements concluded between the two countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U48	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! I'm going back here a few weeks ago. Even when the Russian Federation recognised the independence of two Ukrainian regions, I said that it is not important for Estonia to deal with border agreements now either, because there are many other, internationally important issues that we need to take into account and deal with in our foreign and security policy. Of course, the events that began on 24 February, or the war started by Russia against Ukraine, changed this situation even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U50	And now one more question. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I wanted to ask you whether the government has been discussed or whether you have discussed, for example, bilaterally, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, what is this pattern of behaviour if we run into the fifth column in Estonia when there are pro Russian interventions et cetera, et cetera. Does the government have any plan to isolate these people, take their residence permit away from them, and most importantly, mercilessly expel them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U52	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U53	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr President, thank you for this very important question. The government has discussed different options to deal with exactly what happens in Estonia when the activities supporting the aggressor take place in Estonia. For example, the Government of the Republic recently passed a law that does not support the fact that individuals who have obtained Estonian citizenship will join the army of the aggressor. So these are the steps taken by the government. Of course, the Estonian state also deals with the side of how to prevent these activities within Estonia. This is the area of competence of the Defence Police and the agency is involved in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U55	Let's move on to the next question, that's five. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the duties of Prime Minister. The topic is a very interesting state budget. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U56	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Last year, when the Government of the Republic prepared and completed the country's budget strategy, there was a reduction in defence costs. Fortunately, when the state budget was put together, it reached the same numbers and, in reality, we know that, fortunately, there was no reduction in the state budget. Negotiation of the country's budgetary strategy is also underway. What are our defence costs there in terms of gross domestic product, of course, if you can say numbers are emerging? We know that, in the meantime, the government has gathered and made a decision in the area of security concerning EUR 380 million, but the Minister of Defence has said in the Committee on State Budget Control that this year it will reach EUR 2.4 million in this area of defence. I have the question: is the government planning to come before the Riigikogu with an additional budget to fill the defence gaps? Several people have talked about this, including the Euro Parliamentary Ambassador, Riho Terras, who has said that the Estonian state would need a billion-dollar loan to fill the state's defence gaps. What's the government plan? Will this whole issue be left to the next governments, or is the current government planning to do something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U57	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U58	Thank you, good speaker! Good questioner! I now apologise, but I must take this opportunity to respond to one of the statements that did not sound from you, but one of the previous questioners took to claim and say that people in Ukraine fleeing their homes from war and reaching a safe place in Estonia are somehow privileged because we provide them with shelter and that they have the opportunity to provide medical care to keep themselves safe. In my opinion, this is the absolute peak of cynicism, which has sounded like this in this House. I want to take this opportunity, and once again thank you to all those people who have found the opportunity to provide support and support in the most appropriate way possible, all those people who are currently fleeing from the war terrors in Ukraine. Every third person who has reached Estonia is a small child. One in three is a little kid! They are not privileged, but have fled from their homes and seen things that no child or any human should have to endure. Now, to come to your question, thank you for this question. Indeed, the allocation of an additional EUR 380 million to a wide range of national defence funds already decided means, among other things, that defence costs will also increase this year, although they were indeed the highest in history this year, but are likely to reach 2,33%. If we are now talking about absolute numbers, this percentage may be confusing for many, I will say that this year it will be EUR 755 million at present. It cannot be ruled out that more decisions are needed in the course of the year, which directly adds money to the defence sector. The level of defence expenditure next year will be 2.44% of our GDP, which is also at the expense of additional money, and this means that the current decisions will reach EUR 827 million and in 2024 they will exceed EUR 900 million. Is there a need for an additional budget? We do not rule out anything that is wise in these circumstances. I'm sure we'll listen to military advice, listen to defense advice. This advice has now been this: to wait and analyse quickly the war in Ukraine and to decide more precisely what the most effective defence capabilities need to be invested in. In addition, of course, we are making an effort and preparing all negotiations with our allies. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We have collective defence, which means that the allies' contribution to the security of our region and Estonia is also very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U59	A procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U60	Thank you, Mr President. I am, of course, sorry that I react so late, but the point is that Mrs Liimetsa's reply to the honourable Mart Helme question was completely breathless, and basically I could not react as quickly as I needed to. In reply to Mart Helme's question, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Eva-Maria Liimets, announced that the Government of the Republic of Estonia had adopted laws. The government is adopting laws. I would now like to know whether there have been some very important processes in the meantime, so that the Riigikogu no longer adopts laws. Or is it done together? We know that orders issued by the Government of the Republic are not always compatible with the Constitution. But for me, it is extremely surprising that Eva-Maria Liimets reveals a great secret: the government is adopting laws. So tell me, good George Ratas, have I really missed some very important moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U61	Thank you. We continue to be a parliamentary state and the laws are passed by the Riigikogu. I hope you're well, too. When you said "breathless," I immediately tripped. But I hope everything's okay now. Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U62	Thank you very much for that good line. I'm gonna give you a guarantee that I'm okay, which means I'm not soulless. But I'm still sticking to the fact that Eva-Maria Liimets said that the government was adopting laws. How do you comment on that? We have this parliamentary thing right here. Then why does the Government of the Republic pass laws? I deal with Livsa's answers this way, and I have to believe them. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U63	Thank you. I do not have this exact text in front of me, but the point was that it is done in cooperation. The Government of the Republic is able to initiate laws, then decide on these initiatives at government level and send them to the Riigikogu. Laws are passed only by the Riigikogu in Estonia, the 101 members who are here, no one else. Kalle Grünthal, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U64	I apologize for my third procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U65	It's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U66	The thing is, I realize you don't have this verbogram in front of you, but sometimes I even remember some things when they say it directly. Mrs. Liimets said the Government of the Republic just passed the law. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U67	Thank you. I'll stick to my last two answers. The Riigikogu adopts laws. That's right. Okay, now there's a clarification question. I'm trying to... Yeah, that's the point. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't get excited. Looks like Grünthal's recovered, breathing was fine, he's in his old goodness, and he's asking a lot of procedural questions again. But I'd like to keep going. I understand, Minister, that there is no plan to come before Parliament at the moment with an additional change in the state budget. If I understand, this year the defence budget will receive an increase of 2.4 million euros. Although you said that if the situation changes and there is a need, you would be prepared to do so. I've seen the Commander of the Defence Forces say that they can make use of all the resources available. The Minister of Defence has said in this way: "We need to increase national defence funding; whether we can do so from the state budget or whether we need to borrow from it, the Minister of Finance should say how our financial capacity is. " I am now asking how the Minister of Defence did not know whether you had discussed the financial capacity. It is true that we are reasonable to listen to experts from the Ukrainian war, but I do not think that anyone is better prepared for this situation than those who have foreseen these threats. And we have a ten-year defence investment plan that would probably make sense in the current context to be realised more quickly than [foreseen]. Has the government discussed these issues? Do you see the need for this and do you have a plan to come to Parliament on this issue too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U69	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U70	Thank you, good speaker! Good questioner! As has been said, the decision already made in January concerns 380 million laissez-passers for our national defence. Most of this goes to the acquisition of additional equipment, additional ammunition, which means, among other things, that we have actually already made a decision to actually buy and obtain, for example, Javeline, also for example Stingers, which has proved to be the most effective in Ukraine. Right now, at the moment that we have the 14th day of the war started by Putin, there has been military advice and defence advice to wait and analyse the war in Ukraine, say, lessons and indeed to use it as an input to transform possible additional decisions or decisions that have already been made. This will certainly be done as soon as possible and without any delay. I still stress once again, among other things, that NATO's principle is collective defence, which means that security is guaranteed collectively. Therefore, all the decisions that our allies have made to strengthen the security of our region, including Estonia, will improve and strengthen our security, defence. Today, indeed, we have more allies than ever before in Estonia. We now have a British battalion in the NATO Forward Present battle group, a French company. An additional British battalion will be arriving for us in the next few weeks. The increased presence is planned to be left in Estonia for several months. More British soldiers arrive in Estonia with technology. There is also a Danish company in Estonia. Our airspace is protected by the most powerful fighter planes in the United States, including the Belgian Air Force F-16 aircraft. There will soon be an air contingent in France. Perhaps these are the steps that our allies have taken in addition. We are certainly extremely grateful for these decisions, but all of this means that, of course, we also have to make further efforts ourselves. We will continue to negotiate with our allies in various ways, and we will do everything in our power of defence to really exponentially increase. Is an additional budget needed? As I have said many times today, it is possible that it is necessary, and we are ready to do so, to come to Parliament with it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But there are still ways to strengthen and improve the security situation, and we really forge them all, because this is absolutely the most important, priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U71	And now one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The whole world is shocked by what is happening in Ukraine and is following with concern the war that is taking place there. Estonia, our government, the current government, has also taken many decisions on how to support Ukraine, including financially and in different ways. But at the same time, we must not forget that it is not so safe and courageous to be in our own country. We cannot rule out that the possible target of military aggression may be Estonia next. In this context, I would like to know the amounts for which are supported, the activities to ensure the protection of the population in Estonia will be financed. What amounts are targeted at this in the state budget or, exceptionally, are targeted to ensure the protection of our population if we happen to be the target of military aggression?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U73	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U74	Thank you. There is no military threat to Estonia. Even this type of speculation at the level of Parliament is certainly not meaningful or sensible in a situation where there is obviously a great deal of anxiety among people. Everything that reaches us from Ukraine will not only come through the television picture or the Internet, but will already come directly and directly through those people who have reached Estonia in search of a safe place to stay. This is terrible and, of course, there is a lot of concern. So I really ask that you, too, who certainly has an important support group, confirm the best knowledge that is: there is no immediate military threat to Estonia at this time. I'm sure it's important. When your question concerned an additional decision to allocate EUR 380 million, I would say that an additional EUR 4.5 million was also allocated to the Rescue Board in order to contribute to the development of the protection of the population, to prepare it and to carry out the necessary activities. The Police and Border Guard Board has also been allocated just over EUR 22 million, including the protection of the population as well as the development of crisis preparedness, by a decision taken in January. This is additional money, in addition to what has already been included in the budget and which Parliament has approved. Indeed, under the current circumstances, this has certainly been an important and necessary contribution. As the year progresses, as the days progress, there is a situation where there is a need to allocate money quickly, then the fastest way to do so is the government reserve fund. This requires a decision by the government, and we are certainly ready to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U75	Kert Kingo, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U76	Thank you! I would ask the President of the sitting either to instruct separately or to draw the attention of the ministers that we do not have a psychic fire test here. We have a parliament where ministers must take a responsible view of what is happening in the world and of what effects our country may have, rather than predicting and guessing here, I do not know what.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U78	Let us move on to the next question. This is the sixth question, submitted by Riigikogu member Rene Kokk, is answered by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, and the subject is the availability of emergency medicine. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U79	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, First of all, I have a suggestion or a suggestion that you stop wearing that mask. Pull yourself together in the government. It's time to throw it in the trash of history, at least for this time. But the question. After all, for a long time now, the problem is that we have discussed it here too, that we have very long queues behind emergency medical doors. People often wait there for hours and hours with their worries. I certainly recognise the doctors and medical staff who are involved in this work, and I have no reproach for it. But something has to be done. Unfortunately, in the last few years, there have also been a few or three times. This waiting period is still unreasonable. It's an unreasonable time to wait outside the ER. Any plans on how to reduce it? Because some time ago Dr. Arkadi Popov on a radio show said that yes, we have to face the fact that we are bringing medical services from small places to cities. What's your plan? Is there still a plan to provide high-quality medical care and support emergency medicine in the future, not only in Tallinn, but also in the county centres? Or are we headed to the city alone [with medical assistance available] and continue with the same queues? Do you have any steps in your work to reduce queues in emergency medicine? And what kind of plans are there with county hospitals, are they still supporting their activities and making sure that all medicine is not concentrated only in major cities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U80	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U81	Thank you. Starting from the background, it can be said that we have had a COVID-19 pandemic for the last few years, which has actually aggravated these problems several times. From one point of view, there have been more visitors to the emergency department, and on the other, there have been a number of situations where healthcare professionals have really had to be away because of an infection, for example. But in normal times, you can say, even before the pandemic, the ER queues have been rather long. There are two main reasons. One is the overall structure, structure and financing of the health sector. This is such a longer-term issue, because we have too few health professionals per capita, we have a shortage of nurses, we have a shortage of doctors. The solution is, for example, that we have agreed a consensus agreement between the health sector and the education sector that the admission of nurses will be gradually increased from the current 8500 to the 12000 sisters by 2030. There are also a large number of other health professionals whose number of admissions we raise. Of course, it is important that they also have jobs and decent wages and that we do not simply train health professionals for foreign countries, for example. The other side, which is also a long-term concern, is that very much is being addressed to the EMO, the emergency department, with health concerns that are not really exceptional. Perhaps the question here is, at what point is it reasonable to go there or when a call to the family doctor's counselling line 1220 is sufficient, or when it is appropriate to address your family doctor/family nurse. The question here is that perhaps not everyone has such a good relationship with a family doctor or is not a person on the family doctor's list and, for that reason, goes in line with some of the concerns that are not really time-critical, but, to sum up, it contributes to the extension of this order. It is certainly right to go to the ER if there are time-critical health problems, any trauma or other such situations. In case of unavoidable help, you can, of course, call an ambulance if there is an even more critical situation. But with such less serious health concerns, it is reasonable to start with your family doctor/family nurse or family doctor's counselling line 1220. It actually gives the EMOs an opportunity to focus on their core work. Now the other half, maybe county hospitals. Well, I still think that health services must be available across the country. It is certainly not conceivable that a person is going to travel with extraordinary concern, I don't know, tens or hundreds of miles from one side of the country to another. This is why today the hospital network system is such that there is at least one hospital network hospital in each county, and several hospitals in some counties. As a principle, I think this approach makes sense. Of course, this also requires the availability of health professionals, before I referred to the consensus agreement, and there are a number of debates and questions about hospital funding at the moment. We have a certain pilot based on the example of Hiiumaa Hospital, which is financed by a separate basic budget, not by the usual amount of health care as others do. Well, that's a point of thought, is it possible to use this type of financing model in other counties, which gives the hospital greater confidence in how it works?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U82	The question to be specified. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U83	Thank you. I do not really want to agree that there are many people in the ER who should not be there, although they certainly do. In my opinion, the reception system works pretty well, the medics are gonna check out before the person gets to the ER door, who should be there in the first place, who isn't. Those who are not supposed to be there are generally sent away quite specifically. However, the queues are very long, sometimes even six or seven hours. But now, coming back to what is in some ways connected with emergency assistance, we are helping the war refugees from Ukraine and, to some extent, putting pressure on our medical system in its own right. But the question here is specific. How we stand in the country with rabies medicines and vaccines. Rabies is known to be under very good control in Estonia, and in this sense the authorities who have vaccinated against rabies and are sowing the necessary medicines in the forests each year have done a very good job. But we know there's gonna be a lot of war refugees coming here with pets. And we also know that there are problems with rabies outside Estonia, our neighbouring countries and Ukraine. Are we ready to have rabies cases in Estonia? Because we've actually lived in a time where we practically haven't had such things in years and years. Are we ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U84	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U85	Thank you for your question. We have, of course, mapped out the possible health concerns and needs of war refugees both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole, in general, each country will, of course, do this work on the ground in concrete terms. Perhaps it is true that in Ukraine, for example, vaccination coverage is lower than in Estonia, for almost all vaccines, and also the national immunisation plan is somewhat different from our own. Here, the Agency has actually done this work, and the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which has already become known in the past, during the COVID pandemic, has also made recommendations and tables on which vaccines and medicines should be stored. We have also reviewed our national reserves. I can't tell you the amounts of rabies vaccine or the corresponding drugs by heart, of course, but these maps have really been made, the estimates have been made. The truth is that we probably need to acquire additional medicines, which we have taken into account in our own calculations and maps. We also see, according to the original forecasts, that this number of people can also exceed the 10,000 limit, that it has already practically materialised or is realising. This also means that, of course, every 1,000 people who arrive here will be higher than this. What can we do ourselves in Estonia to protect our own life and health at all times, not only because of the refugee of war, but more broadly? You will be vaccinated in a timely manner and ensure that our children have been vaccinated against infectious diseases under a national immunisation programme. This is all known to be available free of charge to humans for the immunisation programme. Perhaps here is a good point for us to perhaps review ourselves so that we do not give ourselves the basis and opportunity to develop any pandemics, just as the COVID-19 pandemic has been haunting our country and our people for the last few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U86	Additional question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On 28 February, I read a post in the social media at the North Estonian Regional Hospital, where they point out that the regional hospital's trauma centre is ready to receive and treat victims of war injuries from Ukraine if necessary. A very good appeal and, of course, all countries should help Ukraine in this difficult situation. But at the same time, for quite some time now, we have limited scheduled treatment or even stopped it for our own people who have been in line for a long time, whether because of the need to replace the hip joint or because of gallstone surgery. Planned treatment is limited in all areas, not in such a way that only one field. And the reason is that the hospitals have been overloaded because of the corona, the capacity of the hospitals is critical. I have a question now. As the planned treatment is still limited to its own people, our people in Estonia, and people are not getting help, I ask: how has the capacity of hospitals now increased, so that it is possible to take more patients from outside, from other countries? But it is not possible to offer your people the treatment you have been expecting for a long time. How has this capacity now increased? Please explain to me, I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U88	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U89	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, in the area of health, underfunding has been a concern for decades. It's a reality. This is where we start, [if we want to understand] why we are even talking about the plans for treatment deficit and long queues. We talked about them before the pandemic. So it is not a problem that has arisen in two years, but it is a problem that has deepened over two years. The order of the planned treatment is very different from the view that hospitals have not gone to hit or cut one table, so to speak, but to the COVID departments, the units are open on a need-based basis. For example, some of the specialties have been brought together by 10% to 20%, and in worse cases, the entire department is closed than there are more COVID patients. In this sense, access to scheduled care in some specialties, such as outpatient visits, has even improved as a result of more outpatient work, inpatient or hospital care services, such as long-term operations, which also require recovery, and, unfortunately, in intensive care, the queues have moved longer. Surely the Estonian health care system is coping with this crisis, we have actually managed quite well, given the number of health care workers and the duration of the pandemic. For two years, it has exhausted all of us, so I want to thank and acknowledge all health professionals here. As regards helping Ukrainian war refugees and not just helping war refugees, because in this case you referred to the treatment of the people affected by the Ukrainian war, I think it is our moral duty to support them at a difficult moment. Of course, Estonia can and must do so according to its abilities. In the European Union, we have mapped out crisis management systems, which are national opportunities. Estonia has said that we are talking about 53 beds in size, where we are able to offer this treatment, in fact in different disciplines, perhaps not everything is necessarily in case of trauma. These healers can come in very many different areas, as we know that the Russian military forces have attacked hospitals and other civilian objects with the utmost cynicism, which means that access to medical services on the ground has also decreased as a result. The European Union is cooperating well here; Estonia is contributing according to its abilities. But, fortunately, the European Union is a large community with 440 million people in this light, it will certainly be able to provide considerable support and assistance to the Ukrainian people. We're doing our part. I think that this is our moral duty, first of all, and, second of all, he is right in content in the view that if there should be a more serious crisis in Estonia, any humanitarian disaster, any natural disaster, or any other such cause, even a pandemic, the same COVID-19 or any future, then we want and want to be helped at a difficult time. In fact, some countries have shown this readiness in the past. It can be said that, in the light of this pandemic, several countries in the European Union have cooperated with each other that they have hospitalised patients. I think it is such a sign of solidarity and a sign of solidarity and, in any case, it is right to contribute according to our abilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U91	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, member of the Riigikogu, meets the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets and the topic is supporting Ukraine. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U92	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! So he is that war sowes fears, and there are prayers between them. These prayers sounded from the Ukrainians a few days ago when I was in Ukraine. In short, the message is clear: close, good Europeans, heaven, not your eyes. These messages actually sounded throughout all the meetings. We had several meetings: a meeting with the local mayor in Lvivi, a meeting with the governor and a meeting with the representative of the Friendship Group of the Estonian-Ukraine Parliament. The Ukrainians are very strong warriors, they are very willing to fight. The main concerns discussed at these meetings concern civilians, all those children, women, and the elderly who are fleeing from war. Ukrainian soldiers are devastated by the fact that the agreements they are trying to make with the aggressor do not have to. One question for us is whether we are prepared to intervene as an Estonian state, to initiate the closure of airspace and to create a no-fly zone. Today, too, we have received a clear request from the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. What's the state of play in your view? It is clear that Estonia cannot do this alone; we can do this together. But a debate must be held. What's our status? And what kind of perspective do you see on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U93	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U94	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! First of all, I would like to clarify what has been said in my previous reply: I had in mind the legislation of the government, not the law. But now I come to your very important, serious and certainly sad question. Of course, the international community is making an effort to help end the war and to ensure that the aggressor stops bombing civilians and leaves the sovereign territory of Ukraine. The requests for assistance from Ukraine have reached all of us, both the Member States of the European Union, NATO Member States and other democratic countries, and we are discussing what opportunities are. When we talk about those organisations that have countries that have this technical opportunity to create a no-fly zone for Ukraine, there is now a very clear understanding, as has also been said by the NATO Secretary-General, that NATO does not want to intervene in this military conflict or engage in military activities with the Russian Federation. According to NATO, which has military capabilities to offer such a no-fly zone over Ukraine, it is not ready to do so. There are also considerations to this end, [why] does not recommend an extension of military activities. The aim is still to get Russia to stop its military activities, and in this direction we have several steps in the work. One is support for Ukraine, with defence technology and ammunition. More than 20 similar countries have done so today. Secondly, the price of war will be increased for the Russian Federation. To date, almost all democratic countries in the world have joined these international sanctions. With regard to the debate on the same issue in the UN Security Council, there too is this issue under discussion. The focus is now on how to ensure humanitarian corridors. Unfortunately, the last week has not produced any results in order for the Security Council to make a decision on this. As we know, the Security Council has been set up to address issues of world peace and security. The Security Council also has a mandate to issue decisions that are mandatory for states to comply with. However, since one member of the Security Council is Russia, or aggressor, it is clear that it would veto this decision now. Perhaps this decision is not coming from there now, but there are discussions on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U95	Now, the question to be specified. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U96	Thank you. Of course, at these meetings we always asked how else we could help Ukraine. The answers were: first, no-fly area; second, no-fly area; third, no-fly area; and fourth, many other things. It is, of course, quite interesting to hear that we are reaching, with such a European debate, that it is as if the European and UN Security Council should be discussing this issue together with the aggressor who has started the war. It's weird for me. But how do you assess whether, in addition to looking at NATO Member States, there could be some kind of extra power, an anti-war coalition with this capability, so that in fact, there will be intervention? How important do you consider the initiative of the Estonian state in this matter? Is this about putting your head in the fire, or is it really a fight for justice and peace? Or is it rather aggression in the context of triggering an additional war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U97	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U98	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! Thank you for the opportunity to provide further explanations on this issue, because this is an important issue. Indeed, the international community is thinking about how this unjustified war in Ukraine will be brought to an end. First, I'll explain what a no-fly zone means. This means that it is agreed that other aircraft will not fly in Ukrainian airspace. It must be enforced by force. That means there's gotta be some planes out there to enforce it. The Estonian state does not have these planes, so that is why it is certainly very difficult for us to play a first-hand role here, because we do not have the means to do so ourselves. That is why it will certainly be more a forum for discussion for those countries that have this capacity, and then it will be up to these countries to decide whether they are ready to go into Ukrainian airspace and start shooting down Russian Federation planes there. That is why it is very important to discuss this issue also at UN Security Council level, because the Security Council has a mandate to give countries the responsibility to comply with one or the other agreement relating to international peace and security. Indeed, there is the problem that the Russian Federation, which is an aggressor in this conflict and war, is itself a member of the Security Council and is able to veto these decisions. However, the UN Security Council has previously been the place where the respective air zones have been established, for example, in Libya and Iraq. Then countries have also been found willing to provide their aircraft and implement the Security Council's decision in order to comply with this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U99	A procedural question. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize in advance for abusing this opportunity. But maybe you can communicate to the esteemed Foreign Minister that everything he said is right, but isn't relevant right now? Estonia does not have the capacity and NATO does not currently have the capacity to establish this air zone. But the call to impose it we can do, that's the right we have. The Ukrainians constantly stressed that the assistance we provide to Ukraine is very necessary. They're very grateful and so on. But our main force is not sending refugees and, let's say, medical supplies. Our main force is that we are members of the European Union and NATO. Our voice is important. And we ask the Estonian Riigikogu to raise its vote to do so. However, as far as the appeal to the UN Security Council is concerned, the Foreign Minister has every right to apply to the Russian duuma, so that maybe they will establish this zone. Thank you. And I'm sorry again!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U101	Thank you, good Mikhail Lotman! You asked me to convey this idea. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and he himself heard your point. All right, let's move on. Now for an additional question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U102	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, the people of Estonia have been very good and helped Ukraine with donations and everything else and will also help further. That's what you're supposed to do. But the Ukrainians here themselves have pointed out that it is very important to make sure that in military chaos this aid reaches where it has to go. That's where I have a question for you. Can you tell us now what this supervision looks like, that the aid or assistance we collect in Estonia through NGOs and set it on its way, still reaches those in need, rather than get lost? In this sense, this concern is entirely justified, I think, because through the ages we know that war monsters and chaos actually tend to lose quite a lot of help. How is supervision in Estonia structured? How can we make sure that the aid reaches those in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U103	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U104	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! Indeed, this is a very important question at the moment of how the aid reaches exactly the heart of the war. To date, Estonia has provided assistance to Ukraine for 200 million euros, one million of which has been humanitarian aid. The support of the Defence Forces, which is more important, the defence assistance that Estonia has provided, has already left Estonia and has largely reached Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence and its sub-offices shall keep records of this assistance's arrival. With regard to humanitarian aid and the decisions taken this year, Estonia has provided the kind of assistance that the Estonian state has arranged for physical arrival, for example, by decision of 15 February, it was decided to send shelter equipment, tents, heaters, sleeping bags. This decision was made in cooperation with the Rescue Board and these things were handed over to the Ukrainians on 27 February. We have kept track of how we can deliver help. Today, the humanitarian corridors have also operated in such a way that it has been possible to hand over assistance to Ukrainians in Ukraine through Poland or other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U105	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U106	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Anti Poolamets, which is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the duties of Prime Minister and the subject is the financing of national defence. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U107	Thank you, manager. Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. You answered the questions of Priit Sibula's defence in a fairly standard manner that we have 380 million plans to allocate to the country through a budget strategy. Yeah, that's what we've heard. However, it is indeed a standard move, because the warehouses must be full, they cannot be empty, the ammunition warehouses must not be empty, otherwise we will have our armies up here for nothing. However, when we look at the responses of other countries to the current crisis, they are financially dramatic. Germany is making a special fund for the Bundeswehr, which has gigantic dimensions. Poland is raising its wartime defence forces to double their heads. These are movements that show that they are preparing with extreme seriousness. Ants Laaneots, a member of your own party, has always talked about power gaps, huge power gaps. Johannes Kert spoke of power gaps. We're still missing medium-range anti-aircraft, and other power gaps are yawning in the Defence Forces. Does your party have the willingness to come along with the removal of these gaps? What ways do you envisage it, and could it include taking out a national defence loan? I understand that your party has been the last to oppose it in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U108	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U109	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! Raising defence capabilities and ensuring its capability at the maximum level is absolutely the most important priority, as I have repeatedly confirmed here today. We must make use of opportunities to do this from the point of view of increasing our own contribution. This is a decision that you call standard, but it has not been a standard decision, which we did in January, in addition to the already historically highest level of defence spending. Of course, it also means taking advantage of the opportunities of all the allies. We really are in a wide range of negotiations with our allies today to make the maximum and the capacity to grow here. This has already been done to a certain extent, but the negotiations are currently under way, probably at those moments when I answer your questions here. So all options must be used. If we're talking about borrowing, this place would still put things on top of its head. First of all, it must be clear what needs to be obtained and how quickly. Then we need to look at the possibilities for doing this. If an additional loan is needed for this, we will certainly not rule it out. Surely one cannot rule out anything that is wise. In the current situation, nothing must be ruled out, and that is not what we are doing. But there has really been a question of these new capabilities and capacities going through here on several occasions today. Speaking of large sums of money, perhaps it will be somewhat unclear or open, which is what we are doing for this money. I'm just taking this opportunity to recreate the new capabilities that are already in procurement and arriving. These include, for example, marine mines, anti-ship missiles, one-off mid-state anti-tank missiles, new generation anti-tank grenade launchers, R20, or R20 Rahe, as we have used to call it, additional procurement or the last increase in procurement and ammunition stockpiles. Already mentioned the Javelin decision that we made before Putin decided to go to war against Ukraine. And certainly an additional MLRS procurement system in the Baltic States. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are examples of decisions that have already been taken, which are not standardised and which have been taken precisely from the need...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U110	Minister, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U111	...strengthening our security situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U112	Let's keep going. There is now an additional question. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There is nothing new here in the sense that we had a relatively good development plan already in 2009‐2018. Andrus Ansip was the Prime Minister at the time, General Laaneots was the Commander of the Defence Forces. This development plan provided for us to make 42000-man wartime defence forces by 2018, and to do midland anti-aircraft, to do a tank unit and to do a series of other capabilities. But what happened in the meantime? When General Laaneots left, the army created on the basis of this plan was declared a paper army that we cannot do so, it does not need to be done. And now we can see very clearly that this was a good plan and that we should have implemented it. General Laaneots, in his final article, dealt with this matter very thoroughly, and I fully support his views. General Kert can't talk now because he's no longer with us. But in his last pre-death interview, he also listed the same power gaps, what we need to do, that we just need to close the gaps. You have rightly listed what is being done, but it is far from covering the need. When the hit came and the money was taken, they didn't replace it afterwards. Between 2014 and 2015, when the war in Ukraine started, defence costs were not increased decisively either. Now, actually, this is the moment where we should essentially return to the same principles as we were. I don't have a question. If you don't listen to me, just listen to General Laaneots. You have people and competence of your own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U114	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U115	Thank you, good speaker! Good questioner! A decisive and substantial increase in defence capacity, the money that we contribute to protection, as you have also pointed out, is precisely the decision that we have made. When we talk about this year alone, the decision we made before the war started in Putin, there was an increase of 103 million euros compared to last year, and we reached 2.3% of GDP with our defence expenditure. With the additional decisions that have now been taken since you approved the state budget in Parliament last year, we will have almost 2.6% of our defence expenditure by 2024. Here too, the questioner rightly referred to a number of other European and NATO countries, which very quickly raise their percentage of defence spending and are about to reach 2%, but Estonia is about to exceed 2.5%. But these have all been absolutely necessary and sensible decisions. Speaking of anti-aircraft, mid-earth anti-aircraft, here too, we are actually talking, in cooperation with our allies, about already multi-step activities, where we first strengthen our existing systems, that is, with additional radars and communication and management systems. We are creating a prerequisite for the adoption of the Allied mid-earth and, if necessary, long-range anti-aircraft systems in this region and their connection to our own other military systems. These are actions that are already being carried out. And military advice, defence advice is what we base our decisions on in the government. In this, I can only agree with you that it must be based on military and defence advice. The decisions we made in January this year were precisely on that advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U116	And here's a very specific question. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U117	I have a question about your party partner's position. Jürgen Ligi came up with a very convinced view that there is no need for any national defence loan, all hope we have for the allies. At the same time, you here left the ends open in your answer. It's much more positive in my ears than closing Jürgen Ligi's door to a defense loan. Can you explain your party's position and somehow separate it from Jürgen Ligi from the very convinced view that there are no national defence loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U118	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U119	Thank you, good speaker! Good questioner! Jürgen Ligi has not ruled out the need for additional loans. Once again, what is also the position of the government: we do not rule out anything that is wise. This also applies to the use of all possibilities relating to strengthening and maintaining our security. We do this, among other things, very much and strongly with the help of our allies, who have reacted very quickly to the situation, have increased their presence in Estonia and are still growing it. But, of course, we must also make further efforts ourselves. We have already made important decisions in January. But once again, we do not rule out anything that is wise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U121	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, and Tanel Kiik, the Minister of Health and Labour. The subject of the question is scientific proof. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You've been communicating a message to the public that the restrictions will soon disappear, except for masks. In that sense, I would like to know your scientific evidence of this. The point is that already in July last year, the Estonian Environmental Research Centre carried out testing of operational safety parameters for widespread protective masks according to prescribed standards. This led to the following conclusions: Particle separation. The test resulted in three masks measuring extremely high particles [concentration] in cubic centimetres of air. But it is clear that it is not very reasonable to force people to inhale technical dust constantly. Breath resistance was further measured. Respiratory resistance is an important parameter, as it is difficult to work in the lungs when wearing masks are too high. It is also important that the size of the face of masks fixed behind the ear is already rather low. The numbers were also brought out here. On average, it's 55.65 cubic centimetres in the air, although it's 40 for surgical masks. Further, microbiological contamination. The results are pretty amazing. The masks that need to protect people against micro-organisms contain an average of 39.4 bacteria and 12,6 yeast micro-fungals per unit of product, a total of 52 different micro-organisms. And the end result is cardinal. The results show, for a single random batch, that protective masks pushed into normal use by methods and methods of administration are rather a health risk and a means of increasing distress. Question: are you aware of this expert opinion? And if you are not aware of this, are you going to base this on your decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U123	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U124	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Various studies and analyses have been carried out during this COVID crisis more than even you or I can even count. Perhaps it is undoubtedly important what kind of mask people wear. Several countries have, for example, imposed a requirement, FFP2 or FFP3 or a requirement to wear a surgical mask. In Estonia, we have taken a more liberal route in some ways, leaving people freedom of choice, so that they can decide for themselves which mask they wear. But, of course, it is clear that the surgical mask, the corresponding standards that TTJA has assessed, as well as the respirators FFP2 and FFP3 are more effective in preventing the spread of the virus. But we have also left this freedom to wear alternative masks, not scarves or other ways of covering the nose and mouth that do not actually have a special effect. At the moment, we rely primarily on two or three pillars of the government: firstly, the World Health Organisation's assessments, studies and recommendations; secondly, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control's assessments and recommendations; and, thirdly, it is indeed a European one-stop-shop that brings together this expertise and competence, the competence of which has no basis for questioning; and, certainly, the input of the Scientific Advisory Board. In addition, it can be said that [we support] the health sector itself [recommendations]. So I said two or three pillars, but there are, of course, more of these pillars, such as the Health Board, health care institutions and hospitals, who now consider all the masking demands to be reasonable. Certainly in the near future, we will also come to decisions here, which may concern the relaxation of the requirement to wear masks, making them recommended, etc. I'm sure we'll get to those decisions in the spring. I very much hope that this summer will be better for the spread of the virus than the previous one. If you remember last summer, you know that until Midsummer, we were in decline, and then in July the spread of the virus began to rise again as a result of the delta strain. Apparently the delta did not care too much that Estonia had a warm period and we are normally used to the fact that infectious diseases and viruses do not spread so actively. We hope that the omicron wave will do better in this view, that spring and summer will bring down and calmer times, and it will also provide an opportunity to abandon the different rules and restrictions still in force. Certainly, if we are preparing for the autumn wave, for new periods of virus, we will carefully review, for all measures, both the benefits we see inside the country and the assessments and international studies of which measures work, which measures work less, how to increase and increase the coverage of vaccination in particular, because we know that this is the safest way to protect life and health, but also more broadly the steps we take to control the spread of the virus, so that we can keep society even more open than we have been able to keep in the last waves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U125	Thank you. I now ask both the questioner and the answerer to do a little bit more quickly, because then they can ask and they can answer. The question to be specified. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U126	Thank you! Your response is that you do not trust the Estonian experts who have tested all of this in this country. I can tell you that these tests were carried out with the same masks that were distributed in schools. And on the other hand, the results of the test show, for a single random batch, that so-called protective masks, which are forced into normal use by administrable methods and methods, are rather a means of increasing health risks and health problems. There's no point in talking about the utility, based on purely physical parameters, as well as the usage habits. Question: Tanel Kiik, why do you ignore the expert opinion of Estonian scientists on the obligation to wear masks, which says that masking is more damaging than good?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U127	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U128	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! No, we do not ignore Estonian experts. On the contrary, we rely on the recommendations, assessments, analyses, studies of Estonian experts as well as international experts, whether the Health Board, the previous composition of the COVID-19 Scientific Advisory Board or the current composition, hospital managers, are the European level expertise and recommendations that come, as well as the World Health Organisation. Perhaps, in fact, this support and assessment and analysis of the effectiveness of masks have, however, been adopted almost by consensus across Europe in the field of health. Therefore, this masking requirement has been very widespread, at least as a recommendation or mandatory, both indoors and in many places outdoors. I really don't think it makes any sense out there. I think that, in this light, Estonia has also been reasonable here. First, he has not been compulsory outside, and second, he has not been mandatory for young children, and that has actually been reasonable. I think we have acted quite adequately in this crisis, and I believe that we will also act in the next waves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U129	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I thank you for your questions, and good members of the government, I thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U130	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 7th working week session on Wednesday. As always, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U131	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, I will hand over two draft decisions concerning the change in the composition of our international delegations of the Riigikogu. The first concerns the change in the composition of the delegation of the Baltic Assembly, the proposal is made at the initiative of the Economic Commission, the second concerns the amendment of the Estonian delegation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and there is a proposal from the Central Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U132	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity to the Riigikogu on behalf of the Isamaa Group. The aim of the draft is to reduce the excise duty on unleaded petrol to a minimum level in the European Union for one year, i.e. EUR 350 per 1000 litres. Inflation has grown exponentially. Consumer prices in Estonia increased by 12% in February this year compared to February last year. The rise in fuel prices has a strong impact on inflation growth. Russia's war against Ukraine and the accompanying sanctions have further increased fuel prices. By the time the bill was initiated, the price of unleaded petrol at Estonian gas stations has increased by more than 2 euros per litre. The Estonian state can slow down the rise in the price of petrol by lowering the excise duty on unleaded petrol to EUR 350 per 1000 litres, which is a minimum rate for the European Union. We offer this excise duty reduction for one year, from 1 May of this year until 1 May of the following year. In the winter of 2023, the situation can be re-examined and it can be decided whether or not this excise duty reduction needs to be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U134	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Confirmation of the Principles for the Reform of the Electricity Market." Let's go to another test and hope this test succeeds. This is in many respects, firstly, that this decision is supported by the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, and secondly, we hope that it will be dealt with in accordance with our own rules of procedure and the Constitution, and that it will not happen again in the form that the previous attempt weirdly came out. The content of the draft itself is still more or less the same as the previous one. Indeed, we want the government to confirm the timetable for the reform of the electricity market. The essence is that electricity sellers would be obliged, as a new universal service, to offer small customers an off-exchange electricity package whose pricing would be coordinated with the Competition Authority. In the explanatory memorandum, we have written well that this is not a proposal to the Government of the Republic to submit some kind of draft to the Riigikogu, but it is a clear message and an obligation for the government to develop a plan within a month of how it could be implemented, and it will become clear later whether any changes to the law would be necessary to implement the plan or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U136	There are no further requests to speak. I have adopted four drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on the further processing of these drafts on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U137	78 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U138	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 472. There is a third reading, which means that the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there was just a presence check. Do you need a call sign? No, it's not. Then we go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 472. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U139	The draft law is supported by 73 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposers or impartial parties. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U140	Our second item today is the third reading of draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Implementation of the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy. I'm opening negotiations. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U141	Just in case, I'm ordering three minutes in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U142	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, Food security has become more important in recent times than ever. With the Ukrainian war, the agricultural side and the food security side have, like, been pushed into a very big vortex. We know that Ukraine is the world's largest producer of cereals. This means that, in the case of sanctions, the issue of cereals is so delicate that even one part of the great Asian countries does not dare take a position because it is a question of possible hunger. On the other hand, in the case of Estonia, Estonia is a significant importer of feedingstuffs from Ukraine, a significant importer of fertilisers from Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. Maybe the situation is insanely insane. It is clear that all reasonable solutions must be sought here to put together a picture of how food security can be ensured and how agriculture can be sustainable even in difficult times. In this key, we are adopting today the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel and, in this context, we are ending the debate on how agricultural fuel would be available to farmers, quite important. A lot of things are needed right now that are certain things. If one thing is certain about food security, it is agricultural fuel, it is agreed, it is very, very important. Why am I saying this? Fuel policy is the oldest Estonian agricultural policy that has been sustainable. Agricultural fuels started in Estonia already in 1996, 25 years ago. This is the longest agricultural policy that has been used. After all, this is, above all, a policy with the help of national resources. What is extremely important is that we put some things in place, because there has always been such a political wind of how this fuel policy is. Three years ago, too, when the new government came and the EKRE got to Lai Street, it was the winds that completely changed the whole fuel policy. It was then made clear that this was the wrong way. That's right. What else can I say? Of course, at least temporarily, it would also be very necessary to consider the decision to reduce the excise duty on agricultural fuel, which in today's case is EUR 100 per tonne, and to take it to the absolute minimum of the European Union, which I remember is EUR 20 per tonne. Okay, well, we'll be able to talk a lot about these different nuances of food security issues here before spring. Whether or not I was watching school catering now, that in the case of school catering, food prices have gone double in two months, you can say that, and with the sums allocated to local authorities for school food, there is no way to come out. On the other hand, it is clear that the companies that have won these procurements are in a situation where they are unable to provide [this service] to the schools, they are loss-making. It is clear that there is also an issue here called 'Review Public Procurement Law', so that sanctions do not continue for companies that have not been able to provide school food for these reasons, for example. So we certainly have a lot of discussions on food security here in the spring. Today's law is very sensible and must be supported. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U144	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, 495. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U145	With the result of 65 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U146	Our third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a few words, a specific draft, before the final vote at third reading, and mainly the amendments that came in at second reading, would simply be discussed by repeating some nuances. First of all, I think it is a good thing that the process of this draft has also been, as the Commission has seen, one where indeed all the parties who, to a lesser extent, have been involved in this particular draft have also been involved in working meetings, so to speak, elected by Parliament. Really everything, from ERAA, Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association, from the Chamber of Commerce to the Association of Car Companies, plus several and several different organisations. The Fatherland wanted to see some changes in this draft compared to the way it came from the government to Parliament. We are pleased to note that our proposals have been fully or partially taken into account. I'm going through the changes we've seen in the Fatherland. This is precisely what we intended by going to the text of the draft to be more specific, so that the gross mass of the cargo is very clearly indicated in the freight transport. Our vision was very specific so that it would only be expressed as units of gross mass. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We justified this by the fact that, in general, the shipper, not the carrier, should be responsible for the failure to comply with the maximum mass requirements. The consignor knows exactly how much goods he loaded onto the moment the goods were loaded onto a particular car. In this sense, the carrier does not have the possibility to specify later how many goods have been loaded specifically on the car. If you look at the infringements that have been committed in Estonia, we note that the highest number of infringements according to the Traffic Act is mainly related to the fact that the axle load has been exceeded. MKM agreed in principle and made certain changes. He said that the true story, the gross mass, is the most important, but left this possibility in his amendment, saying that if, for some reason, it is not possible to determine the gross mass, this quantity can be determined by some other unit of measurement. But it is also very clear in the draft explanatory memorandum and also in the text of the draft law itself that the gross mass of the cargo is important. The second, as envisaged by the Isamaa Group, which was fully approved by MKM and which was also seen by market participants to be added, is that in electronic transport documents, the person who sits in the car, the identity of the driver, the identification number and other information relating to him, the first and last names of the carriers, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U148	Mr. Sester, I'm sorry for a moment! Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz has gotten awfully big again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U149	I'm trying to speak with a louder voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U150	I understand Mr. Sester has a strong voice and we have a microphone here, but I imagine our guests on the balcony can't hear a thing at all. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I understand that Jürgen can't talk to anyone alone when Mr. Sester talks here, but that's why you have the chance to go out and Sester can keep talking here. Please respect the waitress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U151	Jürgen Ligi did not go out, as I see it, but the more I try to focus on the final part of my speech on the fact that the true story, our vision, was to add the driver's possible data, identification number, first and last name, to the cargo documents, which would give greater transparency. This was not, in fact, included in the draft at the moment it came from the government to Parliament. It must be noted that these changes have now been introduced. On the Fatherland side, I'm sure this bill is much better now than it was when it came from the government. The Fatherland is ready to support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U152	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 490. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U153	With the result of 60 votes in favour, 17 against and 0 abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U154	Let's move on to the fourth item: First reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please report here to Riigikogu member Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U155	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As with Agu Sihvka, I must start from the beginning and recall what this draft decision is about, because this draft decision was submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group to the Riigikogu on 17 January. It concerns everything that has happened to energy prices and is designed to mitigate [price increases] in such a way as to give consumers confidence that sudden price jumps, where we have seen all-time highs, would not take away their ability to cope on a daily basis and would not create the feeling that they are alone in their troubles. Our proposal to the government to develop these measures is based on the notion that the measures should not only be effective, but should also be understandable to the people. If we look at what the government has done so far, as of 22 February, we had eight different measures to mitigate energy price increases that had been regularised, and these eight measures included all very different criteria. Maybe a mess. And most of them apply at different times. Thus, eight different measures, with many different criteria within them, will be treated on an unwarranted basis. In addition, all this is done in different periods. The first of these [measures] became effective in September and is valid until March, the second in force from October to March, the third from December to March, the fourth from January to March and the last from February to March. As all are also different price criteria and different baselines, the confusion is complete. I have a feeling that those people who actually understand what things apply to things and what people have the right to apply for or who have the right to expect the state to compensate for it may not exist in Estonia. This thing is as messed up as it gets. At the moment when we made our proposal, which we ourselves called the North Star, because it is inspired by the Norwegian measure that has repeatedly been raised in Estonian society as a topic in the context of energy price increases, the situation was that the government had put in place a measure called the compensation of electricity, gas and district heating bills for families with an average income level (median income level) of 79.1 million euros. We remember that this applied selectively and assumed that people often had to go on the basis of a lot of paperwork to prove to the local government that they had the right to apply for support to compensate for their energy expenditure. The confusion was very great at the time, the confusion continues, and many people have said that it is humiliating for them, too bureaucratic and they are never going to [to be asked]. Life has shown that this is exactly the way it has happened. While the government initially estimated that nearly 380000 households, or more than 800,000 people, could receive energy support and booked EUR 79 million for it, of which the circa 10% was spent on bureaucracy, as of 1 March the cities and municipalities had made payments to 52000 applicants and a further 21000 applications for compensation had been submitted. In reality, the money had been paid out at EUR 7.6 million, which is less than what the government intended to build up new bureaucracy. This, in turn, shows how ill-considered, ridiculous and alien the government had in fact taken such a form of action. Our proposal says that people should not go to claim, but that at the moment when energy costs make such leaps, people would not be in trouble to pay their electricity, gas and district heating bills, the state would automatically have to pay the unreasonablely high share of these bills. We used the average readings of the same time last year for both electricity and gas prices, which are comparable to each other, so that they are equivalent to each other. A few days later, after we had submitted our draft decision, the government reached its version after heated debates, during which various promises and signals were made and even more confusing in society. They really took one piece of this proposal for a decision, more or less the one relating to the compensation of gas expenditure. In particular, they imposed a price cap on gas bills for household customers of 6,5 cents per kilowatt-hour and compensated for 2,75 megawatt-hours per month until consumption. It's totally helpful to people who heat the gas. However, in addition to those who heat with electricity, who are repeatedly and repeatedly more than gas-fired people, a measure was taken with different criteria, where the price limit starts twice as high as 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, and in the case of consumption only up to 650 kilowatt-hours per month, i.e. four times lower than for gas. If we multiply by two, we get, like, the trouble of people who heat electricity is eight times smaller in the opinion of the state and should spend eight times less resources on them to compensate for their bills or come to their aid. It doesn't make any sense! There has been no adequate justification so far. The state should, however, be able to justify its decisions. I understand that, in some cases, so to speak, there is a positive discrimination or aid to where the need is greatest. But in this context, I have not heard any substantive justification as to why this is being done. In turn, there will be rumors and doubts that will put the country's decision in a very strange light. Our draft decision proposes that people be treated equally, regardless of the energy carrier that helps to heat their room. Thus, our draft decision says that 80% of the price share for both electricity and natural gas, which is more than EUR 0,06 or 6 cents per kilowatt-hour, must be compensated for to all consumers, and up to three megawatts, or 3000 kilowatt-hours per month, without VAT. This order of magnitude is the same as the government has imposed on gas-fired people. I very much hope that you will support this proposal and that we will put an end to this absurd situation. In addition, we will put an end to the situation where all these measures will take place at different times. For example, for those receiving their heat from district heating, in many cases district heating prices have multiplied, especially in those regions where the district heating service provider uses natural gas for heating, this measure started to apply a month later. Looking at the situation we are in Europe with regard to natural gas and various sources of heating, there is no reason to believe that stabilisation would occur during this year and that prices would reach a year ago. Take, for example, the average of March. In March last year, electricity prices were four times lower than the current average in March. Similarly, with gas prices, it is completely unpredictable where today's security situation is taking us. We know that, as a country and as a society, this is, unfortunately, the price we have to pay for this war. But let's do it so that our people don't get into trouble heating their homes, that our people don't have to sit in a cold house because they can't handle their bills personally. We will then go together, as a community, as a society, to help those who are beyond their ability to withstand their high energy prices. That is why I continue to call on you to kindly support the decision of the Riigikogu proposed by the Social Democrats to propose to the Government of the Republic that, for this year, all people who get their room warmed up by electricity, gas or district heating, a support mechanism that can be understood and treats people equally, without giving priority to one energy source to another under incomprehensible circumstances. Let us also think that, if we now call for countries, both at national level and more broadly, that are particularly dependent on Russian gas, that we are seeking alternatives to it as soon as possible, then for some reason our government's proposal and the things that our Riigikogu has knocked off will rather offer relief for precisely this source of heating that we want to get rid of. After all, as a consumer, we all understand that it can delay the problem because it is not so painful. We will then go equally to the aid, whether man has made a choice by the will of fate, based largely on Russian gas, or has made a choice based on electricity purchased from the Nordic electricity market, and whether this gas or electricity runs directly into a person's house or comes to the roomway through the district heating service provider. So I look forward to your support, and I will be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U156	They'll be started by the Rocky Hard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U157	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Indrek! To help coalition ambassadors who are currently sitting in this hall, listening in the office and watching the yard, that oh, the sun is shining and the window is already pretty warm, and maybe they're still browsing their February heating bill or electricity bill, which wasn't that big, and they think that well, why are we doing this now, it's probably gonna be a whole summer to set the heat and see what happens in the autumn when the heating bills come: what would you tell these ambassadors, why should we support this proposal today, and why can't it wait until autumn and wait for a new heating period?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U158	Yeah, when we look at these heating bills, it's very relative, compared to which the February bill wasn't that big. If you compare it with the heating bill for December, if the exchange price for electricity was 24 cents plus VAT for a kilowatt-hour average, then indeed the average of February came down, 12 decimal points for a cent per kilowatt-hour, which is twice as low as it was in December. Yet, it was more than twice as high as it was in February a year ago. So in reality, the heat bills have risen a lot for people, I think, subjectively. The network charges certainly reduced the bill by some percentage points, although these percentages are more within the range of 5 to 7% and, if the electricity bill is double, the aid is minimal for this percentage. But in addition to the fact that December's bills were so large and already twice as small in February and it seemed to be good, although they were still twice as high as they would have thought when making their home budget a year ago, I think that the average temperature in Estonian homes in February this year is my subjective assessment of what I have heard from people and what I have seen was definitely significantly lower than it was a year ago. Yes, as long as it is not about human health, and as long as the children do not have homework or are not doing inadequately, it will, of course, be very good in the global climate context if we review our consumption patterns. But the problem is that if our heating bills multiply and it eats up the family's entire monthly budget, the setbacks are very hard because to pay off our heating bills, you have to save somewhere. This savings come either at the expense of the stomach, of hobbies or of the education of children, because there are also educational costs, in the education of interest and so on, or at the expense of some third-fourth essential thing that we consider to be basic in the 21st century. We shouldn't put people in such a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U159	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U160	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In my opinion, moving towards a goal along a straight path seems more reasonable, faster and understandable to people than making some kind of jacking. Likewise, when we say that education is a priority, but the first thing in the budget is to cut down on recreational education, in the current security situation, where we are talking about the real need to abandon Russian gas [to be used], and also the Western European countries, for whom it is much more difficult to make this decision, do so, we are introducing a support scheme that really eight times more generously compensates gas consumers for higher energy prices. In the current security situation, would it not be necessary to review any compensation schemes and energy efficiency improvements in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U161	Sure. When we finally talk about broad-based defence or the readiness of the population to cope with the crisis, there are very many components. One of these components is definitely military. There has been a rather broad consensus in this regard in society, especially in recent times. But we also need to see this in addition to this, as has the Commander of the Defence Forces, Mr Herem, in my view, repeatedly said, that if there has been a debate on how much more should be added to the cost of defence, then there must always be a question of what other expenses are that are not incurred because of this. If it comes at the expense of education or children or is taken to a position where they are forced to make desperate decisions, then its price for broad-based national defence can be reversed. We need to understand that we must not create further fear in society of how to deal with all this. Until then, if we ourselves call for the whole of the European Union, all our allies to give up Russian gas as soon as possible, it will, unfortunately, mean additional costs, and if the state does not help, some people will be stuck between the gears, so to speak, because they do not have this reserve of strength, they do not have this buffer in the form of incomes and savings, so that they can finally cope during this period. The next question is why we have to pay such a high price. We don't want this situation. It is for this reason that the state and society are to take these corners down together so that we have the maximum common understanding that, in the perspective for us, so that we can do our business here on the territory of Estonia as we want, in the spirit that we have declared in our constitution, we need to stick together and help those who are most difficult at the moment. In this case, very many people who heat their homes with electricity are very, very complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U162	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U163	Good manager! Dear waitress, It's a nice bill for a long time, but I'm afraid it'll land in the trash because of the current rulers. We're in favour of it not going there. But the question is what is said here, without bureaucracy and without humiliation of people. It repeats itself here. Why in this first compensation, in the case of Jaak Aab [variant], was the system so bureaucratic and humiliating? The next wave was much better, not humiliating people. Why was the first one like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U164	Well, I really don't know. After all, we were forced to observe the government's constant public struggles on what they were doing and what they were not doing. A number of promises were made, some of which came true in some form. After all, this draft decision, too, is a proposal for things to be done in a much simpler, fairer way and less damaging to people's dignity. That's the alternative, in fact, to taking people by bureaucracy and spending a very large part of the money that you can actually put in to compensate people for their energy bills. If we come back to what I referred to earlier, this so-called Aab measure had paid out these subsidies for 7.2 million on 1 March, but 7.2 million is less than the total additional cost of implementing this measure for a purely bureaucratic apparatus. This illustrates how ridiculous and bureaucratic it was, in fact, the measure which, in the first instance, was enslaved by the government as a so-called 'Jaak Aab' measure. I would remind you that they claimed that up to 380,000 households would benefit from it. By 1 March, applications had been submitted to 72000, which had been paid to 52000. This shows that those who actually go out to ask for this money or see the point in asking for it at all, or who meet the criteria proposed by the government, are many times less than what was predicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U165	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I see that, as consumers, you are dealing with individuals, people in this bill. That's my question. The high price of energy actually strangles our business sector as well, and this has led to huge inflation, which is getting worse. Why did you get on the sidelines of supporting only people, but not our business and our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U167	Thank you. That's a good question. If you look at this wording, you can see that we are talking about consumers, we are not talking about it as private consumers. Perhaps in fact all these measures also apply to undertakings that consume one or the other network service, electricity or gas, who have a so-called connection point. Of course, we are not talking about energy-intensive production. These volumes, which we are talking about here, up to three megawatt-hours per month, are either for households or for micro-enterprises, for a company whose production does not consume very much energy by itself, it is necessary to heat and illuminate the room, but there is no significant electricity or gas being put into production. He's helping them. The thing that is inside point 1.1 is to exempt all consumers from the renewable energy charge by this year. This is already significantly helping energy-intensive businesses. But yes, energy-intensive companies must inevitably design a tailor-made suit to help them, while not encouraging more and more consumption again, because ultimately energy savings and sustainable solutions are the thing we have to move towards. This alarm bell has been hit especially hard in recent times, so why do we have to do it? In addition, of course, this huge package of confusion that the government has recently introduced, such as the compensation for the second 50% of the electricity grid fee, is specifically intended for commercial consumers. It is not reimbursed to private consumers, it is reimbursed to commercial consumers. These are the benefits. But certainly, we are not suggesting with our draft decision that it must necessarily be implemented by one hundred percent as it was presented on 17 January. Now things are changing very quickly, and every day we get some new knowledge. You could certainly also think about what can still be done for business consumers. But once again, the important thing is that the rules are like this so that they can be understood. As I said, eight measures and practically all of them on the basis of different criteria, some of them still have huge bureaucracy, if you have to prove that you are not a camel, and go, hands on a long, ask for it certainly is not a reasonable way for your citizens, including those who are engaged in business, to go to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U168	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Indeed, we are living at a time when the draft tabled today will become immature tomorrow, in the sense that it often needs to be improved because the world is changing so quickly. My question to you comes from this area that often the answer comes from the coalition for such drafts or decisions, that do not break through the open door, that is all we are planning, that is, we are harmonising, and now this analysis is done and we are moving forward. It's a version. The second version is that it is said to suffer that this is the price of freedom. How do you feel about what this coalition's view could possibly be in the context of this draft decision? Either at the same time or one of these solutions or neither?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U170	Yeah, that question you asked was from an optimistic point of view. Unfortunately, I haven't heard the government have any serious plan to fix this, to say the language of the country. If you pointed out that freedom is an expensive price, then yes, it is. But we could pay that price equally. In this case, the government has decided that those who heat their homes with electricity will somehow have to pay eight times more for this freedom than those who heat their homes with gas. I have so far received no adequate response from the same government that has been cited. I very much expect someone to actually go to the discussion one day and explain not only to me but to the whole society why this distinction has been taken. It is discriminatory, it is unequal treatment, and it creates additional tensions, which, I think, on this day it makes no sense at all to create at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U171	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have another question about this bill after, but I will ask you this way. Yesterday, the Fatherland Party had a very good proposal, but a member of your party, Evgeni, blacked it out completely. The poor person had not realised that pricing was based on the costs of generating electricity and on the return on capital in accordance with the rules and prices established by the Competition Authority. Why didn't the Socats support the reform of the Fatherland electricity market yesterday, but today, a little bit of the same-style bill comes and says it's a very good bill? Do you always have, like, one idea one day and another day? Or, as I have understood in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the last order had been given to the Socialists to oppose everything that others say and to defend only their own drafts. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U173	Yes, dear colleague, you have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U174	Mr. Chef, the story is, no, you can't ask, don't put on your glasses. The question is this, or rather an explanation to you, that, in the case of the OE, as in the case of your draft legislation yesterday, the member of the Riigikogu has one question for the rapporteur. You can ask the Commission's representative for the next question. But Mr. Sester can ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U175	Thank you. I will continue with this previous question. Although Mr Kokk closed the question with a single word, it gave the opportunity to answer it with perhaps three words, but 'whether' was preceded by a longer introduction, and the introduction was linked to your speech yesterday. Hence my question, which is not a question of whether. The question is, do you see that the bill that was on the table yesterday cannot help people to lower the price of electricity? Please answer this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U176	Thank you for your question. I support what Mr Ossinovski said yesterday about this draft. So in that sense, it's very difficult for me to add anything. I think the proposals that say that it is as if we could manage independently in Estonia or establish rules that actually take us out of the single energy market are never feasible. I cannot say in any way that the Social Democrats could go along with such initiatives. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U177	Okay. Now, if this buzz doesn't work out a little bit, Heiki Hepner can ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps, however, you would answer Aivar Koka's question and talk about the specific draft he drew attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U179	Thanks for asking. I think that this discussion in the Chamber of the Riigikogu yesterday was certainly enough to understand what the position of the social democrats is. We have made a draft decision on which I ask for your support, regardless of what we think of the third, fourth or fifth thing in the world. There are things in which the Socialist opposition has similar positions to those of the Isamaa Group, and there are things where these [positions] are opposite and where we will probably never take one step. I wouldn't want to argue with you on this. I accept that you have different visions about things. I don't think it's forbidden to you in any way. The Social Democrats make their choices at their discretion, which are the most logical, clear and effective way for society to help consumers with energy subsidies in the context of very rapid price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U180	No further questions. Thank you! Now is the time for the presentation of the Economic Commission by Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable project transferors! I will try to briefly take stock of what took place in the Commission on 21 February 2022. It was the third bill that dealt with a similar situation. It's called the energy crisis that has happened this winter. The crisis has not, of course, grown so big that something would happen drastically and inevitably, but unfortunately, the prices we saw on our accounts all of us, citizens, private consumers and businesses, were quite high. All parties offered their vision of how to improve the situation. So did the authors of this draft, who presented their vision. This vision was a debate in the Commission, the discussion was quite large and heated. Of course, the draft was introduced on site by [initiators], and the majority of the officials spoke about their vision. As the draft is more relevant to the implementation of social measures, the measures that had been implemented at the time were discussed and the results of the measures that will be implemented in the future. There was talk of draft laws that are going to be adopted and that will make it much more comfortable to deliver on the market. There was talk about the CO2 trading system, an overview of how many subsidies were withdrawn and how many more are planned to be withdrawn. In the end, different information was asked. It was, of course, discussed what the results of these measures are, whether the results of the measures implemented are sufficient or not sufficient and what more needs to be done. Finally, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 9 March and that the final vote on the draft be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U182	You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! If you look at this proposal to the Government of the Republic, you can see here the same mistake that the government has made in one law. There is compensation for the use of a certain amount of electricity, on the one hand, and for the use of a certain amount of gas, on the other hand, but it has not been taken into account that these things can be added together. Some households have very low electricity consumption, but they use gas to heat their homes and also in the kitchen. Nobody else is on pure electricity consumption, no gas at all. Was there such a debate in the Commission that, if such a draft or proposal were to come forward, a person could decide for himself how much he is using one or the other, but, in a complex way, this cost could be summarised, how much he could use? Was there such a debate or was it not noticed, even though we have pointed it out on several occasions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U184	Good questioner, thank you! There was no such debate, although the proposal or idea you are proposing now is, in my opinion, very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U185	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U186	Good manager! Dear waitress, I'll ask the same question as Indrek Island. You, Misha, know better than anyone why Jaak Aab came up with this first, bureaucratic, debilitating scheme at first, with this first distribution. Later, it became more normal. Why did they start out like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U187	I do not know why this scheme was chosen, but I assume that the situation was new and that an urgent response was needed. You know, coalition government is a convention government. It was agreed and discussed. A rapid response was needed in this situation. They must have thought about it a little later, set things up and made them better. They wanted to react better and quickly. But the assessment of whether it was bad or bureaucratic, well, I wouldn't make that assessment. Yes, it was the first proposal, then it was turned into a second proposal. I think things were fixed during the work, and if it really got more comfortable and better, then it's just something you can enjoy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U188	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U189	Thank you. Good waitress! Were you a waitress from these committee discussions, and maybe there were things I couldn't even notice, which was the argument in favour of today's government's solution that people who heat home with electricity and gas are being helped in a completely unequal way, which is eight times the difference between people who heat home with electricity and eight times the amount of help? What is the main argument why this is being done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U190	I do not recall that, in the Commission's discussions, such a problem or a question has been specifically raised. It certainly wasn't in that exact form. But obviously my assumption is that since things were done differently, in different ways, things were done in parallel, they were not treated as a single set and were not viewed from the angle of whether it could really be compensation linked to electricity and gas together, but things were looked at separately, then the final decision became that. I think there is no particular reason beyond the fact that things were dealt with separately and at different times these decisions were taken or it was agreed what the compensation mechanism is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U191	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U192	Thank you. Good waitress! This compensation and equal treatment of energy carriers is such an interesting construction. I will continue with the question of whether this has been touched in any way in the Commission or what this concept is. For example, we have specially labelled motor fuel, we have a diesel excise rate, we have a petrol excise rate. As a separate subject, were all these types of energy carriers on the table, if we compensate or level out something in the difficult situation we are in, perhaps in an ever-increasing energy crisis? Was it on the table in any way, or was this subject dealt with in the Commission in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U193	Yes, a good questioner, I think, I do not think, but I will say once again that there was no such debate in the Commission. The debate in the Commission was still a long time ago, and by then the government had already taken certain decisions. But I think the main reason why there has not been such a debate is that we received different messages and price increases also took place at different times. Perhaps information came at different times, needed different responses at different times, and these compensatory amounts and the lack of a common understanding of compensation, all due to the fact that the signals and decisions came at different times. Of course, the time has passed. Today the picture is much clearer. Today, things can probably be better arranged and done. Of course, this discussion is very important in order to figure out what lies ahead for us. It is clear that already warm weather is coming, prices are definitely going down, probably wind generators and wind producers will be able to produce more electricity even during the summer, when prices are going down even more. But what the next winter will be like is to talk about today. What measures will be taken if there is one or the other or a third scenario, it needs to be thought through today so that we do not get back to the same situation as we are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U194	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U195	Thank you. Good waitress! Did you in the Commission come to the conclusion in your debate on this draft that this so-called 'green turn' also has a role to play in price growth? In this respect, the compensation for renewable energy prices is intended to compensate producers or, rather, Elering, but it would also be reasonable to opt out or compensate for the CO2 price, rather than to collect the money from the residents. Was there any mention of the allowance being reimbursed? Looking at today's state of affairs, once the security situation has changed, taking it is completely insane. Do you agree with me? Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U196	Thank you for your question. I would say that you asked two questions: was there a debate and do I agree with your point? I'll answer the first one first. The first answer is that there was no debate. Specific things were discussed, so if money was collected, how could it be compensated? I mean, CO2 compensation. A specific proposal was discussed, what had been done and what had to be done was discussed, but rather discussed on a case-by-case basis. There was no such global and big debate, which obviously was not the purpose of this debate. As far as the CO2 system is concerned, I do not agree with your proposal. I'll explain why. In fact, the CO2 system was designed to reduce CO2 emissions into the air. I think that if we create a system where we collect this money on the one hand and then compensate for it, it's like scratching the left ear with the right hand, it's awkward and it's awkward at all. If you are talking about this system being wrong, I may agree with this to some extent. This system is not working because there is quite a lot of speculation in the system. This natural price is not foreseen, this price increase is not meant to be the way it was meant to be. There is a clear error in the system and the system needs to be corrected. But how do you fix it? Do you want to stop applying the price of CO2? This must be the subject of a larger and broader discussion and this is not the discussion of our hall. It is either a discussion of the Commission or of the House of the European Parliament, where we need to discuss how to proceed with this system. Perhaps indeed this carbon quota system should be regulated, the price should be more regulated. It is expected that if CO2 goes up more, the price will increase and these productions will become more ineffective. In theory, when CO2 emissions into air are higher and the price has increased, emissions have to decrease and CO2 prices have to decrease. But in fact, it is different, today the prices of energy resources are increasing, the price of CO2 is increasing, and ultimately the consumer will pay for this growth. After all, the consumer who is in this situation or in this circle will pay for all of this. In addition, we will build a system where we will collect a huge price of CO2 and begin to give it back to people. What happened in the winter was completely irrational or illogical. That's what shouldn't have happened. But it happened. In Brussels, I hope, or I am sure, be very wise politicians who look at this thing and think that wait-wait-wait, something is wrong. This problem is not just Estonia's problem; it is a problem in France, Germany, not to mention all other countries. I hope there's some kind of mental sign coming from there, and then they say maybe we're still doing something wrong and we're gonna have to arrange the system differently. Time will tell. Let's just hope everything works out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U197	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups and the committees can speak in the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U198	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa Party has always taken the view that the drafts intended to support Estonian people and entrepreneurs should be supported if they are reasonable and understandable. Not like a social party. We heard yesterday, and we also hear today that he's talking about our bill, which he hasn't read by himself. Yesterday we heard how the obligation to produce minus electricity is imposed, although the draft states very clearly that Nord Pool's electricity market for the Estonian energy market is the sole electricity supplier of Eesti Energia, which is a state-owned company, has the obligation to sell directly, without a stock exchange, the electricity needed to meet the new universal service obligation. And now what is important is: "Assessment is based on the cost of generating electricity and on the return on capital according to the rules laid down by the Competition Authority and prices are coordinated with the Competition Authority. " Perhaps today we should not discuss anything if we had agreed. According to the managers of Eesti Energia, the cost of electricity is less than 30 euros per megawatt-hour. We will put all the profits and taxes [to] the CO2 [to] price and it will be less than EUR 50. We should not discuss how people are compensated for anything, people can handle themselves and should not go shopping at the municipal door or anywhere else to cope with today's energy prices. In my opinion, the question here is that we do not want to understand what our real aim is. We don't want to go dealing. Such a social benefit measure was introduced so that 10% of the people who would be entitled to it actually go to the municipality [after this]. The Estonian is proud enough not to be humiliated. The final money has been taken from the sukasääre for pensioners and young families to pay the December, January and February bills. These bills will not decrease in March, nor will they fall in April. When the weather gets very warm, it's easier in April. Yesterday's gas price had risen 20 times since a year ago, not in percentage terms, but 20 times. If we go to the gas station tonight, we'll see that the price of gas is two euros, a cent here and there. Today we have urgent decisions to make, it will be no use if we make these decisions on Midsummer Day. People have been put in a difficult situation, and we know that the war in Ukraine will not lighten energy prices from anywhere else, will in no way reduce them. I very much hope that the government will discuss this very clearly today. I heard on the radio yesterday or this morning how the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications was asked what would happen to excise duties on fuel, which excise duty would be reduced. On this point, the Minister replied that we do not know anything now, we are discussing, the government has not taken up this issue. But the press release was a long time ago in the Central Party that, although VAT is 9%, excise duties have been reduced. There's nothing really going on. Doesn't 20 times the price of gas make any people think? It is not the case that gas consumption is very low in Estonia. 200000 domestic customers use gas. 200000 domestic customers. Is there some kind of compensation made up and suggested how to switch to alternative heating? It's the same with electric heating. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U199	More?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U200	Come on, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U201	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U202	Thank you. We could still be very clear that all decisions must come from this hall. There is no need to discuss whether this is an opposition or a coalition. We agree and agree on how we can support our Estonian people and entrepreneurs so that they can survive the next few months, manage themselves so that they do not have to go bankrupt and should not lose their home. Most young families have bought a home with a loan. They have to support it somehow. If four times the energy costs of the home have increased, then it is a crisis and this crisis can only be resolved here today by these 101 politicians. There is no need to discuss whether this is a proposal by the Socialists, the Fatherland, the EKRE, the Reform Party or the Centre Party. These could be our joint proposals to resolve these concerns. That should be our goal: to forget about the opposition and coalition for a while and to try to help our own people and our businesses together. Regardless of the fact that yesterday Evgeni had not read the draft and the rapporteur today had not read our draft, and they made criticism and incomprehensible criticism, the Pro Patria Party supports the proposal of the Social Democrats. We do not do politics to tell voters anything on the one hand or on the other, we want to do this policy for our people in Estonia. This is a common goal for all members of our Riigikogu, and there can be no other purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U203	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The commission has proposed a final vote. Since we do not have any amendments, we can also prepare the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group 515. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U204	The proposal is supported by 37, against 27 [Members of the Riigikogu]. Since this decision requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, the decision was not adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U205	So, our fifth item on the agenda is a presentation on the implementation of the 'Acceptance of Fundamentals of Legislative Policy for 2030' in 2021. Before the Minister of Justice presents this point, I would like to draw your attention to how we deal with it. First, the Minister of Justice Maris Lauri's presentation, up to 30 minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask the rapporteur one oral question and the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak in the negotiations. The Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of this debate. Please, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U206	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Crisis situations make it particularly clear how important it is to be guided by the principles underlying the rule of law. Good law-making principles also play an important role in ensuring these principles. Good lawmaking refers to the legislative process, which is inclusive, predictable and evidence-based. Good regulation is a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the economy and for the well-being and security of people. In November 2020, the Riigikogu adopted a decision approving "The Fundamentals of Legislative Policy until 2030." This document has agreed on the long-term vision of Estonian legislative policy and the principles of good lawmaking, which form the basis for dealing with draft laws, developing the legal language and organising cooperation and development. The basics of legislative policy up to 2030, or the LLPA, are a follow-up to the Riigikogu decision of 2011 entitled "The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018." No significant change of direction is planned with the LLPA. It continues to be important that legal intervention is a last resort, before considering other options. The laws created must be clearly understood and respected and burden people, businesses and stakeholders as little as possible. As an update, the LLPA provides for an obligation that an expert opinion be added to the report on the execution of the Riigikogu. For 2021, an expert opinion was drawn up by the Estonian Academy of Sciences' Foundation for the Law of the State. The LLPA also contributes to the goal of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, according to which state government is innovative, reliable and human-centred. The rule of law and the fundamental rights and freedoms of people shall be exercised in an honest and transparent manner. In today's presentation, I will give an overview of 2021, i.e. the first year of the new fundamentals of legislative policy. There are also brief references to the two previous years for which no report has been made. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The last few years have highlighted the need for legislation to be flexible and forward-looking. Never before has Estonia regained its independence as a country faced a crisis that is developing as rapidly and long-lasting as the two-year viral crisis. We will add here the rapidly rising energy prices in the second half of last year and the war launched by Putin in Europe. Let us not forget, too, the hero, which requires significant changes in a wide range of areas, including people's behaviour. All this has an impact on legislation. Legislation must be flexible enough to enable the country to respond effectively to changes in society or the external environment. At the same time, it must be sufficiently predictable and stable to maintain and increase people's confidence in the state's activities. To balance these two conflicting principles, there must be wisdom, consistency, and sometimes a tantrum. The corona crisis that started in 2020 proved that Estonia's legislative process is flexible enough and allows for a rapid response. The cooperation between the authorities was based on co-operation, but as a matter of necessity, it also meant more limited and shorter discussions and engagements. However, legislation prepared in haste and the low level of stakeholder involvement must not become part of the usual legislative practice. Legal solutions must be thought out, address real-life problems and be developed in an open and transparent manner. The Ministry of Justice has the role of legislative coordinator and controls the quality of all draft laws initiated by the government. On the basis of the draft sample, the expert opinion on the implementation of the LLPA shows that the technical and legal quality of the legislation is inadequate. The 109 drafts sent to the Ministry of Justice for coordination last year show that their technical quality is predominantly good, but 11% of the drafts have extensive technical shortcomings. Thus, from these data it can be concluded that the problem with the technical correctness of the norm is largely not present, but 11% is also too high, and that a reduction in this proportion certainly needs to be addressed. The draft laws mostly correspond to the written language norm, as has been stated in the expert opinion. It is important that the final version of the draft and explanatory memorandum should also have been delivered before being submitted to the Riigikogu. Not all agencies and ministries have a language editor in office, and this is also known from time to time in the drafts coming to the Ministry of Justice. One of the challenges is that we see the objective of more and more systematic analysis of the constitutionality of the draft in the explanatory notes. This has also been pointed out in the expert opinion, which states that the explanatory notes to the drafts selected in the sample have largely not done so. The analysis of constitutionality, however, is an important source of information for those implementing the law. The rapid development of technology, but also crises, increasingly require respect for and consideration of constitutionality. In order to clarify the legislator's will, it is often first that the explanatory memorandum is addressed. Most of the bill changes during the procedure of the Riigikogu, which is why the original text of the explanatory memorandum no longer complies with the law. A separate explanatory memorandum is drawn up on the changes made in the procedure of the Riigikogu, but what is relevant in the original text of the explanatory memorandum and what is not necessary must be identified by each reader himself. The time spent by those implementing the law would be significantly saved, but also the understanding [to be improved] if there were a single explanatory memorandum which, as a whole, corresponds to the text of the law adopted. Perhaps it is worth looking for a way to achieve such a situation. Before preparing a draft law, the draft legislation is prepared. Its wider value is that it makes legislation predictable and more transparent, allows for early public consultation and involvement of stakeholders. The obligation to draw up the ITCs has been in force for ten years. It is often argued that the drafting of the ITC is excessive bureaucracy, it is formal and unnecessarily delays the legislative process. But nobody forbids to make a VTK practically and in a way that really benefits it. When public discussions on the necessity, justification and content of a draft start early, it is possible to shorten the process of drafting, including coordination and adoption, as fundamental disputes have been held early and the parties concerned have already been involved at the outset. The Ministry of Justice is looking for solutions for more and more meaningful compliance with the obligation to prepare the ITC. Since last year, the government will also submit the VTC to the Riigikogu for information. So far, this has been done in about half the cases. Obviously, the new arrangement is still getting used to. The Riigikogu committees have generally taken note of the VTK and have not expressed an opinion on them. Now from the impact assessments of the drafts. This [the situation] has improved due to the system implemented in 2012. In international comparison, the Estonian impact assessment system has been assessed as very good. According to a study carried out by the OECD in 2021 concerning legislative policy, the system for assessing the impact of Estonian draft laws in terms of quality is the fourth highest among 37 countries. This high score for the aggregate indicator was due to the transparency of the impact assessment and the systemic application of the requirements. While the quality of impact assessments has improved and the impact assessment system has been internationally recognised, expectations for the quality of impact assessments have also increased. It is therefore important to ensure that impact assessments are more supported with data, that stakeholders are involved in the compilation, that the administrative burden is further assessed, and that ex-post evaluations are planned for changes with significant impacts. The effectiveness of any regulation can best be assessed ex post. Ex-post evaluations are still not planned in practice. Last year, the government launched three such drafts in the Riigikogu, where an ex-post evaluation obligation was also envisaged. In addition, there were two drafts where an obligation was envisaged in the explanatory memorandum. According to the LLPA, the target is to increase the proportion of ex-post evaluation. However, ex-post evaluation is not necessary for each draft and, in fact, does not make sense given the cost of resources. One of the new requirements laid down by the LLPA is the obligation to design an ex-post evaluation in cases where the draft law has not been drafted due to urgency. The ex-post assessment obligation is imposed by law, the corresponding rule is proposed in the implementing provisions of the Act. The Ministry of Justice will assess more systematically what changes should be planned, propose and monitor the implementation of the commitment and the ex-post evaluation report. The Riigikogu plays an important role in increasing the proportion of ex-post evaluation as a so-called demand designer. The more ex-post evaluation reports are asked, the more it directs the government to plan them. In order to ensure the quality and transparency of legislation, the country's co-creational environment will be developed. It is an IT solution created in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the State Chancellery and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which brings together all information relating to the legislative process, from the drafting of the draft to the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. The co-creation environment consists of, on the one hand, a closed working environment in which legislative initiatives can be prepared with common templates and tools, such as development plans or draft laws, and, on the other hand, a public view that gives the public a clear picture of the progress of the drafting process and of the prepared materials. It also provides a better opportunity to participate in the legislative process. 20[2] In 1st year, developments reached the stage of drafting the first VTC and draft law. The basic principle of "Estonia 2035" is that the legal environment and governance of Estonia favour the cohesion of society, the introduction of new solutions, innovation and flexible government administration. One of the activities of the Strategy Paper is to develop and implement a policy based on co-creation, including the development and implementation of a toolbox for lawmaking and inclusion. The development of a country's co-creation environment contributes to achieving these objectives. While the national co-creation environment creates technical possibilities for ensuring the quality of legislation, the quality of legislation remains primarily dependent on legislative lawyers. Last year, the discussion on the quality of legal education was intensified, and this also concerns the law enforcement authorities. Law-making lawyers have the specific skills required and a legislative academy has been set up to raise their level of professional competence, which provides training on the subject of professional competence and competence for work. The Legal Language Day of the Legislator Conference is organised specifically for law-making lawyers. The prerequisite for achieving the objectives set out in the LLPA is that the profession of legislative attorney is so attractive that competitions for new officials should not be declared unsuccessful. This needs to be given a special focus in order to ensure growth. To sum it up. Ensuring the quality of legislation is a complex task. The success of this task requires that issues relating to quality are dealt with in a systematic and continuous manner. This is a joint task for all actors in the legislative process, and the end result depends on how much each of us follows the principles of good lawmaking in an agreed manner. No more or less will depend on it than the strength of the rule of law. Thank you. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U207	Good Minister of Justice, there are questions for you. Peter Ernits is starting, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U208	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. 23 pages are quite embarrassing to read, especially when I have here the materials of earlier years, where there are specific... One question is very difficult [to say this], but I will focus on the legal language. For example, in 2019 it was said that there are language editors in seven of the 11 ministries. But I don't know what it's like right now. 2019, when this whole thing was prepared, it was said that an appropriate training programme should be drawn up. I will read in your presentation that as a way forward, this should be done. It is now 2022. What's the status now? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Law is quite awful at times. Are there currently language editors in all ministries? Why is this thing just starting to develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U209	Thank you. For example, at the end of last year, there was a legal language day where there were participants from all the institutions that come into contact with legislation, including the Riigikogu and ministries, from different institutions at all. In my understanding, it was discussed how this process and the legislative language could be improved. There were different seminars. On the basis of the feedback that came to me, they were very happy with it. Certainly the corona situation also had an impact over the last two years, perhaps it was somewhat more difficult to organise such seminars. Let's say, in a teleworking form, maybe not all things are as effective as when people are physically together. As far as the language editors are concerned, as of today, I do not dare to say this with 100% [confidence], but at the end of last year there were probably two ministries that did not have a language editor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U210	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U211	Thank you. Minister, I thank you for this report. But I would like to ask how this issue has been resolved: under temporary protection, Ukrainians who have the same rights as our citizens will come here, but if free legal aid, the volume of state legal aid is so small, lawyers' fees are so low, how can people who come from another legal system defend their rights here. I'm sure a lot of people need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U212	Thank you. At the moment, it is not known how much help they need. We are very early in the process. But I had a meeting with the barrister's office yesterday. For example, they said that they had mapped out those people who are also willing to give pro bono legal advice. We will certainly see to it that the legal advice that refugees need is certainly sent. If necessary, it shall also be considered financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U213	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U214	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you for your report. Very interesting reading is also the expert opinion attached to your presentation. I actually have a number of questions. One is that, according to the conclusions of the expert report or the replies they have given, are changes to the constitutional analysis for each draft or changes to the procedures for drawing up the ITCs planned? Are there any changes planned? On the other hand, a lot of drafts are going to be processed without the VTK. For years, there has been a problem that VTCs are not dealt with in a meaningful and systematic way. But are there positive examples? Yes, life is so complicated that it is difficult to find the right legal solution in your stomach. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The CPC will help to achieve a good result in terms of both the substantive and the legislative solution. Are there any positive examples when the VTC has actually helped us to achieve a better solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U215	Thank you. First of all, these proposals, which are four, concern the analysis of constitutionality. We have already observed at the end of the year that disputes at different levels need to be monitored more closely so that all aspects are taken into account. Let's just say that since all the government's drafts have to go through the Ministry of Justice, I'm sure we'll be following this very closely. I have to admit, we'll argue about it. Indeed, there have been more of these disputes in recent months and more clarification as a result. Certainly, as far as the plans for development are concerned, here too, we have asked for a more detailed explanation as to why, in one case or another, they have not been made. I sent a letter to the Ministry of Education relatively recently and said that this bill is no longer urgent, please do the VTK and resolve this problem, because even according to the explanatory memorandum, a lot of questions remained. Let's just say that if there really is an urgent matter, sometimes it is very urgent, then the issues that should actually be solved in the VTK need to be explained in the explanatory memorandum. As a result, the explanatory statement must be more extensive and comprehensive. So this is also a place of choice in a certain sense. We'll see about that. I can assure you that, in very many cases, the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice to drafts have, for example, been to carry out one or another analysis more thoroughly. Not even at the VTK level, but precisely because there is something missing in the explanatory memorandum, this side of the reasoning, the analysis is not well established. As far as the issue of regulation and legal quality is concerned, this is certainly one thing that is constantly being dealt with, which requires specific preparation. The fact is that it is difficult for ministries to find specialists because, on the one hand, of their own specifics, but also because a legislative lawyer's position requires certain skills, which everyone does not have immediately, it needs to be prepared. Perhaps for many, it does not seem attractive at first speed either, because the demands are quite high for this profession. So we know these weaknesses. These weaknesses that were presented here, we have known that they could be in these places.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U216	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The general principle of legislation is that the text of the law should be clear, understandable and unambiguous, or unambiguous, but, unfortunately, more closely than we would like, the judges must deal with the need to consider and think about how any provision of the law should be interpreted and how it applies. It's gonna take a lot of time. I have a question as to whether this problem has also been addressed in the process, whether, for example, any analyses or assessments have been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U218	Thank you. I guess that feedback from practitioners comes from one place or another. Let's just say there's two solutions, two ways. One thing is that if there are still a lot of questions and complaints about a draft, or they are of a significant, serious nature, then the amendments to the draft must be prepared relatively quickly and are done. Some things are a little bit smaller, or let's say maybe at first glance it doesn't seem so acute. Sometimes they look forward to this moment when, for example, the draft will be amended for some other reason so that there is no situation where, figuratively speaking, we will change one sentence of the draft in January and the second sentence in March, but keep this process together. How do these things come about? It has, on the one hand, been a so-called historical result. After all, we have a lot of drafts now that amend existing laws, and sometimes it probably doesn't go down the road or everything doesn't go the way it's meant to be. I'm sure there's one thing about rushing around here. This is what I pointed out at the beginning of my speech that there really are situations where rapid changes are needed, but then we must hurry slowly. I mean that, in the case of such drafts, we should still look at the different parties, because there are still several eyes in the eyes and then there is hope for more rapid detection of inconsistencies. Having now been in office for somewhat more than a year as a member of the government, I would like to assure you that if there is an immediate [inclusion] of the various positions of the various authorities, if there is a need to amend the draft or to lay down something, if there is immediate involvement of the various parties, then the probability that something will remain more rogue will be less than if someone does and says that it is all. Everyone will have to work for that in the future. There may still be a second layer, the Riigikogu, to review these matters once more. The process is of logical length in the Riigikogu, which may even make it possible to deepen and consider things that are sometimes very quickly proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U219	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One word stands out to me in the report on the fulfilment of the fundamentals of justice policy last year. It's an ex-post evaluation. As we know, if the laws are confirmed in this Riigikogu, they will be adopted, they will live their lives. But these fundamentals require an ex post review of whether all these choices and decisions in creating regulations were effective, whether they would improve society's life and so on. How do you understand this need for ex-post evaluation? Is that supposed to be more? In this report it is said that this is being done as little as possible. Or how could this future be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U221	Thank you. The ex-post evaluation is actually a reflection of the fact that if we do anything as a human being, there will be consequences and we can assess the consequences of whether they are what we expected them to be. The same can happen in lawmaking. We can expect, for example, in the creation of some laws that people or companies will act in one way, but it turns out that when they implement the law, they did not act in another way or not in quite that way, or there are some side effects that may not have been anticipated at first. These situations typically arise when the preparation process of the draft has been short, the intention to develop has not been taken into account, i.e. the phase in which the different parties concerned could have considered this solution. In this sense, I fully agree that in all situations where no plan for development was made, but this is an important change, an ex-post evaluation should be carried out. Yes, the question is what is an important change. It's kind of a subjective place. But there is an example of fundamental circumstances, which was perhaps one of the most important changes. This concerned the dismantling of the pension system, i.e. the voluntaryisation of the second pillar, which should actually have required a development plan. There must be an ex-post evaluation now, even if we can already perceive that there have been processes which may not have been accurately measured or evaluated during the preparation and debate of the draft. But the other way around is that if this impact analysis, which is in the explanatory memorandum, and the ex-post evaluation give the same result, then we know that this is exactly what happened. That knowledge too is always useful. I think that an ex-post evaluation is essential for major changes. The question is, does it always have to be written in the law? I admit that I would like us to be so smart as people that we would do this thing as if we thought logically and logically. But I've realized that some things are always better written into the law to be done. So, indeed, if there are any linguistic corrections and such mistakes that have occasionally been incorporated into legislation, there is no need to carry out any ex-post evaluation. However, when fundamental or extensive changes are made, an assessment should be made. It must also be understood that, of course, the greater the change, the more thorough the ex-post evaluation. At times, a relatively moderate analysis of whether a moderate change is also subject to a moderate ex post evaluation is also very useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U222	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. First, Marek Jürgenson gets the floor on behalf of the central fraction. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would like to thank the Minister for this review. Legislation may seem at first glance to all of us to be a complex and relatively distant issue, but it directly or indirectly affects the lives of many of our people. The objectives of the fundamentals of legislative policy can only be accepted. At this point, we want the laws to be understandable, reasonable and non-burdensome and to avoid overregulation. We would like every initiative to be preceded by a multi-faceted and in-depth analysis and all stakeholders involved in drafting laws. At this point, I would like to draw attention to two aspects of the expert opinion of the Advisory Board of the Foundation of National Law of the Estonian Academy of Sciences commissioned by the Ministry of Justice: the analysis of the constitutionality of the draft and the intention to develop the draft prior to the drafting. Among other things, experts were asked to assess the fulfilment of the fundamentals of legislative policy by analysing the constitutionality of the draft bill, which was initiated by the freely elected ten governments of the Republic and adopted by the Riigikogu, and the intention to develop the ten freely selected draft laws. The expert opinion states that one of the fundamentals of legislative policy is to ensure the constitutionality of the laws adopted by the Riigikogu, so it is very important to analyse the constitutionality of the new regulation proposed by any draft and to reflect it in the draft explanatory memorandum. The issues of proportionality of fundamental rights and restrictions on freedoms provide the basis for parliamentary debate, provide greater clarity and certainty for the recipients of the rule. It is also necessary in the context of possible subsequent litigation, including constitutional review, in the context of judicial proceedings. According to the expert opinion, nine out of ten cases lacked an analysis of the constitutionality of the proposed regulation in the explanatory memorandums of draft laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, which were selected in the draft opinion. The analysis of the constitutionality of the regulation being created is an important part of legislation and I hope that [part] of the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic will soon be in place in all the explanatory notes that have been thoroughly worked out. In this way, we can improve the quality of legislation by reducing legal disputes and thereby also increasing legal certainty in society. The second aspect I would like to mention is the analysis of the draft legislation's intentions. The fundamentals of the legislative policy provide that the Government of the Republic is to draw up and justify the intention to draft a draft law to be initiated. The fundamentals of the legislative policy list the cases where the intention to develop may not be drawn up, but its substantive aim is a public consultation that allows mapping of possible solutions to the problem and its effects. The design plan should bring together the expertise and experience of stakeholders, experts, academia, which are of the utmost importance. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U224	Please! Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U225	The expert opinion states that, by looking at the plans to develop the drafts listed, it is quite exceptional in practice to present the draft intention. As a rule, it doesn't work out. In the case of the ten draft laws which were the subject of the opinion, the drafting of the draft legislation was preceded by the drafting of the intention to draft it only in three cases. I believe that the completion of the preparatory phase of the draft of the planned development will provide an opportunity to better assess and understand the real impact of the proposed regulation. In fact, the failure to draw up an intention to develop leads legislation away from the fundamentals of this policy. The possibility of social debate will also be reduced and the range of possible solutions will be narrowed. We therefore expect plans to be drawn up in the drafts developed by the Government of the Republic and do not consider it appropriate to abandon this legislative phase. Of course, yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we discussed this with the Minister, I asked it personally, and the Minister confirmed that it would not make sense to abolish the VTCs. So thank you so much for your strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U226	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Anti Half Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U227	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U228	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U229	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like a farmer, describing the harvest of 2021 in legislation. The year 2021 was the year of the scrawl in legislation. It's been a year of constitutional study. Unfortunately, it has to be said as a baker that it has been a year of legislative cluster hacks. It's hard to call it anything else. This has been caused not only by haste in times of crisis, but by a conscious desire to do things with a longer view in the shadow of the crisis, which might otherwise be difficult to carry out, for example by pushing the urge to restrict the freedom of expression of political competitors through a discourse [in the draft]. Priit Pikamäe also stated very harshly in his expert opinion on compliance with the fundamentals of legal policy that the explanatory notes to the drafts included in the selection did not analyse the compatibility of the regulation with the constitutional requirements. As a rule, there is no analysis of constitutionality in the explanatory memorandum to the drafts initiated by the Government of the Republic and adopted by the Riigikogu. Sadly, our courts and the Chancellor of Justice have failed this time too, because let us not forget that these constitutional restrictions have been the toughest in our recent history. The toughest. It is therefore difficult to exaggerate with this criticism. You can pick on the legal language, but if the content is rotten, a representative package won't help. These are not individual shortcomings that exist yet. The Minister said that about a dozen of the 109 drafts had been in trouble. Yeah, there were probably technical problems. He congratulated us for being the fourth most important OECD country in the impact assessment system. Yeah, but it's just the coloring of the save when the foundation is fractured. Unfortunately, there are even certain Red China methods that can be observed in relation to the suppression of freedom of expression and the extraction of hate speech. We had one scourge during the year, it was an unjustified extension of the powers of the police through the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. Under opposition pressure, a number of exaggerations were not introduced. So far, we've heard of a change of eyes, that there is no forced vaccination, that policemen and militia fired some kind of government with an unknown force. This is particularly painful in the context of the current security crisis. The long-term colonel and many other skilled Defence Forces were kicked out of work to force them to inject vaccines with unfinished safety studies. The soldier is intended for the front, if necessary, not for laboratory testing. Let us not forget that the Constitution says that no one should be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her will. The legislation on COVID control has been flawed from all sides, unfortunately both illegal and unscientific. Why else would we have to cancel the answers to the questions on Monday? Because three times vaccinated ministers were sick and at home. Under these circumstances, can we fire people, ruin their careers? The answer is clear: you must not. The Hostile Speech Act, the Act on the Instigator Reporter, or the Penalty Act. My colleague Jaak White has explained that the concept of incitement to hatred comes from the Soviet Union. The Soviet State has already tried to introduce this concept into the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in order to nullify the principle of freedom of expression. During Stalin's time, this failed, but during Brezhnev's time, this Marxist substance was squeezed into some international legislation. I don't see any reason why we have to go along with this. The idea was not to free minorities, but to curb the democrats. The law of appeal, said with a more beautiful name, the draft law on the protection of the infringer is an example in which the saying that an Estonian official always adds half to the Euro Directives is absolutely true. The bill that was imposed on us under the directive was offered in a nice sauce, talked about exposing money laundering. It turned out that they wanted to impose a comprehensive system of complaint against the euro-Stasi, which they could boldly develop for this purpose, the preconditions were created. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not liberalism, this is Marxism. Don't do it! Don't be fooled by Comrade Brezhnev! European Union legislation. ELAK, where I am a member, recalls the second Chamber of Parliament. Indeed, one of the worlds that seems to be larger than the earth on this top floor, because this pile of legislation that is being pushed to us every Monday would require a few dozen people, helpers to synthesize, analyze, investigate, and search for mines. But we have to do it on top of everything else. And we cannot guarantee quality. In any case, I also found one meth in a tar barrel and I can't help but mention it. In fact, it is a process of co-creation initiated with the State Chancellery and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, where information on drafts has been gathered in one place. Let's hope it helps keep procedures in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U230	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! I do not have such lush shapes as my predecessor, but I am still starting a presentation on behalf of the Socialists. I quote the introduction to the overview of the implementation of the "Principles of legislative policy until 2030" in 2021: "In November 2020, the Riigikogu adopted a decision approving the "Principles of legislative policy until 2030." This was agreed on the long-term vision of Estonian legislative policy and principles of good lawmaking. "As an important principle, the LLPA contributes to the goal of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, according to which state power is exercised honestly and transparently, respecting the rule of law and ensuring fundamental rights and freedoms of people. Although today's presentation and review focused mainly on 2021, the first year of the validity of the new fundamentals of legislative policy, it is important to address 2020 as well. After all, we all know that the last few years have suffered several crises in Estonia, since the viral crisis, which has been accompanied by the energy crisis, the security crisis and so on. Unfortunately, legislation must also respond quickly to these crises and challenges, while, as I pointed out earlier, respecting the rule of law and guaranteeing people's fundamental rights and freedoms. In March 2020, a special situation was established and several cluster laws were submitted to the Riigikogu in the spring of the same year. It is understandable that the emergency situation and the viral crisis also required urgent action in the adoption of the laws, but unfortunately the submission of a package of these large cluster laws to the Riigikogu became an inevitable and quick take-or-leave procedure. The principles of parliamentarianism were ignored, and the members of the Riigikogu were forced into a coercion. It is important to point out that this situation did not benefit in any way from the quality of legislation and the reputation of the Riigikogu. The cluster laws themselves already point to significant shortcomings in our legislative process, for example, that several things have not been done in time and then the drafts, without discussion and coordination with interest groups, will be drafted and submitted to the Riigikogu as a compulsory choice. It is important to point out that, whether there is an emergency situation, an emergency situation or a martial law situation, none of these situations should be dealt with in such a way. For all these situations, the state must be prepared with its own laws, regulations and codes of conduct. It is clear that crises do not go away, they must be learned and legislation must also be better prepared for them. In an emergency and in a viral crisis, a number of fundamental rights, such as the right to free self-realization, the right to family and privacy, the right to entrepreneurship, the right to free use and dispose of property, the right to move and reside freely in Estonia, the right to education, the right to peaceful assembly and meetings and many others were restricted to a greater or lesser extent. However, in the exercise of these constitutional rights and freedoms, there is a so-called "law reservation," which allows these rights and freedoms to be restricted by law, which means that the rule of law must provide for a clear legal basis for any constitutional offense. In our parliamentary state, the law is passed by the Riigikogu, and in crisis situations in particular, decision-making must be broad-based, ensuring greater legitimacy and acceptance of decisions by the people. The fundamental decisions that concern the country as a whole must be taken by Parliament, not by the executive, i.e. by the Government of the Republic on the basis of its own regulations and regulations. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U232	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U233	Parliament, the Chancellor of Justice and the Court must also have the power to supervise these restrictive measures, not the Government. As has already been said here several times, as a rule, there is no analysis of the constitutionality of the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic and adopted by the Riigikogu in the explanatory memorandum. Although the explanatory memorandum to the draft legislative act explicitly provides for an obligation to analyse the conformity of the draft with European Union law, there is no requirement for the draft explanatory memorandum to include an analysis of the constitutionality of the draft text in addition to other subdivisions. Good fellows! In addition to high-quality legislation, our country faces a serious challenge in organising state legal aid. According to Jaanus Tehver, Chairman of the Estonian Bar Association, the state's legal aid system is underfunding and fair justice is at risk. The Chairman of the Estonian Bar Association warns that if the system's resources are not added, the moment will come when the lawyers will no longer be willing to continue working under the conditions specified by the state. However, if a number of people in need remain unable to obtain the protection of a lawyer, there will be no fair justice in Estonia. Public legal assistance customers are already the most vulnerable party in the justice system and the state must do everything to ensure that they have access to justice. If you look at how much we have the right to legal aid, you can see that it is clearly not enough for those who have the right to receive it. I checked how much it was. The legal aid service can generally be used with system 2 + 3, where the first two hours are free of charge and then the next three hours at an hourly fee of EUR 45. When we look at crime, we see that crime has taken new forms. People are unsuspectingly engulfed by criminals, even without their own knowledge of the bad situation. We'll take cyber fraud, identity theft. All that we have today is not enough, we need sensible solutions. Firstly, more and more legal assistance is needed for people; secondly, money is also needed for the Bar Association to give it to a good level. If you go any further from here, you need to find a complex solution, not that the administration, that is, in the case of a collection company, for example, identity theft, will start charging the victim for the money and tell him that then you'll go to court and you'll ask the perpetrator for the money back. In fact, there should be a link here, either a local government constable, or social workers. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Of course, the big issue is Ukrainians who arrive and may need legal aid in their own language...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U234	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U235	Also, the money that should be given to lawyers should not be expected to work on a voluntary basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U236	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U237	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U238	Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U239	Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, You know, things are kind of different around the subject. We all have ideas around Ukraine. However, by concentrating on a serious issue such as national legislative policy, I would like to use this chair to give sincere recognition to the Minister of Justice. It was a professional, intelligent and comprehensive approach. My sincere recognition. I do not think that during this parliamentary term I have given the strongest credit to any member of the government here, and it really comes from the heart. Now specific problems. If we disregard the questions and solutions expressed in this report, I think that we have had an external approach and a problem with this paradigm of legislative policy. This has to do with the fact that, in the major decisions, we have started to have real power over the last year or two, slipping away from the legislator, that is the power of the legislator, which is slipping away from the legislator. Let me give you some very serious, concrete examples. First of all, the same NETS issue that has been heard here and on which the Supreme Court has repeatedly and in a very dramatic tone said in its assessments that, if, in the first phase of the crisis, the legislative authority was indeed given a legal mandate, so to speak, a general authority to impose implementing acts on executive power, it is not constitutional in a situation where the first, the acute phase of the crisis has passed, according to the rule of law, which also results in the exercise of executive power under law, especially in a situation where fundamental rights are restricted, by its very nature. That's definitely the first problem. The second problem: the whole situation that took place in compensating for the rise in the price of energy carriers. Amazing, I'm sorry! In a situation where our constitution says what? The legislator adopts a state budget which provides for state revenue and state expenditure. Secondly, the Constitution says that the law must provide for the types of aid and the procedures for payment to people in the event of a shortage. A clear section of the Constitution in the catalogue of fundamental rights. Now there was a situation where hundreds of millions of euros of compensation were paid to people on the basis of government implementing legislation and the allocation of funds, the legal basis for the allocation of this huge amount of money [was] the law on atmospheric air protection on the basis of which the government acted. There is no such basis for tens of millions of euros and tens of millions of euros from the Air Protection Act! Clearly, this was contrary to the current constitutional rule, both in terms of expenditure and in terms of the arrangements for which groups of persons, and according to which rules these allowances were paid and still paid. Do not misunderstand me, I am not condemning support for people, but the legal platform under which it is done is not in accordance with the current constitution. The third example concerns our defence issues in the same way. Once the government has taken a decision and started to implement this decision on the need to allocate additional military resources in the context of the security crisis, I welcome it on two sides, it makes every sense. However, in such a situation, these decisions are again being made out of line. We have a state budget law. The logic of the State Budget Act is that the state, as the Constitution says, revenue and expenditure are all set out in the budget for a particular current year. And then, at the same time, the decision seems to be made to allocate EUR 380 million to national defence, but if we get involved in military defence, how much it really is, as information was given, directly to military defence, EUR 2.4 million will be transferred from the government reserve. EUR 2.4 million! Obviously, on this issue too, it is important to us that the legislator must act constitutionally in this situation and take a decision, as required by the budgetary rules resulting from the Constitution, when a large amount of additional money over the years is allocated to national defence. The next question concerns the analysis of impacts. Here I don't know whether to cry or laugh. One eye cries, the other eye laughs. This relates to the "Fit for 55" initiative. There is no other proposal for both a grandiose [proposal] and a European Union climate package and its socio-economic implications during this parliamentary term. It was given a parliamentary mandate by the majority, but in reality there was no substantive impact analysis. The impact analysis carried out by the European Commission itself was based on a completely incorrect financial calculation of the price units of the CO2 quota, which was not the case when it was transferred last autumn. We asked ministers why there is no impact analysis of what it really means to our society. One minister said: no, no impact analysis, if you have, let me know. That's what a member of the government said. Another member of the government, he had another vision, said: but how can an impact analysis be carried out at all, unless we know before what rules have been adopted to adopt the rules in Europe, we will also appreciate how much it will cost. The country cannot be run in front of its back, it is neither responsible nor prudent in organising its own country. This was also the reason why a number of interest groups expressed their protest against the government's positions against the "Fit for 55." That was also the reason why we in Parliament had to set up an appropriate national interest support group and submit an alternative draft to Parliament's proceedings. So let's get this straight. The current fundamentals of legislation and procedural logic are probably as the Minister pointed out in a fair assessment. However, we have developed not a sneaky, but a noisy trend as to the fact that there has been a change in legislative work to turn Parliament back on track. In exceptional circumstances, it is probably, I say, the universal instinct of executive power to try to reverse this discussion. In previous years, this instinct has been expressed by attempts to quickly push things through Parliament. But now, as I said, we're seeing a completely different phenomenon. It is a very ominous phenomenon that Parliament is being replaced by artificial, extra-constitutional structures. Government regulations are taken, individual government acts are created to spend tens of millions of euros, and then what kind of construction is redesigned? As I referred to when talking about the payment of subsidies for the price of electricity: under the law on atmospheric air protection, we manage the country, we manage the state budget. And then it seems like Parliament has become the one on the back. It is time for Parliament to assume its responsibility! Let this call be for this call, this zero point. It is in critical times that we need a clear targeting device for Parliament in a parliamentary country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U240	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U241	All right. After Urmas, it's always good to come to the chair. With such a master class of populist demagoguery, it's always good to have a little debate. Urmas, yes. [[Urmas Reinsalu comments on the floor.]] Yeah. Do you want to come back to the remote, or can I talk to you? How do you feel? By discussing the foundations of legislative policy today, I dare to state with all my heart that Estonia has moved towards a more consistent and lasting rule of law and that Estonia is the rule of law. Urmas Reinsalu pointed out references to violations of the Constitution or to the miscarriage of the Constitution on various points. Well, according to the opposition politicians, it is of course possible to do so, but it is worth recalling that there are mechanisms in the rule of law to check whether legislation is constitutional or not, pending the review of the Chancellor of Justice and the Court. The references made by Urmas have not been confirmed in any way during the constitutional review. For this reason, I think that the most important argument for legislation is constitutionality. As long as the quality of legislation can be maintained, that legislation is constitutional and there is no major dispute over the quality of legislation, we can quite certainly say that the foundations of the Estonian rule of law remain. This includes the legal language as part of the quality of legislation. The legal language has certainly been in quite good natural development in Estonia and is generally in good condition. For me, it has always been extremely important for legislative developments and legislative developments that we do not deal with empty legislation, so that we do not deal with empty legislation. Perhaps the principle of 'as little as possible' must apply deeply and basically in the legislative process. That as much as necessary is only secondary. If there is a legal instrument that can be implemented to solve the problem, this problem must be resolved within the framework of the existing legislation. If it's even the law on atmospheric air protection, but it carries a purpose and is constitutional, then for God's sake, we also use the law on atmospheric air protection, no matter what the problem is. One more time: legislation is not something like this, or it is a matter of itself, that it is absolutely necessary to adopt a new legislation if someone has an idea, but rather to see whether the existing legal space will enable the problem to be resolved without adopting the new legislation. Urmas said something I would like to respond to. It has been a permanent talk over 30 years that Parliament has no role in legislation. Come on! A movie classic and a literary classic have said: "Who did this? He did it himself. " We are making legislation in this Chamber. So who's it gonna be? We do. If we want to set speed, we can set speed. We've been fast. I bring the Ukrainian statement, which was adopted very quickly, at an additional sitting, for example, we have shown that we are capable of doing so. During the previous government too, Parliament has shown that if laws need to be adopted quickly in the corona crisis, they were adopted within two months. It took less than two months from the thought of the third reading to the hammer strike. We can if we want to. There are also other examples where speed has become slow and very slow. There is a reference to § 151 of the Penal Code in this hall, entitled "Instigation of Enemy." In my opinion, this is a poor wording, and there should be a change in the legal language, also in the text itself, in the norm itself, because when we talk about this content, the very content of § 151 is about hatred. When we talk about § 151 in conjunction with the Constitution, in particular § 12 of the Constitution, I dare say that § 151 of our Penal Code requires inevitable repair in order to bring it into line with § 12 of the Constitution. I recall what § 12 of the Constitution says: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. "The second paragraph... There are no paragraphs in the Constitution, but then let us say that the second paragraph of the same paragraph says: "Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between strata of society." If you look at § 151 of the KarS in force, we can see that it introduces the term "danger." The Constitution doesn't say there has to be a definition of danger. I am therefore deeply convinced that this Parliament will not get away with this, particularly in today's situation, where we are talking about the threat of war, or not the threat of war, but the real war is going on in Ukraine, so that, if the war is being urged, this incitement to war must also be clearly covered by a penalty. I am deeply convinced that this parliamentary assembly cannot escape the revision of § 151 in the Penal Code and bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and also with what is happening around it. So we can be fast if we need to. Unfortunately, we've been slow in history. I recall that § 151 of the Penal Code has been on the table for more than ten years. More than ten years! This has not been resolved. But I dare say that in the current war situation in Ukraine, Estonia's legal space needs a clear response here. Other activities that come from war lessons that are specifically related to war, be they symbols or something else, certainly need to be regulated. So Parliament must really be ready to respond to the conditions that are currently in Europe. But overall and summarily, as I said, from the perspective of legislation, the direction of the quality of Estonian legislation has been, in my opinion, in a constant upward trend. We can guarantee constitutionality. We have a pretty good legal language. But on these acute issues, which we have in itself, I agree with Mr Reinsalu in that sense, yes, Parliament must keep control of itself. I believe it will come back to the table in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U242	Thank you. Reply. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U243	Thanks to Hanno for the good word. I would like to say this and warn you that, in a war situation too, we certainly need to draw conclusions quickly, be it in the legislation on security, whether it is in some punitive matters concerning the exclusion of enemies or their agents. But I would certainly call for us to refrain from making war on the pretext of certain things that have been in the air in a so-called peaceful situation and which are very clearly ideologically controversial topics, to try to increase the tension in society by using war and to build further social confrontations in its cover. I think that would be the wrong direction. Secondly, an example of what Hanno referred to. Indeed, I did not mean this perpetuation of mobile talk, so that Parliament could have more competence, but I pointed out specific problems, not in recent legislation, but in the activities of the government that is rejecting Parliament. It was not a question of Parliament's level of legislator. It is undoubtedly the responsibility of the coalition, which has accepted this, and doing nothing is giving this power to the government. Let me give you an example. Hanno's point was that they could act quickly. In the first phase of the corona crisis, we were able to put together, essentially in a few weeks, an additional budget of several hundred million... Let's say it's a very large volume. Now four months were twisted, but the compensation mechanisms for electricity could not come up with the correct additional budget, with clearly laid down regulations, as is constitutional. Off-constitutional activities cannot be tolerated in this Chamber, was my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U244	Thank you. No more calls. It is possible for the Minister to make a final statement. There's no such wish. In that case, I will conclude the negotiations. At the end of this item, we will not take any decision. This item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U245	We can move on to the next item on the agenda, this is No 6: Second reading of draft law 512 amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U246	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. It is a pleasure to continue where the previous item reached. On Urmas' concern, which was that the government may have the will to sow further tensions where no agreement could be reached during the peacetime, and to escalate these tensions in difficult times, I am pleased to say that, when introducing this bill, common sense has reached home on some issues and the issue of equalising registered partnerships with marriage has been removed from this bill. To this end, the Estonian Conservative People's Party also made efforts, whose representatives made a number of proposals to thwart the filth that was written in here. As we know, it was not intended to go directly to the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act, but to do so by means of various drafts. One of the things that was being commented on here was how they wanted to make a quiet, sneaking transition. The Commission discussed this draft. As I said, there were a number of proposals from the representatives of the EKRE Group and from the Isamaa Group. Then the coalition also reached proposals that were formalised in the form of a proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs. For the first time, we met to discuss the preparation of the second reading on Friday, 18 February, when the chairman of the committee proposed, broadly for discussion, essentially that marriage be excluded from the draft registered partnership. The representative of the Social Democratic Party said that this proposal was not suitable for them, they felt that it was unreasonable to remain under the avalanche of opposition amendments and to recognise them and that this issue should, in substance, be taken forward. The Social Democrats also expressed their dissent and frustration at the government departments that they did not really like it. The same proposal or position was held by the representative of the Social Democratic Group on Monday, 21 February, when we began to discuss these amendments in substance. He asked for it to be noted that the Social Democrats are in essence in agreement with the other proposals on which the Ministry of Social Affairs came up, too, with many technical proposals, but they would not agree with this substantive change. These proposals, which were of a technical nature, were related to the mother's parental benefit. The aim is to pay the mother's parental benefit also to those legally staying and working in Estonia who work or stay in Estonia for a short period. The same right applies to these persons under the current Health Insurance Act. At present, these persons receive maternity leave and maternity benefit, which will be replaced in the future by the mother's parental benefit. So here, basically, there's a terminological change again, so "parental benefit" is in the current version. It is also one of the technical proposals that concerns us in our law to be in one term all the time in different laws. As we go from "pregnancy and maternity leave" to "mother and father parental benefit," these other terms, I hope, we will be able to get out of [the law] after these changes. The second amendment is that "registered partner" is excluded from the whole. Then it is a technical amendment to § 49 of the Family Benefits Act. These are technical changes to the standard. Then there is the amendment granting an exception to the parental benefit of the adopter. In practice, there may be cases where one child is either repeatedly adopted by different adopters or has been in one care family first and then adopted by another family. If the above situation occurs, the adopter or the parent of the care family shall be entitled to parental benefit for the adopter within 70 calendar days, even if the parent of the child's previous adopter or care family has received parental benefit for the adopter. The aim of the amendment is to give the adopter, the parent and child of the care family time to adapt to the new situation and the new way of life. It is not only people who receive compensation but, above all, the interests of the child, who, unfortunately, have been so-called cranked in different families in the present case, would like to hope that he is not cranked into it, but that he has arrived there, so that this family can really find time and a close relationship with that child. The issue then was that regulation should be laid down in case the person was entitled to parental benefit for one child and, at the same time, was entitled to parental benefit for the next child. Perhaps the situation states that a person still receives only one benefit at a time. Whether the parental benefit related to the birth of the previous child is terminated and a new one begins, or the benefit of the previous child is paid to the end and then a new one is registered, but there is no situation in which it is as if it is possible to receive the benefit for two children at a time. The conditions are also specified if the child is born earlier than the expected date of birth prescribed by the doctor and the mother has not yet begun to exercise her right to parental benefit for the mother. The following change concerns the parental benefit of the father. The amendment waives the restriction that does not allow the parental benefit of the adopter to be paid if the adopter is not on leave at the same time. This is really important, as I said before, so that we can essentially have a relationship. It is not about paying compensation, it is about being with a child in practice. The next amendment deletes the regulation of the [situation] of people who have developed in the European Union, because the regulation exists in the European Union regulation and therefore no longer needs to be regulated at national level. Then there is an amendment to the Pensions Act, which is technical. Then the Social Tax Act will be amended, the principles set out in the Finance Minister's regulation will be transferred to the level of the Act. Then there is the amendment which amends the Employment Contracts Act, which combines the amendment to the Family Benefits Act with regard to the premature birth of the child and with the mother still working on the day the child is born. There was a little legal vacuum. If the child is born on the day when the parental leave has not yet been taken, there should not be a legal non-sense in order to be able to receive this benefit immediately. It was what turned into one of the amendments of the Committee on Social Affairs, and there was also a small debate in the committee. I myself wondered if it was possible for a father to have children in different families at the same time, scattered around the city, and then he decided that he would collect everything and receive compensation for the different children. But just like we said before, there's only one child to be reimbursed at a time. Probably the situation that I was theoretically trying to describe, fortunately, is not described in the law. As I said, the Socialist representative, Helmen Kütt, said that it is not appropriate for social democrats to exclude this wholeheartedly from the subject of registered partnerships. Then there was the question of Mom and Dad's compensation. That's what I said, that's basically so that we can achieve the same legal terminology throughout the law. It was discussed that since this agreement came with the first amendment, it became clear that representatives of the Conservative People's Party would withdraw their amendments in so far as there was no longer a need for them and that the amendments of the Fatherland could be partly grouped. These agreements were made and the amendments were discussed. The Commission supported the amendments. For the last time, we discussed this draft technically again on Monday, and now it is here in this House to discuss it for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U247	Thank you very much. Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U248	Good manager! Dear waitress, You remember when the law of cohabitation was passed, our door was wrapped in flowers. I ask you why, like a thief, it was now necessary to put these laws of association into the right bill in itself, which was finally grazed out. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U249	Thank you. Good questioner, I'm unfortunately wrong. The Minister for Social Protection, who brought this draft before us in this form, would probably have been able to give a more precise answer to this question. But as I said, I think what you did and your groupmates did, and the agreement found in the coalition that it would not be reasonable to legitimise the implementing acts of the cohabitation law now through the back door and create absurd and pointless tensions in society, was equally clear to everyone. I say that, as a result of your joint effort and our joint effort, I think, fortunately, they are not in here today and we can proceed peacefully with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U250	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U251	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When this bill was introduced, I had a hard ear because a great deal of emphasis had been placed here on declaring bankruptcy. The maintenance assistance during the bankruptcy procedure seemed incomprehensible, knowing that the people of Estonia are too legitimate or that they are taking their own company, undertaking, as if a personal child, all their spare time and health will be buried there in order not to go bankrupt. I don't see how many there are. Yes, we can say that the war in Ukraine is affecting the whole of Europe, and maybe we will have much more of these bankruptcies. However, when preparing this draft in the Commission, when it was a good time, was it already a major problem that it was necessary to provide maintenance support during bankruptcy proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U252	Thank you, good questioner! In such matters, it is never a question of how many people are affected. [If there is any] child who is in poverty because of the hole in the law, it should not be on deaf ears in this house. I think it is very reasonable that if there are holes left in the law, so if some older individuals are declared bankrupt and have no resources and opportunities to provide their child temporarily, hopefully, so that the rest of society will help here. Since we have this system for other cases, it was also reasonable to extend it to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U253	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U254	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I understand you're very proud to talk about how all the families of the same sex were grazed out of here. If you win a lot of work, you'll report it to us here. But have you discussed in the Commission what will happen to families of the same sex? What about their parental benefits, parental leave, benefits when a child is still born, maintenance assistance? All these adoption topics, care families, etc. What will happen to these parents, these families and their children, if now all those things that you guys grazed out of here with a big hurrah, they're not going to get any more? What is your solution for families that are registered partners under Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U255	Thank you. Well, this problem and the subject you touched on are, of course, ideological. This debate, as far as I described it, was in the Commission, and there was no more. But with great honor and pride? I think that is the ideological difference that I have and you probably have. But now, if we go from big words to content, what concerns the relationship between parent and child, this right will not change in any way from now on. It was simply the omission of what I was referring to: a registered life partner is not equated with a spouse. But what concerns the relationship between parent and child, which is legally regulated, is maintained in this form. Plus, as the Commission official said, we know that the Court is also shaping its right, so to speak, in its own right. What is not done here in any form by law is shaped by the courts of the Republic of Estonia in our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U256	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U257	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm curious what happened behind the doors of the Social Affairs Committee. Right now, this legal partner's exorcism could take place there, but you have a lot of drafts in your drawers and not in your drawers. Is there anything else like that hiding, or is there plans to hide them? Or do you think this was the last attempt?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U258	Thank you. In my opinion, thinking of those parties who supported taking it out of here, it seems to me that, at the moment, the notion is rather overwhelming that there is no need to deal with these issues too vigorously at the moment. I think that the elections in a year will give a partial answer to this. It will then be possible for political parties to shape their positions, who stands up for which family and how the right to proceed. As far as I know, no party has asked for too strong a mandate to do so. As I said, as far as this particular draft is concerned, that amendments were made at all to take out this equality between the partner and the husband, I cannot tell you what the coalition is up to, but I rather feel that no one wants to deal with this issue any more. As the Ministers said in Question Time today, there are more topical issues. I hope they stick to their words.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U259	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U260	Thank you. I come back to the subject from which I started: the rights of families of the same sex and the rights of their children to receive the benefits prescribed by the state. The Social Democrats continue to oppose this [out]. As you yourself have repeatedly pointed out, the Social Democrats were the only ones who opposed it. But I realized from your previous answer that there was still some discussion about the subject, because it was about court and so on. Does it not seem to you that, as our legislator, we should still be dealing with these matters at the level of the law, rather than waiting for the court to do so for us? We know that these court decisions have so far been all in the opposite direction, they have moved in the direction that married people and people living together are equal partners and are subject to all laws. Why do we act like we're waiting for the court to tell us what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U261	Thank you. I really hope we don't expect that. We have a very serious disagreement here, don't we? Indeed, if it were up to me, I would certainly support the repeal of the current law on partnership. But that's not possible. I hope that it will be possible for the various political parties to ask for a mandate on the way to next year's elections, but we did not have these discussions within the framework of this draft. Or just as much as I told you, right? I myself pointed out that our group's amendments are reflected in the view that the draft is intended to equalise family benefits and parental benefits with the spouse's registered partner. I have noted that the group does not wish to change the existing law or the rights that the partners already have, but rather that it wants the situation to be maintained until the moment the Ministry came up with the draft. I was told that since our proposal was to withdraw it, the current law will therefore not be directly amended. At the same time, the application of the law must be based on the judgement of the courts and the practice of the Supreme Court. That's the answer I was given.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U262	I don't see any more questions. Then we can move on to the negotiations. Eduard Odines, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U263	Ladies and gentlemen, The ongoing security crisis, as is really all other crises, shows very well how important it is for every person how important it is for every person to have an attitude towards his or her own country, how important it is for a country to have an attitude towards every one of its people. It is important for a person to feel that the state cares about him, that no one is overlooked, that everyone's lives and everyone's concerns are important to the country. It is important for the state to feel that the person cares about the country, that the country's concerns are not overlooked. So remembering, caring, taking into account, empathy is extremely important in times of crisis, as in fact in all other times. Today we are discussing a draft amendment to the Family Benefits Act and, in this connection, a draft amendment to other laws. In fact, a good and necessary law, a law promoting caring and remembering, which solves the concerns of many Estonian people, shows the empathy of executive power and legislator. The Social Democrats support the draft, because it really cares about the Estonian people, but unfortunately not all of them. By submitting to the blackmail and extortion of the EKRE and the Fatherland undermining democracy, the Centre Party and the Reform Party have removed from the draft everything concerning partners registered under the Cohabitation Act, their opportunities and rights, their lives and concerns. Just out of the bill, and that's it: done, eliminated, deleted both registered partners and their children. The reason for the deletion of some Estonian people is the need to "avoid the disguised enforcement of the Cohabitation Act by amending other laws and to value the traditional registered marriage between a man and a woman." (End of quote.) However, I will continue to quote: "[... ] taking into account the security situation and the impact of equal treatment between partners and spouses." (End of quote.) Ladies and gentlemen, Given the security situation and the impact of the law, we must seriously consider whether some of the laws of the Estonian people will help us cope with security and other crises. Does this behaviour by the government and parliament show the Estonian society a sense of mind, care, consideration and empathy, or does it really have the opposite effect? Have you thought, ladies and gentlemen, about how many Estonian families, how many mothers or fathers have such deletions in their heads, the idea: do I have to care about the Estonian state, do I have to, if the Estonian state does not care about me? Even raising such questions is extremely dangerous, especially in times of crisis. Of course, the good question is who is next. Whom will we next remove from our laws, whom we forget, who we fear, mock? Each of us, ladies and gentlemen, may be the next deleted. The Coalition Agreement between the Reform Party and the Centre Party states: "We guarantee equal treatment and protection of discrimination across sectors. " What has become of this point, good colleagues in the government coalition? Where has Riisalo, the Reform Party Minister responsible for ensuring equal rights, gone? Why doesn't he slam the doors? Why doesn't he require the bill to be tied to the government's mistrust? Why is the Reform Party flirting with the LGBT community in the run-up to the elections, but following the elections, is subject to the dictatorship of the right-wing, human erasers? Riisalo has the courage only to say, in answer to my question in this Chamber, in Question Time the day before the war: "The topic of the registered partner is and will remain a complex and sensitive issue, which we must decide jointly here in the Riigikogu, but also in the government, in the next discussions." (End of quote.) That's too bad! It is a pity, Minister Riisalo, that you are not capable of more. But it's a trend, ladies and gentlemen. This is a trend for which the Fatherland ambassadors have publicly thanked the Prime Minister and the government, and to which the Prime Minister has publicly responded: 'This undermining of democracy does not really benefit our internal security, which in this case is very important in the whole large security context'. (End of quote.) Security is not good, but nothing will be moved to change the situation, Prime Minister. This trend is a trade in values. These examples, when the Reform Party in particular trades its declared values in this Parliament, are already numerous. Even when the Media Services Act is amended, the compliance with the blackmail of the EKRE and, as a result, the incitement of hatred, hatred and discrimination, their permission in the Estonian media area. Our Parliament, which should stand up for every person, is moving and moving away from this principle. The Estonian legislator cares about the people of Estonia selectively, with the silent consent of the voters. So far, the Social Democrats have been the only ones who have opposed all these non-care initiatives and have voted against these amendments. Social Democrats don't trade values. Every person in Estonia is important to us, regardless of what sex he is and what sex he is a partner of. I call on honourable colleagues not to support the amendments tabled by the Fatherland and not to delete part of Estonian families from Estonian legislation. If you do this, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the strength to be President of all the people of Estonia will be enough for President Karise, as was repeatedly the case with President Kaljulaid. Happy and safe for all Estonian families! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U264	Priit Onion, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U265	Yeah, on the spot. Thank you. That's what happens when you shoot the word across the hall: everyone who was in the hall was hit. You should be more careful. Just remembering what I said about introducing the bill and what I said about performing. The purpose of the Fatherland has not been to erase anyone, no human was erased from anywhere. It seems completely absurd to call this so-called eraser. The words of a good colleague began by saying that this is a blackmail. Eight amendments were tabled by the Fatherland on this draft. I don't know exactly what the blackmail is. In my opinion, this is the most common parliamentary opportunity, the group is able to table amendments, and so did the eight amendments of the Fatherland. I ask for all these amendments to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U266	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U267	Good manager! Honourable homosexuals and nonhomosexuals! I can acknowledge on behalf of the EKRE that I fully agree with the Social Democrats: we will not change our principles. That's where we're the same. But speaking of the bill, the bill is excellent. The law of 40 children whose parents are bankrupt. Are there 40 of them? As I read here, 2017 had 18 such children or there were 17, then there were 21 and 2019 was 30. Well, the prognosis is 40. So there aren't many. But then again, every child is important, and the law of 40 children is also important. Another [theme], solving the problems of stillborn children and their parents. So finally a nice law. So far, so good. But then suddenly, the government tried to hide in it the application of the Cohabitation Act [acts]: that the husband is a registered partner, that there is [equality] a sign between them. Now, if you look at it with that look, you could say it's the Piller Bill of the Family. You know who the Pillers are: they make beautiful bouquets of flowers, and so on, and they've acquired a few children. You could say now that when the Pillers go bankrupt, it's about them and their children. But I think it's unlikely. More importantly, there is a certain number of homosexuals in every population, including Estonia. The number of these children is very, very low. So when we talk about the laws of 40 or 30 children, the probability that this problem will occur is quite low. I would like to compare this bill with what we, remember, were dealing with here in the meantime: the draft Dutch sailor of Piirissaare. One directive was, extremely theoretical, that maybe a Dutch sailor would get to Piirissaare and want to sail on the Piirissaare shipping line. Yes, theoretical, but probably non-realizing or extremely rare [option]. I think that hiding this so-called cohabitation act here is actually about the same thing. The fact that he's now taken out of here is, I think, the right thing. I hope at least that's the way it's going to be, these §s 2, 5, 14 and what was all here. Yes, to sum up, we have come back to another such rather theoretical law, particularly concerning the concealment of the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act. If we now come back to the fact that we only had a respected Minister of Justice here who gave his excellent speech here, we could quote these conclusions from here, which is not the Minister of Justice, but Priit Pikamäe in his opinion, that as a rule, there is no constitutional analysis of the draft law in the I quote this text, which has been stated in the legislative analysis of the Minister for Justice: "The loss of abstraction and the regulation of all possible individual cases at the level of the law will inevitably result in pressure to initiate new legislative changes, as excessive detail-focusing is only a case-by-case approach. "So once again, it is perfectly suited to illustrate the general situation of legislation. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U268	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At first, I did not intend to come here and give a speech because of this bill, but the passionate speech of a good colleague, Eduard, forced me to come before you. Unfortunately, I really have to say that it is not the Fatherland that wants to erase someone, but it seems to me that the Socats are those who want to erase a part of [the society]. The Fatherland has always stood for a win-win solution, so that we don't run over anyone and the development is so that those who are stuck in the traditional family model will have the chance. I would like to remind you, however, how this debate has been in this Chamber from time to time in the light of the law on cohabitation. It is precisely the Socats that have been among those who have wanted us to push it under the other side of the table, it is not important that we talk only about this, let us say this, about a modern family relationship, not about a traditional family relationship. I think it's extremely bad that we feel that way. We should make sure we all fit in and there's no such thing that we just erase somebody. Fatherland never wanted to erase anyone. I'm sure that's a groundless accusation. I am pleased that in today's very difficult security situation, when we have had a health crisis and there has been an energy crisis, we do not bring here points that divide society. We have a reason to stick together. Indeed, there is a reason to stick together, for there is no concern. I don't understand why people try to blow up a gap like this again and why they feel offended and say that the Fatherland is trying to cancel someone. On the contrary. Good Social Democrats! The current speech was clearly unjust. You should look in the mirror. Who wants to cancel who? That is, in fact, a brief summary of my speech. I am pleased that in drafting the draft we have understood what environment we are in. I am pleased that it has finally avoided the division of society in this moment of time. Indeed, I am very sorry, including by summing up earlier debates, that there has not been any attempt to achieve a win-win-win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U270	Reply. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I was mentioned, I can assure my colleague that there are no traditional or modern families. There are families and they are all worth the protection of the state, the attention of the state and the care of the state. The Social Democrats certainly don't want to push anyone under the table. The Social Democrats want us all to sit at a common table, just as in a decent Estonian family, where no one is left without help because his way of life, his orientation, his relations are not suitable for anyone else. That is why all our legislation must be directed at all people in Estonia, regardless of whether we like or dislike their relations or their registered or actually unregistered partnership or marriage or similar relations. As long as we do not come to the understanding that each of us is here with equal rights and equal opportunities, we will still be arguing about who wants to be pushed under the table. Why don't we just forget about this push, ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland, sitting at the table together as one family and caring about each other, especially during the crisis? Get behind the crisis now, that during the crisis we can push people back and forth, put them in the law, take them out of the law, the government does one thing, the group does not act like this during the crisis. This is not how we keep our society together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U272	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to cool off some emotions. With all due respect to women, I am now addressing dear male colleagues. Let's take some of this emotion off. Three things. First of all, you don't want to reduce this bill. It's not 40 children's bill, it's all the children's bill that's being planned. The 40 children who are today the target group affected by bankruptcy proceedings mean only one part of this bill. As it has already sounded here, even if there was a child now whose life would be affected, it would still be important. We don't know what the future holds. It has to be changed. The other half. As I said, the target group of the draft is much bigger, because what concerns parental benefit, parental leave, concerns all children, all families that plan small families. These changes need to be made. Thirdly, as it already sounded here, the situation of any family is not getting worse. I understand those who disagree with the compromise, but sometimes there is a need to compromise. I would remind you that politics is the art of compromises. Eduard, you can laugh or smile, but if there is a place of choice, whether to make the changes that are needed for all families today, or to leave these decisions in the drawer, because there is no consensus, then I think it is necessary to find that consensus for families with children. It's been found today. I ask for support for the decisions made by the Committee on Social Affairs. Let us proceed with this draft and adopt it so that the necessary changes for families with children can enter into force from 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U274	Thank you. I don't see any more requests to speak. Oh, it is. Speaking in a position. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U275	Thank you. I also think we should listen a little bit to what colleagues are saying in the Chamber. But in response to the Luck Hill: it is certainly a very important draft, but a part of society is still excluded from this draft. Just as you said yourself, a good colleague: if there is even one child who is optionally excluded, it is not good behaviour. The draft has been submitted by the Government of the Republic. If the Government of the Republic had the will, in principle, to protect all children, even the one that is currently outside, it would be optionally excluded from this, with the amendments that were made to the Government with a very good draft, but with the amendments that were made here, some children would certainly be excluded from this, if the government had a fundamental desire to treat all children equally, it would have bound this draft with a vote of confidence. This would have been voted on here, despite some opposition parties threatening to be blocked by the obstruction of this bill, but the government had the opportunity to stand firm on its principles and protect all children. The government didn't take this opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U276	Speaking in place, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U277	Yes, I would like to express my thanks to the government departments that they have shown intelligence, flexibility and compromises already several times during the composition of this Riigikogu and its government and have thus given the opportunity to supplement the legislation, not to confuse the work of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U278	Now, indeed, we have run out of requests for speaking and speaking. I'm closing the negotiations. We go to the amendments, we do not have too many, seven in total. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, several hundred were taken back. The first amendment is tabled by the Isamaa Group, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U279	This is not a good change, so I would like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U280	Sure, yeah. Let's make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of reviewing the amendments to draft 512 at second reading. We are dealing with the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been fully taken into account by the commission, but which the Social Democrats have asked for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U281	The amendment is supported by 57 delegates, 8 against and no abstentions. The amendment has been accepted. The second amendment, which is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee in its amendment No 7. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U282	I would also like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U283	Yeah, I'm not gonna do any more of that. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U284	There are 14 Members in favour of the amendment, 44 against the amendment and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee in its amendment No 7. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U285	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U286	I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U287	The amendment is supported by 21 Members, opposed by [46] delegates and with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, which is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U288	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U289	I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U290	The amendment is supported by 60 delegates, with 9 against and no abstentions. The proposal has been supported. Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has taken account in substance of Amendment 7. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U291	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U292	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U293	There are 22 delegates in favour of the proposal, 46 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland. The commission has taken this into account in substance in Amendment 7. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U294	Please let us vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U295	I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U296	The amendment is supported by 21 delegates, with 45 against. The amendment was not supported. And now there is the mothership, Amendment 7. This has been presented by the commission, or the Committee on Social Affairs, and it has also taken this into account. Yes, the author is the Social Affairs Committee and the lead committee has taken this fully into account. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U297	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U298	I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, which is tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, and which has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U299	The amendment is supported by 59 delegates, 10 against and no abstentions. The amendment has been supported. We have examined all the amendments to the draft. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 512 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U300	We are going to the seventh item on today's agenda: Second reading of the draft [Law] amending the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related to it. I call Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to reiterate that the draft relates to the transposition and implementation of European Union legislation and that it amends the management and capital requirements of investment firms in such a way that they are more dependent on the size of the companies and on the risks taken. It also simplifies the provision of investment services and reduces the obligation to provide information on investments between professional investors who are able to obtain and analyse the information themselves. The draft also increases the additional deposit compensation ceiling and increases the guarantee limit from EUR 70000 to EUR 100000 for real estate sales and other social events. We completed the first reading of the draft on 26 January. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by the deadline of 9 February. Okay. The Committee on Finance also requested an opinion on the draft from stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft. We asked Eesti Pank, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Banking Association and FinanceEstonia for an opinion. Only FinanceEstonia tabled amendments from these institutions. They concerned the threshold for drawing up a prospectus for the public offering of securities and the language requirement for the prospectus. FinanceEstonia asked that consideration be given to the possibility of waiving the obligation to disclose in the case of small-scale issues, i.e. EUR 1 to 5 million, specifying information on issues, or considering the possibility of raising the minimum threshold for the corresponding reporting obligation to EUR 2.5 million. Alternatively, it was asked to consider the possibility of excluding from the law an implementing provision which, in the absence of a ministerial regulation, provides for the obligation to draw up a prospectus even if the bids are less than EUR 5 million. This last proposal is to a certain extent taken into account in the list of amendments by the third amendment. In addition, FinanceEstonia asked for the law to be amended so that it would not result in the requirement to translate prospectuses into Estonian when the offer of securities is made in Estonia. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. We discussed this in depth in 2019 with regard to the processing of the amendment to the securities market law at that time. Okay. On 21 February, however, the Ministry of Finance submitted to the lead committee a proposal to introduce four amendments to the draft. On 7 March, they proposed two further amendments. The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 21 February and 7 March. On 21 February we examined the amendments prepared by the Ministry of Finance and examined the opinion of FinanceEstonia. The Commission also took procedural decisions on the draft. On 7 March, we also examined further proposals by the Ministry of Finance concerning payments from the Guarantee Fund in the event of international sanctions. Briefly on the amendments. There are seven in total and these are also included in the list of amendments. Six are based on proposals made by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, a further amendment concerning the time of entry into force of the Act has been introduced. The first amendment concerns the consent of the investment firm's clients to invest the assets together. The proposal states that such consent must be given on a durable medium, which does not necessarily have to be signed. The second amendment provides that the annual accounts of investment firms must be audited. The third proposal concerns a small-scale issue of securities. The proposal provides that such an issue does not require the drawing up of a prospectus introducing an offer, even if the Minister of Finance has not introduced simplified requirements for the securities information document. The fourth proposal stipulates that the Guarantee Fund is not required to compensate for a deposit or investment for the account of the Deposit Guarantee and Investor Protection Sectoral Fund to a person subject to an international sanction. The fifth proposal complements the law of the Guarantee Fund in such a way that, if the activities of an investment institution stop because an international sanction has been imposed on an investment institution or persons associated with it, no benefits are paid to it from the Investor Protection Sectoral Fund. The guarantee fund can pay out the corresponding benefits once the legal force of the international sanction has expired or the resolution procedure has been completed. Under the sixth proposal, the Guarantee Fund does not have to ask market participants in advance for a loan or guarantee from the State to make a payment, for example in the event of a bank's inability to pay. The seventh amendment is of a technical nature and concerns the time of entry into force of some of the provisions of the draft. They are proposed to enter into force on 30 March instead of 28 February. Before I come to the decisions taken by the Commission, I will also briefly review the discussions at the sitting of 21 February and 7 March. At the meeting on 21 February, Andrei Korobenik, chairman of the committee, announced that the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups had not tabled any amendments to the draft, but the proposals for amending the draft were submitted by the Ministry of Finance. The opinion on the draft was also received from the non-profit organisation FinanceEstonia. We had Thomas Honourable to present proposals from the Ministry of Finance. He pointed out that the Ministry's first proposal concerned investment of assets by investment firms. In practice, firms invest the assets of different clients together, it is cost-effective and transaction fees are lower. In such a case, the customer's consent must be obtained in order to keep the assets of different clients together. The current law, if interpreted conservatively, then requires written consent, which under our law means signature in paper or digital form. This is not a problem for Estonian clients, but when it comes to foreign clients, it is difficult to obtain such a signature. Digital signatures are not as widely used in Europe as we do. The proposal has come from market participants; the Financial Supervision Authority also supported it so that obtaining consent could be made a little softer, as European Union law allows it. The content of the amendment is that if, according to the current law, consent is to be obtained in writing, it is now sufficient that such consent is obtained on a durable medium, which does not necessarily mean signing. Regarding the second amendment, the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the current Securities Market Act does not explicitly provide that the accounts of an investment firm must be audited. The combined effect of the different rules can be read indirectly, but the law could be supplemented to avoid possible disputes. With regard to the third Ministry's proposal, Thomas Honourable explained that the Securities Market Act had previously amended the threshold from which a prospectus had to be drawn up in the event of a public offer of securities. Indeed, this threshold has been raised in the past from EUR 2.5 million to EUR 5 million, while it was foreseen that if the issue is between EUR 1 and EUR 5 million, the Minister of Finance may provide for requirements that should be disclosed to the investor. The current law retains an implementing provision under which, in the absence of a regulation by the Minister, a prospectus must also be drawn up for tenders below EUR 5 million. Under the proposal, this implementing provision will be repealed and, in the case of a prospectus of less than EUR 5 million, it will not be necessary to draw up a prospectus even if the minister does not have a regulation in place. The ministerial regulation is being prepared, we have been assured, but it may take some time to introduce it. I asked myself, on this point, that it would appear that the simplified disclosure requirements cannot be applied because the executive power has not introduced a regulation and, consequently, we are now seeking to repeal this provision of the law. I asked for further comments on this. The representative of the Ministry explained that nothing would happen if this implementing provision remained unchanged, and the Minister of Finance introduced a regulation providing for a simpler procedure for disclosure of information. However, if it happens that the Minister will later repeal the regulation, then the implementing provision will come into force again, which will require the drawing up of a prospectus for tenders below EUR 5 million. In order to avoid a situation where the drawing-up of a prospectus would no longer be required in the future, it is more legitimate to repeal the corresponding implementing provision. Riina Sikkut also pointed out that raising the threshold from EUR 2.5 million to EUR 5 million in the past led to a heated debate in the Commission. He asked what feedback had been given by the parties on this amendment, how far it would be to introduce a ministerial regulation and how strict requirements would be imposed on the parties to include up to EUR 5 million. The representative of the Ministry explained that the draft regulation had been prepared and was expected to be signed by the Minister. If it is signed in the near future and published in the Official Journal of the State, information documents can also be drawn up. The requirements laid down in the Regulation are much less stringent than those laid down in the prospectus: there are tens of points which determine the information to be provided to investors. The Regulation also provides for differences in the case of the issuer going to include money from crowdfunding platforms or from an alternative exchange. In such a case, the requirements of the Regulation no longer need to be complied with as they apply to common platforms and the alternative market. This has been the desire of the parties concerned to make the regulation as flexible as possible. The draft regulation has also been agreed with market participants and appropriate compromises have finally been reached. Okay. With regard to the fourth proposal, the Ministry's representative stated that this concerns the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act. He explained that, for example, if a person sells real estate, the corresponding funds are in a bank account for six months and something happens to the bank, these funds would be guaranteed at least EUR 100000. The basic level of protection is EUR 100000 and, in certain cases, an additional guarantee of EUR 100000 will apply. The proposal concerns a situation where some banks become insolvent and the Guarantee Fund does not have sufficient resources to meet its obligations. The current law provides that the State may then grant a loan or a State guarantee to that loan. The current law also says that before you go to the State to ask for a loan, you have to ask market participants for it from banks or from abroad. But it takes time and it is not always known how fast a loan can be obtained. If you make a corresponding prepared loan agreement with a foreign bank, this will mean quite a lot of extra costs for the Guarantee Fund. Under the proposal, a provision is removed from the law, which says that first you must go to other banks to ask for loans and only then can you turn to the state. The proposal gives the possibility to come to the State immediately to ask for a loan or a State guarantee. Okay. The representative of the Ministry noted that indeed, the earlier entry into force of some legal provisions was intended to be put into effect on 28 February, but now they should enter into force on 30 March. I asked myself to further clarify the term, i.e. explain what a clearing member is. This first reading also asked about this, and in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, this definition is a little confusing. This was further explained: clearing is a verification process that ensures the execution of a cash payment or a securities transaction, and in particular it concerns derivatives transactions and the control of their execution. There are separate clearing houses for clearing derivative transactions. The nearest clearing house is located in Sweden. Sweden Nasdaq offers this service and checks whether one side has securities for the transaction and the other side has money. Indeed, the term "clearing member" has not yet been used in Estonian law. At least for me, that was a good explanation. In the Commission, we also addressed the appeal to FinanceEstonia. It was about two issues. The first relates to the prospectus-free threshold already mentioned above. FinanceEstonia asks that consideration be given to whether, in the case of small-scale offers of securities between EUR 1 and 5 million, it is necessary to introduce a requirement for additional disclosure of information and, alternatively, to consider the possibility of raising the minimum threshold for the obligation to provide additional information from EUR 1 million to EUR 2.5 million, or to exclude from the law at least an implementing provision which, in the absence of a ministerial regulation, provides for the obligation to draw up a prospectus if the bids fall below EUR 5 million. The Commission reached a consensus that the proposed compromise proposal is flexible enough and takes due account of the wishes of FinanceEstonia. The second issue that FinanceEstonia raised was the language requirement for prospectuses when the offer of securities is made in Estonia. According to the current law, the full prospectus must be available in Estonian. FinanceEstonia wants the requirement to translate into Estonian not to come from the law, but to be left to the decision of financial supervision. But this issue, as I said before, has already been discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs before, and we still stuck with this language requirement. On 7 March we had a final meeting and there we examined the two additional amendments received from the Ministry of Finance, both of which concern payments from the Guarantee Fund in the event of international sanctions. Again, Thomas Honourable introduced these Ministry proposals and positions to us. I myself asked in this debate whether the legislation, which imposes sanctions at all, had already reached the commercial banks. The imposition of sanctions is mainly through commercial banks, I understand that. How is their implementation in practice anyway? The representative of the Ministry explained that this is not a quite new situation; sanctions have been applied in the past. Estonia's banks are indeed the main ones that are implementing them. Those who are on the list of sanctions cannot be served by banks. The list of sanctions is constantly updated. Jürgen Ligi asked whether the international sanctions were formulated in the amendment, whether they were delimited in any way and whether investor protection was also extended to people who were nationally sanctioned. The representative of the Ministry explained that the International Sanctions Act defines the International Sanctions Act as a general term. The narrower term relates in particular to the provision of financial services. There are a number of financial services that do not formally fall under the definition of financial services, such as crypto money. If we look at the law on international sanctions, it should include not only international restrictions but also internal restrictions. The word "international" can be a little misleading. The chairman summarised the discussion. The Commission also made proposals for decisions. First of all, put the draft on the agenda on 9 March, today. This proposal was consensual. The second proposal was to conclude the second reading, including a consensual one. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 16 March. This proposal was also consensual. Here I thank you for your attention and am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U302	There are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U303	Good manager! Good waitress! Here are Amendments No 4 and No 5, which say that a savings account held by a person subject to international sanctions at the date of reimbursement of the deposit, and so on, will not be reimbursed for the account of the GmbH. My question is whether it concerns the ongoing war. I am looking at two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance on 7 March. Is that the number four and the number five?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U304	Yeah, they're connected to these fresh sanctions, I get it. But in fact, the concept of sanction is not quite new, they have been there before, but they are due to this new situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U305	Again, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U306	Thank you. Good Aivar! This clearing term, I also got a response that we didn't understand before. But I'm asking you as a bigger spec. The answer here is that the clearing member is a bank that is a member of the clearing house, and some of them are also in Nasdaq. If an investment firm grows to a very large volume of assets of more than 5 billion and is also a clearing member, as risks increase, then the Financial Supervision Authority may consider such an investment firm as a bank in the future. In short, tougher requirements. Who is affected by this under Estonian conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U307	We have seven investment firms, and we don't have one that goes into this big group. We don't have one. We only have investment firms in the first group and in the second group. We don't have big ones like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U308	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Now we can open negotiations. Now don't all come at once. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U309	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would not be here if we had not discussed this excellent directive on the night of 21 January. It was 11:58, when we started, we ended up about an hour later. I am not going to go over it, Mr Sõerd has already pointed out some important things. But I found a definition there, and I asked the esteemed Minister of Finance what the animal is this clearing member. After that, this "clearing member" started flying, and the Minister of Finance didn't know that, of course. Made it look like he didn't hear. But after that, my colleague Aivar Sõerd said that there is a clearing member here. A clearing member shall be an undertaking that participates in the CCP and is responsible for fulfilling the financial obligations arising out of such participation. I admit I was embarrassed when I read the explanation for that term. What exactly is a CCP participant? He's some kind of opposite character, but the term could be worded. So if even Aivar Sõerd didn't know what that was then, it shows us that if we were talking about legal matters here with the esteemed Minister of Justice, who claimed that the legal language was excellent, it is a vivid example that it is not excellent. I got Aivar's answer from the minister's advisor on 3 February, obviously, what this clearing member is. Aivar already read it a little bit, but I'll read it to you, too, so it stays on record. Clearing is a verification process for derivative transactions to ensure the execution of a cash payment or a securities transaction, wrote Minister Pentus' advisor. In doing so, it will be checked whether there is money on one side and securities on the other side. Central clearing houses have been established for clearing purposes. There are 14 of them in the European Union. The closest to us is the Nasdaq in Sweden. Its members are several of our banks and investment firms. Maybe they're the clearing members who take on financial commitments to complete the securities transaction. This is much clearer than the definition that Finance Minister Pentus came before us on that memorable night. So a clearing member is a bank that is a member of the clearing house. As I now realized from Aivar's story, when I asked you about the next story, if an investment firm grows so large that more than 5 billion of its assets are who it is, then it turns out that we don't have any such things. We have these seven investment companies, which are so-called lower-class companies. So we finally figured out what a clearing member is. I would like to thank the advisers of the Minister of Finance in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U310	I don't see any more requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. We will now examine the amendments. Like I said, there's seven of them. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The third amendment, the author of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth amendment, the author's Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of it. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The sixth amendment, the author of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The seventh amendment, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 505 be terminated. The second reading is closed and this item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U311	Today's eighth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Isamaa Group. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U312	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The move of the Ministry of Education was decided to be approved by the government in 2000 under the leadership of Tõnis Lukas, then Minister of Education. In 2017, two thirds of the employees of the Ministry of Education and Research worked in Tartu and one third was in office in Tallinn. There are now more or less half of the officials in Tartu and Tallinn, but the people who work in management positions are all in Tallinn and, of course, also those who support the management, i.e. [Tallinn has employees] more and more. On 8 December in Postimees Mikk Salu wrote: "One ministry official who requested anonymity sent the Postimees a number of job advertisements from recent times and the "pinch" continues: the location of the work is indicated as Tallinn. The Ministry of Education says once again that both cities are able to work "The final physical job will be determined during negotiations with the first-time recruiter," wrote the Ministry's press advisor [... ]'. Minister Liina Kersna, when she attended Question Time on 10 January, said that she was absolutely convinced that the educational area had benefited from the fact that the main building was in Tartu and a branch in Tallinn. "According to this, it was a surprise to me that the CV-Online was up in the Ministry of Education and Research's job ads that the job was in Tallinn." That's the kind of thing that happens. It is no wonder that in the evening newspaper of December 22 [writing], (quote begins): "The thing that Reps started is that Kersna does not have to continue!" the Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas is in the direction of his party partner. In fact, Liina Kersna trumps even with the moving of the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn. " According to Klaas, it would be reasonable for the Ministry to grow its composition in Tartu, where there are 11 higher education institutions, including the most prestigious international university in Estonia, it is certainly possible to find the labour force in Tartu. According to the Mayor, the question is who the Ministry wants to direct its face to, whether to education or to Stenbock's house, is the best way to be towards schools in Tartu. Also, in Postimees's story, published on 13 December, the Vice Rector for Education, Aune Valk, of the University of Tartu, says: "Being convinced that there are certainly enough staff suitable for the Ministry in Tartu, and 20 years have shown that the Ministry is able to work outside Tallinn, it is just very unfortunate that one of the few substantive proofs of regional policy disappears step by step." (End of quote.) Based on these discussions in December and the fact that one of the important regional policy steps taken in 2000 has sneaked away and disappeared, the Isamaa Group has therefore tabled a bill bearing a beautiful round number of 500. This bill is very simple. The explanation in § 45 could become paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 would be as follows: "The location of the ministries is Tallinn, except the Ministry of Education and Research, which is located in Tartu. " Perhaps this could not be changed by sneaking. If the government is willing to change the location of the Ministry of Education and Research, this should be done in Parliament by amending the law. That is the actual content of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U313	Good waitress, thank you very much. Any questions? Very nicely you said, symbolically 500. That's right. That's half a thousand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U314	We can still do the rest of the half a thousand here, that's all right. Let's get the pace on. There was a great deal of talk about legislation here earlier. I also made sure that some things have moved faster, some slower. While the chairman spoke to me here, I am pleased to say that there is also, say, an important pace shown here. On 15 December, this draft was submitted to Parliament's proceedings and has not gone more than a quarter, and we are already dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U315	Got it. But you see, the question came up with this conversation. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U316	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good Priit! So how do you feel? Does the Minister of Education take this proposal seriously, or is he trying to put the bushes down quietly again and not keep this centre of gravity of the Ministry of Education in Tartu? Do you have any input on the coalition side?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U317	Thank you. No, I don't have any input from the coalition, and my feelings have nothing to do with this. But I can tell you what I saw on social media. After Minister Liina Kersna came to this Parliament to answer our questions, one beautiful Monday in January, when we had come to Parliament to work again, she put a picture in social media the next day, when she was in Tartu, and said that she liked Tartu very much. I think the Minister is working very well on the media, but I also very much hope for substantial editing. We also discussed this in the Commission. On the one hand, we can say that it's kind of simple and why we put it here and what's going to change about it and so on. But this regional political decision is, after all, the question of ministers and officials that which way [it goes]. The Minister also says that it happened to be clear that the partner who chose the employees had done so. They're little things. If there is a political decision, a regional political decision, then no one else will follow it. If it is political will, then it must be monitored and followed in all manner of steps, because it makes sense that life itself is, unfortunately, flowing, we all know, here, towards Tallinn. Of all the decisions that we are making in the other direction and which we do not want to change, we must hold on consistently. I very much hope so, at least the Minister has confirmed that it is not his will to change this location. We must use every means possible to ensure that this self-flow path is as complex and devious as possible if we cannot stop it. But I think it would be the most honest thing to have in the law that if anyone has a will, they come into this hall, they change it, and that's clearly a political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U318	Yeah. Let's get on with the questions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Although the latest changes have indeed been made during the time of Minister Liina Kersna, this movement to Tallinn has not been invented by her. I think you're familiar with that, too. The ERR wrote a year ago in the summer of then the Minister of Education was Mailis Reps, how in the job ads prepared by the Ministry, the location of the work was Tallinn. The same finger you referred to when you quoted Mikk Salu's article. Is there any way you can comment on this situation or describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U320	Thank you. As I said, when it comes to a political decision, on the one hand, and certainly also to a regional policy decision in this context, it is not up to ministers and ministerial leaders to decide how to hold it or what will to hold it. After all, it is who we are looking for who and where that word is placed in the quotation marks in the article. In the Commission, we also had a debate on why we are not talking here about other bodies, why only this [Ministry]. This actually shows, and we need to look at what comes out of this story, both from the perspective of the mayor and the Vice Rector of the University, that this institution can certainly be held in Tartu. There's competence, there's people. It makes no sense for us to make decisions with which we take the institution [to others] and people must also move. There is still some form of natural ability to hold this ministry in Tartu. It's just sad that he's flowing back quietly. After all, this is the main goal of keeping these things from flowing, but of making decisions. As you rightly pointed out, this has not only been the case for the Minister currently in office, but also for the previous time. But as the mayor says, maybe right now, Liina Kersna's gonna give Mailis Reps an eye out. I don't know how else to comment on that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U321	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U322	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I understand he's such a cowardly first step. This topic itself is very [wide]. Surely you also know that the Environmental Board has its head office in Pärnu. When Rainer Vakra took office as Director General, he announced in his first statement that he was working on a train. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, the vice-chairman to whom this green mindset and everything is very sweet, I approached him about how he is taking the train there so that he does not train to Pärnu right now. Then it turned out that he didn't go to Pärnu to work here in Tallinn. This mess, frankly, needs an audit. It has been said very much that it is very important, regional policy and in the context of the integrity of the Estonian state, to see that there are suitable jobs throughout Estonia. Should we suddenly open this whole package and look at it more seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U323	Thank you. As I said, the purpose of this draft is, of course, not to cover all the pain points in Estonia. But these regional policy decisions have been made, the government, the previous one has already made [the decision], and as far as I know, no government has changed it in the meantime that it is intended to move posts out of Tallinn. No one's gonna stand for it unless we do it ourselves. In this sense, of course, we must investigate. However, this is an old colleague of ours, but he is still new in his current profession, perhaps he has not looked at the articles of association, that he is actually based in Pärnu. It makes sense that if he takes the train to the wrong place, a few things happen, the secretary gets to the wrong place, and so on, right? That's how people are. In this sense, it was very right and reasonable for you to draw his attention to where the Environmental Board was actually located.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U324	The question also arose as to whether or not he had reached work at all, was Lelles, sitting and thinking. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U325	Good manager! Dear waitress, A little lean is the bill. Why didn't you expand the fact that, for example, the Ministry of Regional Affairs could be in Viljandi if Jaak Aab took hold, the Ministry of Culture would be in Rakvere, Üllar Saaremäe would step behind it, or the Ministry of Rural Affairs in Põlva, Tarmo Tamm, etc.? Its support area could be extended a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U326	Thank you. I hope that if this first reading ends today, we will be able to make these amendments. But as far as I know, the people you mentioned are not wearing these ministerial briefcases right now. In this sense, I can't say if and how it affects. But, as I said, it was also mentioned in the Commission. Of course, this issue does not solve everything. Rather, the idea and initiative of this draft began with the fact that we are making efforts here, we can joke, we can iron, but we all know that Estonia is moving in one direction. If we do not make the effort we can and systematically work towards it, we will see it... It does not make any sense to blame any Minister specifically, but we see that it has happened consistently, it is happening. The question is simply whether we want to have different positions and people across Estonia. We will probably only be able to do this with public authorities and, of course, not forced but moving towards it, by moving it, declaring that Estonia should be covered regionally with different jobs. We can do the things we can. We have some positive examples. As I said, in 2000 it was, and thanks to this, half of the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research are still in Tartu. If we want to keep it, we need to draw attention to this issue, keep it at the centre of attention, because there is hope that this self-flow will not be so fast, or hopefully it will flow back in the right direction. But only if we want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U327	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U328	Thank you, good waitress. I agree with Peter Ernits that this bill is lean. I am quite surprised that the Isamaa Group has tabled a mild draft. It should certainly be left in the process and strengthened during the procedure. I have a question from here. During the Commission's debate, did you discuss the subject I hope more broadly than in the context of this particular movement of the Ministry of Education? The government itself is a collegial body and different ministries, we understand, are Tallinn-centred. But we have autonomous constitutional institutions that can operate outside Tallinn very successfully. The Supreme Court in Tartu is a very good example. The Chancellor of Justice, for example, would fit Tartu next to the Supreme Court, perhaps also the Auditor General, etc. Did such matters come up for discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U329	Thank you. Specifically, the [examples] you referred to did not come, but a good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, also once again examined the reference to this draft in the context of its skinny appearance, so that the Fatherland could have been better and more successful to put these ideas in. But as I said, I very much hope that the people who are hearing this debate will see that we can move forward with this bill, the stronger and bolder we can write. But Kalle was wondering why we hadn't proposed anything to take to Paide. The same question and debate arose there. Kalle also specifically pointed out that since Türi once had an environmental college, right, could you think of something in this context and so on? As I said, it is important that there is a competence and a resource on the ground in the form of these people, so that we do not quite do so, so that we make everyone move, both authorities and people. These authorities, companies or institutions should be such as to enable people on the ground to still be involved. But we did not specifically discuss moving the Chancellor of Justice's office to Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U330	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U331	Yeah. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. It's nice to have a smoother surface and a wider surface. When [Ministry of Education] went to Tartu in its time, Tõnis Lukas was powerful and dragged him there. I see that Kaja Kallas and Maris Lauri are all the girls of Tallinn, they are of no use in this regard, but Kalle Laane is the Minister of Defence and an islander. Why not take the Department of Defense beyond this Russian border? Or Urmas Kruuse to take the Ministry of Rural Affairs to Elva, like getting stronger soil?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U332	Thank you. No, I wouldn't mind if Urmas Kruuse were in Elva and stayed in Elva, but he, I understand, likes to work in Tallinn. There's no way I can blame him for wanting to work here. We are part of the European Union, the free movement of people and labour, both within the country and within the European Union at large. But he hasn't taken such an initiative to set up a ministry next to his home. I don't quite know, of course, whether it's in Elva or it's in Tartu, I don't exactly know the living and jobs of all these people, once here, there. Urmas has also been very active in local politics; he has been the mayor of Tartu for a long time; before that he was really Elvas. But where he's living right now, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U333	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U334	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! The law isn't so skinny. They think you should look at it like it's served. I'd advise you to look it right in the face, then there's a nucleus. I also think that we should not try to solve all the world's pain at once, but it could really be such a good example of what else to do. Today we have been through certain institutions here. We also know the example of Viljandi, where the agencies and institutions are working well. Instead, my question is that if the Ministry of Education and Research were to put this stop in place, how would we still do it, so that he wouldn't go down again quietly for us. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Well, it was written that the place was there...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U335	Thank you. The question has been asked and the answer is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U336	Thanks, yeah! Our opportunity is to draw attention to this issue. You referred here to the example of Viljandi, where the Rural Promotion Foundation, Statistics Estonia, is quite a number of officials, the Department of the State Support Services Centre. So, in this sense, if you want to work and work systematically, this is possible both for institutions as a whole and for some departments of the institution, or it is possible to recruit some officials there. It is simply a question of looking at which agencies and where it is reasonable to take them, how to deliver them. But the current bill, after all, solves that, I understand, in fact, no one has had the political will to move away from this department, somehow it will. Of course, if the ministries are in Tallinn, it is easier, the government house is here too, as if it is easier to work. But it's been a regional political decision. In this sense, we need to deal systematically with this in order to maintain competence in different places. Of course, the committee also spoke about Pärnu on several occasions, as the chairman of the committee is from there. I see that there is political will, and these decisions are not simple. But we have to think it through. We will manage to ensure that people involved in education are more in Tartu. If we ask the Minister every once in a while and find out how many of these officials are in one place or another, whether cooperation with CV-Online has improved, whether they are no longer fingering them, and whether the Ministry itself is monitoring it and so on, this is how we get a better result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U337	Thank you. Let's finish this with a positive note, no more questions. Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm sorry, good waitress. I understand that a member of the Riigikogu wants a reclining because he was mentioned. We really do have the possibility of a rejoinder, but I hope that I am not wrong when I say that it is within the framework of negotiations under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, not within the framework of questions and answers. Please, Mr. Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U338	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit right now that I'm not quite sure that I can maintain this emotional level of fishing that has arisen here during this discussion. But I'll do my best anyway. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 February this year. In addition to the members of the Constitutional Committee, Monika Tappo, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited and Epp-Mare Kukemelk, Head of Communication of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, was also present. I will first give an overview of the attitude that was dominant in the Commission's sitting, and perhaps also of the fundamental question of why the Commission reached such procedural decisions as it came to. First of all, I dare say that at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, no one had the desire to move from the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn. Although there were questions about why he was taken there, at the committee meeting, I did not identify this will that there was a desire to bring the Ministry of Education and Research from Tartu to Tallinn. Moreover, I dare confirm, having also spoken with the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, that neither Liina Kersnal nor today's government coalition is planning to move the Ministry of Education to Tallinn. So, in fact, the fears that have arisen through the press or even on the surface of some job advertisements do not have a substantive basis, such a desire or plan. Now what else to say? Indeed, there was a great deal of talk about it at the committee meeting, Mr Priit Sibul also introduced it, that it really is a very important regional policy measure, the establishment of a government institution, especially a ministry outside Tallinn. Actually, that's what no one's arguing or arguing about. Of course, especially the county or city in which the Ministry is located will certainly win. I, too, have spent a lot of time in Pärnu, have fought with my soul in various trades for a government agency or ministry to come to Pärnu. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that for a reason that is unknown, the Ministry of Education and Research actually moved to Tartu in 2000 and today it is 2022, but this has remained a precedent. It also raises the question of whether this has been a good and right practice or not. I do not think that this analysis has been carried out, what it looks like in the sense of Estonia as a whole. There was a lot of talk today that this bill was a little thin so it could be expanded. Indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalle Grünthal repeatedly asked which ministry the initiators of the draft had then planned for Järvamaa. Mr Priit Sibul replied that, in reality, the main and primary aim of this draft was to perpetuate the word there, or to confirm [this ministry] to Tartu, not so much to consider the removal of other ministries to other counties. But certainly Mr. Onion did not rule out the possibility that when such a bill comes, they would be prepared to discuss the possibility of moving another ministry elsewhere in Estonia as well. But I must point out, listening to this discussion here too, that this [draft] is not at all as thin as it seems to concern only the Ministry of Education and Research. Not at all. If it is fixed here that the location of the Ministry of Education and Research is Tartu, then in order to keep this common line, the location of other ministries has also had to be fixed, and Tallinn has been established as the location of all other ministries. In my opinion, this is not so thin that it concerns only the Ministry of Education and Research, but, at least according to the proposal, Tallinn is also the location of other ministries at the level of the Government of the Republic Act. In this sense, this bill concerns all ministries. The main question is, however, once again, in this, as I said, there is no dispute over the content, no one disputes it, certainly there are different opinions that the Ministry of Education and Research could be located in Tartu. There is no doubt that there is competence, there is certainly no question about that. But the key issue is that we actually set a precedent with this bill, we at the level of the law fix the location of the government institution. The general rule is that according to the Government of the Republic Act, the offices of ministries are determined in the Statute and the statutes are adopted by the Government of the Republic. There is one exception to the fact that, at the level of the law, there is a fixed office of government, we are talking about ministries, the State Chancellery, offices, inspections, and this is one of the exceptions of the Government of the Republic. The seat of the Government of the Republic is indeed a fixed law. The Act of the Government of the Republic states that the location of the Government of the Republic is Tallinn. The location of no other government institution has been fixed at the level of the law, but has been the subject of a statute which, in certain cases, is confirmed by the Government of the Republic in the case of ministries, but, in the case of agencies and inspections, by the Minister. So here is the question, however, in this case, of the Constitutional Law, when we are talking about the Government of the Republic Act, whether it is practically reasonable to do so at the level of the Law. In fact, let us also see that the Law of the Government of the Republic has been in force since 199[6], but, figuratively speaking, until today, this problem has never really occurred anywhere or had not occurred a few months ago. This, too, has confirmed that today's system could and has actually been fair. It is not, once again, a question of substance, but a question of whether it is formally the right way to fix the locations of government institutions at the level of the law, as is the case here. This is a key issue, not that anyone has any objections to the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research is located in Tartu, but also in Tallinn. Now, in a few words, the Commission's meeting, in addition to what has been said. I am not going to repeat Mr Priit Sibula, his presentation here was even brighter than it was in the committee sitting, where it was perhaps not so emotional but of the same quality. In fact, Oudekki Loone wanted a better explanation as to why the establishment of the Ministry of Education and Research is necessarily necessary in Tartu, given the fact that all other ministries are in Tallinn. At the same time, he did not contest it. He also said that the establishment of the Ministry of Education and Research in Tartu is not necessarily bad, but wanted to explain why it was necessary. Mr Priit Sibul once again replied that in this case it really was not a new situation, a new situation, but a consolidation of the existing situation, and this could be done at the level of the law. Mr Priit Sibul also repeatedly stressed that this was still a very important regional policy measure. Indeed, there is no reason for anyone to challenge this. As I pointed out, Kalle Grünthal repeatedly and consistently wondered which ministry was planned for Järvamaa. Once again, Mr Priit Sibula's answer was that the purpose of this draft is primarily to secure the Ministry of Education and Research in Tartu, and at the moment they have no plans to move to other ministries elsewhere in Estonia. However, he mentioned that if anyone had to submit such a draft, they would certainly be prepared to consider and discuss it. The Government of the Republic had also formed its position on this draft, and the Government of the Republic had decided not to support it. They, too, pointed out that the Government of the Republic Act had already entered into force on 1 January 1996 and that this principle has been in force until today, that the seat of the ministries will be established by the Government of the Republic if it confirms these statutes. They considered that this was also a matter of the government of the Republic of Estonia's self-regulation and that it was not practically justified to grant [right] to Parliament. It was again referred to as the Constitutional Law of the Government of the Republic, which is why it is not appropriate to burden it with such details. Rather, it could be the other way round to remove such details from the Government of the Republic Act, in this case we want to bring in one such detail. The Commission then took procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 March 2022. It moved to this day on my proposal, because other meetings were planned yesterday, which did not materialise, but which would have made it impossible for me to be a waitress here today. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. There were 5 [members of the Commission]: Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Tõnis Mölder, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. One against the one against Priit onion. On that day, Priit Sibul took part in a session as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There were also 1: Kalle Grünthal. The decision to appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, was consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U339	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U340	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I have a question: what measures do you think we will be able to take as a Parliament or to ensure that this is not the case if a political decision has been taken? I expect you to constate and support the views of your party associates, which the mayor of Tartu has, etc. We actually see that political will and decision have been one and life has gone the other way. The second question is how you seemed. I see that Mr Oudekki Loone has recently expressed various strange views on quite different topics. With my explanation of why this bill was presented and what is the purpose of this bill, was I able to make it clear what our aim was?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U341	Thank you. I don't dare say if Oudekki Loone understood that explanation or not. I certainly understood it very clearly, in any case, everything was very clear and understandable. As for the fact that one thing is political will and formal decision, the other is how things really are, indeed, there cannot and must not be such a contradiction here. I think this parliamentary scrutiny worked well enough, as you suggested above. After you had submitted the draft, Minister Liina Kersna said that Tartu is a very nice place and this is the very right place where the Ministry of Education should be located. Sometimes a very honourable Member's message to the public is enough if it gets enough attention. I think that even in this case it already works enough, perhaps indeed these some job competitions need some clarification. I think you have already achieved this objective by presenting this draft. In any case, I commend you for that. I don't think there's much of a need to start writing this location into government law anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U342	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U343	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! We may have achieved this objective, perhaps the vox populi will also realise that there is a problem, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs simply did not identify that there is a problem. That's weird. Maybe you're still following up on that constitution. But in essence, people understand that the Ministry is moving quietly, sneaking back to Tallinn. It is difficult to understand what is detected there and what is wanted to be identified at all. But now, linguistically. You also said that the Ministry of Education and Research is located in Tartu and Tallinn. Alphabetically, the Ministry of Education and Research should be located in Tallinn and Tartu. According to the order of alphabetic cities, is this a guideline taken? Or is it rather personal comfort that it is possible to cooperate cross-border with Finland here in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U344	Thank you, dear questioner. I'm going to say right now that the alphabet has nothing to do with this case. The statute approved by the Government of the Republic must be read. The Statute of the Ministry of Education and Research states that the location of the Ministry of Education and Research is Tartu. It's as simple as that. So the alphabet has no meaning. Yes, indeed, we can say that de facto the Ministry of Education and Research is located both in Tallinn and in Tartu. I'm telling you the truth, I don't know if it's really good that he's in two places. But it's a matter of its own and it has its own arguments, certainly its own pros and cons. But once again, de jure must still be looked at in the Statute, which has been confirmed by the Government of the Republic. It clearly states that the Ministry of Education and Research has its legal seat in Tartu, but it is de facto located both in Tartu and Tallinn. Secondly, whether or not there is a problem now. I do not think that this is the world's greatest concern in this case. Once again: of course, these formations can change slightly from time to time, right, but I will say again that there has been no cardinal change in the big picture. Perhaps, in the context of a competition for work, some of the ads have not been the most accurate, with this legal location in mind, but sometimes, since this ministry is de facto located in two places, indeed, I do not know, if some department is forgiven, I do not know the details and the person is sought there in Tallinn, it is logical to show that the work is located in Tallinn. It is not conceivable that some department, located in Tallinn, is employed in Tartu. Then it makes perfect sense that it is also known from the ad for the search for this employee that the place of work is indeed Tallinn. There's no point in even ironing it. If for practical reasons this is right and reasonable, and this particular department is located in Tallinn, it is very logical that this new employee will also find his place in Tallinn and he knows where he will have to work. I think it is very important, in the sense that for a very large number of people this is crucial, is it not, whether I am running or not, whether my job will be in Tartu or in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U345	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Toomas, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Indeed, we have actually cut through the fact that it is often not where this worker is located, but the question is what he is doing, who he is working for and what is the result of this work. My question to you, however, is this: should it not be that the state of Estonia is more than a coalition agreement or a regulation whereby the Government of the Republic establishes a certain location? We have a legislator, we have a constitution, we have a Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If we agree on the structure of our state at parliamentary level in principle, if we agree on the law, then this is a very fundamental issue, which is very difficult to break, as the same Tartu case shows. Shouldn't that still be a matter of law? It seems to me that it should.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U347	Thank you, very respectable questioner. Of course, if it is written into the law, especially the law of the Government of the Republic, it is considerably more difficult to change it. But we all realize that's not impossible either. Of course, it will get more public attention then, but the coalition will still be able to make that decision. But, of course, the public's attention is considerably greater and, in this sense, it is certainly as if the purpose of you or of the initiators of the draft is justified by the fact that it is written up at the level of the law. But once again, the Law of the Government of the Republic has been in force since 199[6], and we still have no problems with the location of one ministry or another. Once again: burden the laws with details such as the location of the ministry, I think, especially the Government of the Republic Act as a constitutional law, it is not purely formalised. Even if the political objective and the substantive objective are fully argumentable and understandable, and no one is arguing against it, but we do not have to write everything into the law. I don't know what else we're gonna have to start writing in the law if we're gonna be more specific. Perhaps we are often too detailed about the law, we should be considerably less detailed. We want to prescribe everything, and there will be no free country left for the official. I think this is the wrong way. In this case, what one official should decide is not the seat of a single ministry. But in principle, I think officials don't want to think creatively or have no room for it. They are attached to the text of the law [to] and they can only so decide and act as the law prescribes. I don't think it's actually a very good way out of the principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U348	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now we have reached the most important issue. That is precisely the fact that it must actually be in the law. You indicated that this issue would then receive much more attention. I do not agree with you, and certainly this debate and the debate are also paying attention to this issue, but I am afraid that we are not talking about this every week, either in your committee or in this Chamber. After a while, we notice that a number of people have moved. It is precisely by writing into the law that this is an opportunity for us to make this change here with a political decision and to discuss it. Of course, we have seen that even a parliament adopts laws that do not ultimately hold the Supreme Court. These things have been done in this house. The law can do reasonable things, but it can be wrong. No one considers COVID's limitations in society reasonable. We haven't decided on them, yet they're valid. No one understands why or how and when they disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U350	Thank you, dear colleague Priit. I can refer here to Mr Metsoja, who said that we are still moving more and more towards the fact that such a legal seat is no longer the most important. In fact, in the context of teleworking, where a person works, it is much more secondary. So I think we're going kind of further and further than [one] physical location. Perhaps [people] are scattered all over Estonia. Under the conditions of COVID, I think a lot of ministerial staff worked in their own country, in Pärnumaa or Viljandi County or anywhere. We're going more like this way. The other thing is that it is, of course, emotionally important. Once again, it is vital and important for this particular county, in this case it is vital and extremely useful for Tartu that the Ministry of Education and Research is located there. It is additional investments, it is additional jobs, it is better access to the service, it is a whole series of things. So no doubt the county will win. In that sense, it's important. But if we look from this side of the Riigikogu hall, I think that the more important thing is not where the Ministry is, but what it does, how it does and how it manages its work. I think that this side of content is more important than the formal location. In this case, I exclude Tartu, which is clearly a beneficiary in a good sense because the Ministry of Education and Research is located there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U351	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U352	Thank you. Madam waitress, thank you for trying to calm the initiator and put the honey on his mocha, claiming that the objective has already been achieved in the course of this debate, probably in the hope that the initiator will withdraw this draft. But I'll let you know that the initiator doesn't take back, we'd like to vote, too. This statement that there has not been a problem that should be fixed at the level of the law that we are discussing this draft today is a confirmation that the problem has arisen. There is about the same problem that there is a railway station in Mõisaküla, but the trains are not running, Haapsalu is too. There is a ministry in Tartu, but at one point there are no more employees, there is no real one. There's a sign, but the ministry isn't really there. That is the problem, with the help of the executive power, that this process has been carried out sneakily. Perhaps, however, it would be more reasonable to fix this in the law, and in the future these changes should be introduced by amending the law? Now we are forced to change the government to solve this problem. This is not a better alternative. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U353	Thank you, Reverend Asker! There is certainly no need to change the government, because I repeat once again: neither the Government of the Republic nor the Minister of Education and Research have plans to move away from Tartu. So there is no need to change the government, we have a very good government. The other thing, the discussion in principle doesn't mean there's a problem, Helir. The debate itself does not mean that there is a problem. I do not want to say that this debate today does not mean that there is a problem. But there may be something to discuss in the principle, but that doesn't mean it's a problem. In this case, I admit that yes, you have caught the fact that some of these suspicious movements have taken place, and therefore you have not set it up in an empty space. So I admit that this seemed to be a problem for you, but I can confirm once again that this problem has actually found a solution thanks to you. You've drawn attention to this. I don't want to confirm that anyone actually had a plan. But if it did, that is enough reason for Members to respond to it. As Mr Priit Sibul also pointed out, the Ministry of Education and Research responded to this very adequately in the spirit that this draft had actually been presented and which was your concern, and this concern was resolved. I think that the public's attention due to the fact that it has been discussed in this Chamber today is so great that no one dares even discuss this matter in the next ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U354	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U355	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Well, I understand that Tartu is actually completely behind the tree for the limeberry, because it is very difficult to go there. I've even gone to the Exploited concert, from Lake Võrtsjärv one way and the other way, a completely incomprehensible place. Good thoughts and all. But let's take the example of Pärnu. Pärnu is now a so-called summer capital. What do you mean, summer capital, there's no [summer] anywhere else? In fact, Pärnu is windy, it is better in the interior. Why does it have to be [for this] Pärnu all summer at all? He could be there a little bit. It doesn't matter what Pärnu is or what the summer capital is. I mean, if this college is moving away from Pärnu now, then the location isn't important. We say it's Pärnu branch now, but people work somewhere else. As a representative of Pärnu residents, would you be just as sure that the location is not important, nothing is important and everything is normal in principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U356	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, Tartu is not behind a tree for me. If Tartu is behind the tree for you, that's your problem. I get there very well, despite the fact that we do not have the train connection or the air connection to Tartu, which was once, in fact. I remember, at the time I went to college, I had a classmate who took off from Kuressaare, landed in Pärnu, and then another colleague from Viljandi came on top of me, that was the time, and eventually landed in Tartu. For me, Tartu is certainly not behind the tree, I certainly do not agree with it, it is not accepted. As far as college is concerned, of course I am with you, Tarmo, absolutely agree that this is crucial. But neither college nor college is guaranteed by the fact that its legal address is in Pärnu. I think it doesn't guarantee at all that if we put Pärnu as a legal location. However, this depends on the financial opportunities, the priorities of the mother university, rather than on other things. It would be ugly if we would ensure that the University of Tartu Pärnu College is settled in Pärnu forever and ever by putting it in the law. Unfortunately, life isn't that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U357	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U358	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear waitress, I have a question as to whether anyone in the Commission also pointed out that the location of the Ministry of Education and Research in Tartu is not a regional policy measure to promote Tartu, but [it is necessary] for us to have knowledge-based, good decisions in organising higher education, at all in the field of education. As a so-called spirit capital, Tartu is pregnant with good thoughts and it also fertilises the environment of decisions. In my opinion, the draft law initiated by the Isamaa Group will help to draw attention to this. However, this did not come out of the Commission's report. Speaking of regional policy action, I would really be concerned why we are not discussing the need for similar development in other cities. But it is not precisely the regional policy measure that is at issue, but the environment in which these decisions are created. If the University of Tartu had ever moved to Pärnu, it really should be in Pärnu. This decision was barely made that he was reopened in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U359	Thank you, very respectable questioner. The University of Tartu has also been in Pärnu during difficult and difficult times. But indeed, I agree with a hundred percent. When I also emphasised the regional political aspect of the draft, the representative of the initiator stressed the fact that it is perhaps a bit egotistical in the sense that Tartu will definitely win. I also said those arguments why he would win. But it is clear from the day that the Ministry of Education and Research is not randomly located in Tartu. I don't want to mention any other counties, but obviously this spiritual potential, the aura that is in Tartu, has been borne in mind. This will certainly have a very positive effect as a whole. So this inclusion of potential, even from these people, I think many who are working in Tartu today would not be willing to work at the Ministry of Education and Research in Tallinn for the reason that their place of residence is in Tartu, which is why we have indeed involved the spiritual potential that is undoubtedly in Tartu. I am not too critical, as I said above, in the sense that the Ministry of Education and Research is located there. But once again, a separate question for good colleagues is that some of the lower government institutions have moved to other counties, but the Ministry of Education and Research is the only ministry that has moved outside Tallinn. This is rather a more serious point of discussion. Although I am quite frankly saying that I am not too liberal in terms of spreading the ministerial level. There are still certain problems and there are also synergies. I say that history may still confirm that since [these examples] are only one, there are therefore a number of other arguments that still support the fact that at least at the level of the ministry, let's say the rest of the ministries are in Tallinn. After all, the draft initiated by Isamaa supports the consolidation of the rest of the ministries to Tallinn, and this is a very important, very correct position. Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U360	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U361	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am listening to this discussion here and I agree with one hundred percent that in Tartu there may be better fertility opportunities than in Tallinn. But I remember when the Ministry of Education was taken to Tartu. Then after a few years, it was a pretty public secret that more people had to be taken and much more money was spent. Perhaps we should think about taking 100 percent of the Ministry of Education to Tartu. I am not against regional development, absolutely not. But my question is whether you also discussed the need for resources in the Commission. It's one thing to make emotional decisions, another to calculate resources. Is there a need for people [to] in this regard, or can the number of people be reduced, can they be aggregated, what housing costs, what travel costs? Because inevitably we can't work on the Internet alone, especially in government agencies, I think that's pretty clear. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So did you discuss resource accounting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U362	Thank you, dear questioner. That's not what we discussed. For a very simple reason. As a general rule, I fully agree that if there is a transfer of one or another ministry to another county, this obviously means some additional costs, but in this case, this has also been repeatedly emphasised by the initiators of the draft legislation, this is a confirmation of the existing situation, no changes are actually planned to the location of the ministries, which is why there will be no additional costs. This has also been the clear position of the initiators of the draft. In this sense, it is God's right that every bill must also have budgetary implications. Its impact on the budget is zero, no additional costs of approving this draft by the Riigikogu will definitely not come. This reinforces the existing situation. But if you ask me if the location of the ministry in two places is the right one, then personally, this is purely my personal opinion, I don't think it's in itself a very good way. But I'm certainly not the most qualified person here to think or decide. We must then analyse if politicians have such will and desire. But I myself am somewhat skeptical. If you did, you could totally be, and if you didn't, you wouldn't be at all. However, this [is not] the subject of this draft and therefore was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U363	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Do you want to open up a draft of 500 negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. We have a first reading. Let me get this straight. The representative of the Isamaa Group is Üllar Saaremäe. Please join the Riigikogu Chair, Üllar Saaremäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U364	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! The subject developed very dynamic, but there are reasons for it. The move of the Ministry of Education was decided and approved by the Government of the Republic, indeed, as has been said today, under the leadership of Tõnis Lukas, then Minister of Education. As we know, there are more or less equal employees in Tallinn and Tartu. There are 162 people in Tartu and 133 in the capital. The people who work in leading positions are all in Tallinn. For the first time in its history, the Ministry of Education has reached the position where the Ministry's top management, that is, the Minister, Chancellor and Deputy Chancellors are located in Tallinn. Paradoxical situation. The headquarters of the Ministry is in Tartu, Tallinn has only a branch, but the entire management is in the branch and the subordinates are in the head office. Five years ago, in 2017, two thirds of the employees of the Ministry of Education and Research worked in Tartu and only one third was in Tallinn. I repeat: there are now more or less half of the employees in [two cities]. If this is not quietly sneaking from Tartu to Tallinn, what do we call it? Knowing that it really is, it keeps growing. For how else can the Vice Rector for Study Aune Valgu's saying "Being convinced that there are certainly enough staff for the Ministry in Tartu and 20 years have shown that the Ministry is able to work outside Tallinn, it is just very unfortunate that one of the few substantive proofs of regional policy disappears step by step"? Then what is it? Bypass? Don't understand each other? Today, the reform party, the Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas, has already been quoted several times, according to which it would be reasonable for the ministry to grow its composition in Tartu, which has 11 higher education institutions, including the most prestigious international university in Estonia. It is certainly possible to find a ministry in Tartu. According to the mayor, it's a matter of who the ministry wants to direct their faces to, either education or the house of Stenbock. "It is best to be in Tartu with a view to schools," says the Reform Party Mayor. Once again, I ask what it is. Bypass? You don't understand each other, do you? The Statute of the Ministry of Education, the Statute adopted on the basis of the Government Act, clearly states that the Ministry of Education is located in Tartu. Period. That's what it sounded like today. As has been said today, in modern society, it is normal for teleworking to take place. But the fact that the Ministry is sneakyly dragged back from Tartu to Tallinn cannot be accepted by the Fatherland. Firstly, it is not legitimate in the rule of law and, secondly, it is a fundamental and wrong signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U365	Thank you, good waitress. I now ask Kalle Grünthali, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! First of all, I warmly thank Priit Sibula, the waitress of the Fatherland Party. Thank you very much, Mr Kivimägi, which means that nothing goes wrong again. You personally touched me so much in the debate on this bill that I could have spoken from my seat for at least 20 minutes because of the mention of my name. Thank you once again from the heart. This is certainly a very interesting draft. I'm sure you're also interested in why I asked so many questions about the possibility of bringing other ministries to Paide in Järvamaa. I'm sure Viljandi and Pärnu would be interested, Toomas Kivimägi would have a very strong desire, including Valga [would be interested]. What's this about? That is a very serious question. In this move that I wanted to do, but which did not find the support of Mr Priit Sibula, the aim was to revive the regional development of this place by bringing the ministries there. Do you understand? The question is that if the Ministry comes to Tartu for example, this will lead to the presence of a very large number of officials. When some politicians from some political parties say that all the potential of wisdom is only in Tallinn, I say that it is not. Very wise people are also present in rural areas. I am sure that both Tartu and Paide, Türi, Viljandi and Pärnu will be able to man all these ministries with practical people who have studied their specialty and are able to fill the positions offered in this ministry. Therefore, this bill would, in fact, encourage regional development. If these people are still there and do not tend to go abroad, they will make a huge contribution. Main thing: Because of this draft, these local officials in the Ministry would also generate income as taxpayers in this county. Anybody disagree? No, it is also a pure budgetary issue. In this sense, I very much supported Priit Onion's proposal, which simply brings more funds. Helir-Valdor Seeder actually drew attention to this problem right here in the Chamber, even though he commented on Mr Ernitsa's ironic comment as to why Paides and Pärnu were not present. Actually, Peter didn't use irony. It was immediately hit by Helir-Valdor Seeder that this issue needs to be expanded across Estonia. Because we have the ability to do this, we have Zoom, we can communicate everywhere, we don't have to hang out and drink coffee. A good colleague, Priit Sibul, did not understand my reasoning. Unfortunately. When I went to vote, I was forced to press the "Universal" button, because this bill stated the following: "The location of the ministries is Tallinn, with the exception of the Ministry of Education and Research..." More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U367	Yeah, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U368	"... is located in Tartu. " With my long struggle, I kept trying to signal that we were going forward, that we were going wider, as my good colleague Mr Seeder said today. But we didn't. And that's why I pressed the "Unbound" button. Kersti Sarapuu is in this hall right now. We know how we both fought for Järvamaa, don't we? We had a chance to do all this right now, Kersti. Good Kersti, you know. We're both patriots of our home, aren't we? Now it's like I don't even know what I'm gonna do with this bill. If suddenly it could still expand a little bit of this and bring these ideas out, because it is important, it is important for regional development all over Estonia. Isn't that right, Kersti? [[Voice in the hall.]] Good for you! Yeah. But as they say, what's before "but" is irrelevant. Unfortunately, once again, I am forced to press the "Universal" button, because in this form, this bill does not work for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U369	Thank you. Now I am really going to say right now that very many members of the Riigikogu have the possibility of being rejoined by the law, so you can safely prepare yourself. There were a lot of people mentioned here, and it would be very interesting to know what you think about this thing. Reid, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U370	Thank you. I've got my hands up, that's procedural. I actually have a rejoinder in my back pocket.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U371	Sorry, procedural question. You're right. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U372	I have a procedural question because, at first reading, talks are being held on behalf of the group. Mr Grünthal, on behalf of the Group, said that they did not know how to behave. This means that the EKRE does not know how to vote. What does the Rules of Procedure Act say to us in such a situation? What do we have to do if one group does not know how they should behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U373	Thank you. In my opinion, the law here fully provides this opportunity to continue to consult in the form of a debate and to take a break before the vote. This will give all the political groups the opportunity to stop and think for a second. One way is to move forward more forcefully. Okay. No more calls, no more rejoinders, no procedural questions. Then I close the negotiations and now we start the bill... Priit Onion, please! Please, a microphone for Priit onion! You want a call? What do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U374	No, when we get to the vote, I'd just like to ask for a five-minute break. I would explain to Grünthal and the other EKRE people what we were thinking then and how to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U375	I think that makes sense in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U376	The only way to actually give Kerst a chance with this bill is to finish the first reading of this bill so that we can root and solve this Paide issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U377	If you say so. These are, of course, amendments, not grafting, but, in principle, I understand your point. We're on the verge of a vote right now. Your wish, I understand, is a recess for five minutes. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U378	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Onion, you and Mr. Grünthal have settled things? You got it. The Paide issue has been resolved. Then can we proceed to the vote? We can. Very good. Very good! We are currently in the process of voting on the proposal of the lead committee. The subject is the draft law amending the Law of the Government of the Republic initiated by the Isamaa Group 500. Therefore, good Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject the 500 proposals at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U379	In favour of 36, against 13, with 0 abstentions, the proposal was supported and the draft was rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U380	Ladies and gentlemen, Our ninth and therefore last item on the agenda is the first reading of the law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act (implementation of the provisions on return of the Schengen acquis.) [proposal] 518. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U381	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act (implementation of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in the field of return). The purpose of the draft is to bring national law into line with European Union regulations on the establishment of alerts on return and refusal of entry in the Schengen Information System. In addition, the legislation will be clarified in the light of the comments made to Estonia in the Schengen evaluation of the area of return. The Government of the Republic approved the draft on 13 January. The Schengen Information System is the most widely used EU information system with nearly 2 million end-users in the competent authorities of the Member States. Since its introduction, the data of third-country nationals who have been subject to a Schengen refusal of entry for reasons of public policy or national security have been entered. In the future, all Member States will also be obliged to enter data in the Schengen Information System for a third-country national who has been refused entry due to his or her illegal stay in the Schengen area. Such an alert shall take effect in the Schengen Information System at the time of the departure or expulsion of an alien from the Schengen area. In order to ensure that a third-country national staying in the Schengen area without a legal basis fulfils his/her obligation to leave, a new so-called return alert will be created for the information system. This allows the competent authorities of a Member State to verify whether another Member State has already issued a return decision for an alien and, where appropriate, to enforce it themselves. The draft gives the Police and Border Guard Board the right to enter and delete alerts on both return and refusal of entry into the Schengen Information System as soon as the police become aware of the basis for deletion of the alert, such as the alien has in the meantime been granted a residence permit to another Member State or has obtained the nationality of a Member State. In the future, the deletion of an alert for refusal of entry from the Schengen Information System does not require a decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The period of implementation of the Regulations shall be determined by means of an implementing act of the European Commission. According to the current information, Member States need to be ready to interface with the Central System and the corresponding legislative changes will enter into force by 14 June this year at the latest. In 2018, Schengen evaluations in the field of return were carried out in Estonia for the first time and following comments made in the evaluations, the law specifies the definition of the host country. The Police and Border Guard Board will also be allowed to detain an alien in order to establish the legality or illegality of his or her stay and to determine the necessity of his or her detention for the purpose of the return procedure. At the moment, such detention is only possible in the context of an emergency caused by mass immigration. In normal circumstances, however, the conduct of primary procedural procedures may require more time, for example an interpreter from another Member State may be required for procedural procedures. However, if a foreigner escapes before determining the foreigner's obligation to leave, the police cannot subsequently ensure that the alien's obligation to leave is fulfilled. The Police and Border Guard Board has the right to observe an alien for up to 48 hours in order to carry out the initial procedural procedures. This period can be extended by the Administrative Court for up to three days. Following the initial procedural procedures, the Police and Border Guard Board can detain an alien in Estonia without a legal basis, with the permission of the court, if this is necessary to prevent the risk of escape or to obtain travel documents. Due to European Union law, an alien can be detained for up to 18 months for expulsion purposes. Thank you for listening, and I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U382	Yeah. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U383	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Can you tell us a little about the figures and how many people in Estonia who have received an obligation to leave but who have not fulfilled it or who have not been expelled? Likewise within the European Union, because it is claimed that there are millions and millions of such individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U384	Thank you. Good question. In Estonia, let's say, the share of expulsions is very high, above 90%. The European Union average is about 35%, if I remember correctly. This difference is due to the fact that in Estonia there is an expulsion country in general in Ukraine or Russia, with which good relations have been and where it has been easy to send people out. In the European Union as an average, we know, these countries are a little more problematic where people must be expelled, there are no bilateral agreements or, for example, there are no multilateral agreements between the European Union and these third countries. Indeed, the European Union's average is not so good. In Estonia, as I said, it is over 91%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U385	Good minister... However, there is still a question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U386	Why don't you open up the bill for how many people who have an obligation to leave or who should be sent out to a country that hasn't got a permit to be here? How many people have remained illegally and how many of them are staying illegally in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U387	Thank you. I don't know how to get you European Union numbers right now. I can certainly search and answer in writing. When we look at the picture of Estonia, 1157 times, or 1157 times, were written about leaving in Estonia in 2021. 99 of them were for immediate execution and 1058 were for voluntary departure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U388	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U389	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see that this amendment to the bill also includes the identification of the detention and departure obligations of foreigners. This means that these persons will be detained. In the current situation, there is a very large number of people arriving on the Ukrainian side, with refugees among whom I am absolutely convinced, there are also those to whom this refugee status may not apply. My question concerns the extent to which we are able, let us say, to apprehend these individuals in case of doubt. I have heard it said that Estonia intends to receive up to 50,000 refugees from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U390	Thank you for your question. When we talk about Ukrainians, Ukrainians can now enter the European Union on the basis of visa liberalisation. We cannot in any way place an equal sign of how the Ukrainians are currently moving around the European Union. Indeed, as a turnover phrase, it is said that war refugees have emerged, and we understand that these people are fleeing from war. But once again: in the European Union, Ukrainians can move visa-free, 90 days can be visa-free in the European Union and not only do they own biometric passports, but this has also been extended to those who do not have biometric passports. So since the movement takes place on the basis of a visa waiver, this question cannot be answered at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U391	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U392	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! We can read from the explanatory memorandum that the draft has been sent to the International Organisation for Migration and the Estonian Red Cross for publication of the opinion. As we know, there are other organisations that may come into contact with this type of question. Where did the specific choice of the two organisations come from and it was not discussed more widely, whether or not the Estonian Refugee Fund or any other organisation [by involving]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U393	Thank you. This is likely to be linked to the fact that this amendment to the law gives more scope for the detention of foreigners. For example, under normal circumstances, the PPA does not have the right to observe such an alien, they can only carry out procedural procedures, in an emergency they can be detained. This law extends the fact that, under normal circumstances, it is possible to hold up to 48 hours in police detention facilities and a foreigner who is suspected. That is probably why such people are also involved in this coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U394	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U395	Thank you! You answered my previous question that it is possible for the Ukrainians to be visa-free for 90 days. But we know what tricks are used by those who want to enter the country illegally. They say the documents are missing, and they also find donors who verbally confirm that this person is from Ukraine, he's Ukrainian, but he's actually from somewhere else. If you consider that it is possible or what is planned is not known about the introduction of some 50,000 Ukrainians, then the situation is that there are definitely people with suspicious backgrounds. So how do you identify them? Then we also need detention places. Where is our ability?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U396	Thank you. Once again, I will, in fact, stick to my previous answer that we are now moving on the basis of visa liberalisation. Yes, the European Union has also implemented a directive on temporary protection. The Estonian Government has also adopted it with its own order and it is in the process of being implemented in Estonia. The question of when this security check can be done is to review the people who have come here. In fact, at the moment when those people who have moved here without a visa come, for example, to seek temporary protection, such checks are indeed being carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U397	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Now is the time to listen to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U398	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 February this year. In addition to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the staff of the Secretariat, Minister Kristian Jaani was invited, as was Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Ele Russak, adviser to the same department. The Minister also presented this draft at the meeting of the Commission. Indeed, it is worth stressing that, without any doubt, this bill will increase the security of countries and better ensure that citizens who do not have the right to be present in our country are not allowed to stay. That's one of those lines for this bill. As the Minister has also pointed out, if alerts were previously only issued for reasons of public policy and national security, then they have now been extended, as well as the entry of the Schengen Information System on grounds of illegal stay. It is also very important that countries do not now have to repeat these entries. If another country has still made a mandatory expulsion injunction, then it will be entered into the Schengen Information System, and if this person has come to Estonia for example, then we will not have to make this decision separately, but in fact there is a sufficient basis. We can use the decree of this other country to expel this person from Estonia as well. Before Mr Põljaas asked what the real state of Estonia was. I am pleased to acknowledge the Ministry of the Interior, because in Estonia this problem is not at all large. Speaking of figures, Ele Russak, who is, I repeat, advisor to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, brought numerical figures and made an overview. About 1000 departure letters are made in Estonia per year. As has been said, most of them, almost 90%, in some years even 94%, are voluntarily executed. 1,000, on the one hand, seems like a lot, but in fact, the vast majority of these 1,000 leave voluntarily. They do not need to be ordered to leave. Nor can it pass that a considerable proportion of these 1000 have been Ukrainians. But it is very important that Estonia has very good cooperation with Ukraine. Ukraine does not make any obstacles, on the contrary, it favours the return of those to Ukraine for whom a letter of departure has been made. Often, some countries, à la Iran and Iraq, are not open to the readmission of citizens who have come here. I do not know that in the European Union only some 14% of the citizens of these countries have been withdrawn by countries. This is a problem, but there is absolutely no problem with Ukraine. Ukraine does not make any obstacle to the return of these people, on the contrary, rather favours it. A hundred are those who have received a mandatory departure injunction in Estonia, who have not voluntarily left these 1000. The order of magnitude is 100, it's a little different, the minister had a more exact number, but the order of magnitude is 100. Among those who have received a mandatory departure injunction are actually the deceased. I think there are five to ten people who don't comply with these exit letters a year, no more. Clearly, there is no problem today. As I said above, this bill will further encourage monitoring of those who cross the border. There is an opportunity to check whether or not they have a legal basis for entering Estonia, as the Schengen Information System contains these data and has additional data on it. So this is definitely going to improve. But it is quite different, indeed, what Mr Pierce asked about in the European Union. This picture isn't good at all. According to Mrs Russaku, the European Union has an amount of 500000 letters of departure. Their execution rate is significantly lower, at 30 to 40%. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that some of the countries that have no right to enter are perhaps on a slightly better footing, so the temptation to stay there is somewhat greater. But there are certainly other reasons why in the European Union this [rate] is significantly lower than in Estonia, it is very high in Estonia. The Commission took procedural decisions. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, on 9 March, the decision was consensual. Secondly, to propose the termination of the first reading, the decision was also consensual. Thirdly, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the commission, the decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U399	Good Thomas, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U400	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-09_U401	Okay. Negotiation time. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to finish the first reading of draft 518. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 March. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a moody day. I wish you a nice evening. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. The sitting is adjourned.
