ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! We're gonna start the 1st of June, Child Welfare Day briefing, and first we're gonna run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U2	22 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 79 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. Dear colleagues, since there are 12 issues that you would like to ask about, I would like to ask you about the next framework for cooperation. We are going to do one more point on each question and one further question. I hope that's okay. Thank you for your kind permission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U3	Let's go! The first questioner is Kalvi Tõud, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is forestry. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U4	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister Kaja! We know that Estonia is a forest people. We know how much the forest gives us power and power and power. I think the Kuldre School kids on that balcony know the power of the Tamme-Laur dammel. I'm sure they know that. We've agreed we'll keep our forest, we'll protect our forest. And this great noble goal [means] very small decisions to strive for and move towards this great goal, so that the Estonian forest is protected. Now a week ago, the Minister for the Environment unexpectedly made us, but, as I understand, you also made such a decision that he promised to chop up 2300 hectares of reconciliation earlier in this year and in the next four years. Postman journalist Ülle Harju did an interview with you on this, and you said it wasn't like a very reasonable thing, and you were pointing your finger at the Minister of the Environment. I'm asking what's happened this week. What else have you done about [information]? Have you proposed to reverse this decision? What have been the steps you have taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U6	Yeah, thanks! First of all, this decision to increase the cutting capacity of the State Forest Management Centre will certainly swim against the current and in no way coincide with such general objectives. As you yourself said very well, the forest is our great asset, and that is what we must keep. The pressure on Estonian forests must decrease and the state forests must start. We have also agreed in the coalition agreement that cutting pressure and cutting volumes should decrease in RMK. The Ministry of the Environment should focus on how to improve the sustainability of our forest management. We should look at what are the bottlenecks that need to be done to keep our forests stable. I also said that the Minister for the Environment made this decision hastily and should have discussed the matter more widely. The problem, however, is that this in itself is a purely legal decision of the Minister for the Environment himself. It's not a government decision, it's a decision of the Minister of the Environment. It is my wish to discuss this issue more widely. We also have a forestry development plan, which has been discussed at length with various groups. This is actually being carried by the Minister for the Environment and [the whole] Ministry, these things should go in line. I also want to talk to the heads of the State Forest Management Centre, just to get the whole picture of the situation and also to hear about the view of the long vision. On the one hand, I understand that we have a very large forest industry and that there are jobs in the forest industry. But the question is what we are doing with wood in the end, so that it is better deserved, so that we can get [more money for this], so that we do not carry out logs, but we deserve wood so that [more money] remains in Estonia and therefore there are more jobs. So the Environment Minister has been given this kind of feedback. It has also been our wish to discuss this at coalition level. It is still a decision contrary to the coalition agreement, which does not match what we have agreed. But, unfortunately, there is no solution right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U7	And now please specify the question, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U8	Thank you. Understandably, Prime Minister Kaja, time is running out. I'm not thinking about your time, I'm thinking about getting the saws started. In this sense, hurry to discuss these issues more seriously with the Minister for the Environment in order to reverse this decision. But my second question comes from a slightly different area. I have been approached by a number of citizens, and we have discussed this [issue] in the group, but we do not have that knowledge. We have heard that there is still a great deal of forest, or not wood, but timber, coming from Russia across the border with Estonia. But no Estonian timber industry has said that it will come to them that it will come to their industry. Have you understood [the matter], or do you know the problem? What about it? Where does this wood come from and who uses it or somehow goes through Estonia? It's a mess. If you could be so good and shed some light on that thing, as far as you can. And if you have any information that carries the AK stamp, maybe you'd be so good to send it to me. I care.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U9	Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, can you help Kalvi out of the Tough mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U10	I'll try. Sanctions were imposed by Europe, and our aim was also that we should have them uniformly imposed precisely because no one would sneak past them. But sanctions are gradually coming into effect. What has happened is that the various operators, knowing that the sanction will take effect, for example, at the end of May or July, have started to obtain the raw materials they need before doing so. In fact, these volumes have increased. I read about it, and I'm gonna find that number. I can't find that number for wood right now, but I remember that maybe it was some kind of 20% increase in wood. No, I'm sorry, I'm down! By May, timber imports have decreased by nearly 20%. Since this sanction on land transport started to apply on 1 May, the volume of wood [introduced] has actually decreased by almost 20% since then compared to the volumes previously held. The wood itself is not subject to a sanction. This transport is sanctioned. So when it comes to companies that have contracts but, for example, Estonian entrepreneurs are carrying, it does not fall under this sanction. This is the material, these are the numbers I have. If other groups of goods are taken, yes, the total volume of goods transport has increased in April, precisely because businesses are stockpiling goods from Belarus and Russia that they will not be able to buy later. But the share of wood has decreased by 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U11	And now for an additional question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U12	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Recently, Dutch politician Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, who has also been Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs, visited Estonia. He reprimanded our timber industry here, especially in the context of pellet production. We know that firewood is in itself a very important component of all climate policy and the green turn. On the other hand, I also recognise that forest management must respect environmental standards and policies. But it was amazing that we had to be taught by a person in his country who, like, did not pay enough attention to this [problem]. In the Netherlands, forest cover is often smaller than in Estonia: in Estonia it is around 1.8 hectares, in the Netherlands it is 0.02 hectares. Nevertheless, there are no more strictly protected forests in the Netherlands. You came from a meeting with your colleagues. Do you really think that we should discuss the use of forests on a pan-European basis? And perhaps each country should, above all, clean up its own home before coming to teach its neighbours how their forests should be managed and why should it be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U14	Thank you. Perhaps for a start, because this is very well suited to answer this question, I am telling you a joke about what happened at the table of the Council of Europe, where there was a dispute over forests. The Prime Minister of a forested country told the Dutch Prime Minister that he knew that there were so few forests in the Netherlands that they knew every forest there and had named each forest separately. In addition, the Dutch Prime Minister replied that no, they have named each tree because they all know them. This joke shows that we have very different situations. Sweden, Finland and Estonia, where really more than 50% of the land is covered with forest, are in a different situation than the Netherlands or the other Netherlands, where there is really little forest. This conflict arises when these countries come to teach how every tree should be preserved and there should not be a forest industry. It's not quite fair, because they're talking about something they don't really have. Yesterday, I took a plane over from there, and since these arguments are up, I thought, listen, you have a lot of fields you could plant in the woods. But these disputes, yes, they are. Now, on the one hand, we have an interest in keeping forests. Forests are big carbon sinks and actually clean the whole living environment. All kinds of wood products are also carbon sinks. And since the goal is also to become carbon neutral, wood has a very clear role to play. But [bad is] if we are to set objectives that are not met. For example, if Estonia's target increases by 400%, even though we already have more than 50% of the land covered with forests, it is simply not possible to plant the forest at 400%. We also have people who live here in Estonia. In this sense, these are major disputes. When we met with Frans Timmermans, it was also noted [and said] that we did not mind that we were making the environment cleaner. We do not mind that there is more forests in Europe as a whole, but all these objectives and steps must be realistic and must take into account that we have a large forest industry where people are working. This is actually part of regional policy: we have regions where the forest industry actually provides a number of jobs. So, yes, your point is very correct. We're in very different positions when it comes to the forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U15	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U16	Let's move on to another subject. Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is the situation in the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Estonia, under your leadership, has once again become one of the European record holders: according to recent data, Estonia's inflation rate is already above 21%. This means that people lose more than EUR 21 for every 100 euros they earn. At the same time, you are calling on people to be thrifty. You said on 19 May, and Ärieht quoted you: "I really want people to think about how to reduce their costs. " Well, then, each one must decide for himself what he saves. In the autumn, Estonia is threatened with unprecedented price increases, predicted by all analysts and said by Eesti Pank. Would you be so good as to say here and now to us and to all [others] who are currently watching and listening to you, to pensioners, large families, minimum wage and average wage recipients, to the unemployed, to the health insurance fund, not to the insured, who are around 65,000, and to continue this list, and specifically mention the savings that these people have left? What's the cost of the savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U19	Thank you. You always like to rip things out of context. My sayings touched energy, just so that people would prepare for [winter]. Unfortunately, energy prices are not going down in any way, but are actually going up because of the energy carriers and the problems we have. And the question is, everybody thinks about how energy can be saved. This is what is very difficult for some people, especially older people and poorer households, where it is simply impossible to achieve this savings in any way. Everything's already been thought through. So it's very complicated. But the second thing I want to correct is that inflation and, unfortunately, the rise in energy prices are not just about Estonia. It's about the whole world. And there are several reasons. The main reason is the war in Ukraine. If, in fact, [think] the energy carriers from which electricity can be produced, then if Europe abandons Russia's fuel, Russian gas, then this means that it must be obtained elsewhere. And now bigger consumers are also thinking about saving their chances. But what does the price come from? This is due to the supply-demand ratio. If demand falls or stays the same, it is possible that prices will come down. What's positive? Looking at the whole world, the positive thing is that energy demand does not grow. And now, if Russia's energy carriers disappear here, they will no longer be bought by Europe, then Russia needs to sell them to someone else. If they sell gas to, for example, China or other countries, if China or other countries that have previously received their energy from elsewhere buy them from Russia, then those who have sold them will remain free and will be able to sell them to other countries. But yes, inflation is a cause for great concern; it concerns many people. What have we done? We have increased the income support for the poorest households by 33% and the allowance for a single-living pensioner by 75%, or EUR 200. It will apply from October. We have exempted the average pension from income tax, which also leaves more money for pensioners. And in any case, we have to look into the next winter, how we can help people so that we can all survive this difficult time together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U20	Now, please specify the question, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U21	Thank you. I would argue, however, that the context was still very correct. After all, the rise in energy prices brings about all the remaining price increases, and from there all the processes that have to be triggered will be triggered. You tried to shift responsibility away from yourself again, talking about inflation, said that inflation is affecting the whole world. Oh, great! You brought about the war. Oh, great! But let's look at reality! How has it happened that in a situation where the average inflation rate in the euro area is 7.4%, it is 20% in Estonia and has recently risen to 21%? Still, you should look in the mirror a little while while you're looking at these numbers. It's not quite like there's inflation everywhere in the world. I was just talking about numbers. I would still ask what your plan for controlling inflation is. Your position has so far been that nothing needs to be done. Are you sticking to your position? If we look at what others are doing, we can see that Germany is lowering excise duties on fuel, Latvia is decoupling the bio-component from the fuels and the price is falling, many other European countries have come to the aid of their people to help cope with inflation and price increases, especially for energy carriers and food and essential goods. But you're, like, still numb about it. Why are you doing this? Why don't you care? Why don't you notice? Why are you so cold and reckless? In fact, the state is as rich as its poorest citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U23	Thank you. First of all, if you take hold of this last one, 2.2% of people live in absolute poverty in Estonia. When it comes to ten years ago, this figure has fallen from 17% to 2.2%, which shows that in fact, we have [less] people in absolute poverty, we can all do better. But, as I said, these price increases are really very worrying. Now, [comes] to your question of why there are higher price increases in Estonia than in the euro area on average, there is an explanation that, first of all, yes, energy prices are driving up prices. Energy prices in Estonia make up a relatively larger part of people's shopping basket than in other countries. Compared, for example, to Germany, the importance of these expenditures in the budget of one family is relatively lower. Secondly, in larger countries fixed-price electricity packages are generally used. This means that prices do not fluctuate. But we have just the fact that a significant proportion of people are buying stock-market electricity packages, and that gave inflation an additional boost. But our electricity prices have historically been nearly 40% cheaper than the average in Europe, for quite a long time. And now that stock market prices were rising, it had a very clear effect on the whole price increase. This [effect] reached the electricity bills and beyond. Thirdly, the Estonian economy has recovered very quickly from the pandemic crisis compared to other European economies. This is precisely the service of the Estonian Government, because we kept society open and all companies could function. Most businesses, most sectors of the economy, with the exception of tourism, saw a huge increase because society was open and everyone could work. This, of course, has already created additional price pressures on different services, precisely because there was more demand than there was supply. And the wage increase that took place also meant additional pressure which has not been the same in other European countries. Fourthly, Eesti Pank's analysis says that the fact that you broke the pension system and the money from the second pension pillar came to the market created even more inflation. I repeat: inflation means that you have too much money and too little goods and services. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are the reasons why inflation in Estonia is higher than in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U24	Now, one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Well, all that comes out of your mouth is sound and fancy slogans: we do or we did. With your salary of over EUR 7000, you are unlikely to understand absolutely, and this is very natural for ordinary people, for those who receive a minimum wage of EUR 654. This means that net salary, the amount available is EUR 604. You say that people need to prepare to think for themselves how to reduce their costs. Please be good: if the price of fuel is high, if the price of electricity is high, if the price of firewood is high, then where should they reduce costs? Please give instructions to the people on what money or where they should start saving their expenses! Explain it!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U27	Of course, those people whose incomes are very low cannot look for more austerity places. It's just not possible. As I have said, these families have a very high proportion of so-called forced expenditure. That's right: you can't afford to pay for energy, and you need food for food. All these are expenses that need to be incurred. But what I'm saying is that there are a number of people, including you, who can think about how to reduce their energy consumption. If you do, your neighbor does, we do, the demand for energy will decrease. And if demand falls and supply stays the same, then prices will come down because there will be more on the market. A lot of people can think about that. Really, poorer families who don't have this room don't get it. I do not understand why you are generally opposed to energy saving. Those who can think through how to do so could still do so. But once again: indeed, we have increased the income support for poorer households by 33% to help those most in need. And we need to see how we can help these people cope with the costs. At the same time, we are also working at European level on how to decouple electricity prices from the price of gas, because the price of gas leads to higher electricity prices in the pool: it determines the price of all energy sources, although renewable sources are cheaper. We are working to see if it is possible to buy gas together in order to trade this price down. All these big issues we are dealing with at government level, we can do that. So that's what we're trying to do to get these costs under control. I say again: inflation in Estonia really is high because Estonian families have a much higher share of energy costs in the whole portfolio than in other countries. And by the way, we are also very affected by taxes on electricity prices in the sense that taxes have been low in electricity prices, and therefore the volatility of electricity prices without taxes affects people's real expenses most. When the price fluctuates, it automatically passes on to the person. The tax rate is very low there. So these are the worries we're dealing with. And, of course, those who really need help must be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U28	Thank you. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Now there was a situation where I imagined I could ask and the minister should answer, but the minister is going to ask me questions again. I would like to clarify whether anything has changed in the meantime. Has Question Time format changed? Is it not the case that the ambassador asks and the ministers answer? Has it changed now that the minister is asking the ambassadors instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U30	Thank you. The format of the Question Time is that a member of the Riigikogu asks and the member of the Government answers. If there are rhetorical questions in the answer, that is the case. But once again, I do not see the need to intervene in this substantive discussion at the moment. But you are right: a member of the Riigikogu asks and a member of the government answers, this is the format of Question Time. Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U31	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds to this and the subject is once again forestry policy. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! If there's ever a chance to go on a forest trip with Mr. Sut and Savisaar, I suggest you not do that. I feel like I'm lost without a hike, it could easily happen in the woods. But my question is that, as a last decision, Mr Mölder made this very important decision, without coordinating with RMK, that cutting volumes must be reduced and the area must be brought together. In the meantime, the Minister of Enterprise has come up with an initiative and has proposed to temporarily increase cutting volumes in order to alleviate the expected shortage of raw materials by Estonian industries. On that point, I understand that Mr Savisaar, as Minister of the Environment, took the bull by the horns and did it. Now we are in a situation where this goes against coalition policy in particular, the coalition agreement. But as a Member of Parliament, I would, and I think very many others would like to understand our forestry policy. After all, we have an additional forestry development plan. Has this been discussed in the government since? How could such things ever happen? We should finally be able to discuss Estonia's forestry policy with the people here, with the representative of the people, and have the cutting volumes established through the forestry development plan, but in the meantime, there will be such an adventure that error is impossible. How are these things, and is there some kind of leadership in this process? If so, I'd like to understand a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U33	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U34	Thank you. The decision to increase the cutting capacity of the State Forest Management Centre swims against the current and does not fit into the larger picture we have had in forestry. Our position has been that cutting pressure on Estonian forests must decrease and it is precisely the State Forest Management Centre that must start. So I am of the opinion that the Minister for the Environment should not have made this decision in haste, without further discussion. Indeed, as you rightly point out, discussions on the forestry development plan are under way and a Strategic Environmental Assessment report has been prepared. It is currently circulating for positions in the relevant bodies and, when it is completed, the draft development plan will be completed, followed by a public presentation and a public consultation, which should take place in August. The proposals will then be analysed and, if necessary, the environmental impact assessment report and the draft development plan will be completed. This should be in September. This report will be further coordinated by the various authorities concerned, which should take place in October, and it will then be verified that all are in line with the requirements. If so, this report can be approved The Riigikogu then discusses this as a representative of the people. So I will answer your question as to whether we have discussed this in the government: we have not discussed it in the government. Yes, purely legal, it is the decision of the Minister for the Environment, it does not need a government decision. However, such a decision with great influence, especially given that it is [flying] the coalition agreement, should be discussed in the coalition and why not also in the wider Riigikogu. Well, this forestry development plan has been a hot potato that has been thrown from one hand to another. On one side, we have forests, the people of Estonia, who highly value the nature of the Estonian forest. On the other hand, there is the forest industry, which provides jobs for a large number of people and, in this sense, is also an important player in regional policy. The purpose of the forestry development plan has been to consider all these important interests and to do so as openly as possible. So that's what you should focus on right now to get a big picture in place and make lower-level decisions on this surface.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U35	Please specify the question, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U36	I would like to move on to the energy field with my second question. Certainly, energy issues have been on the table much more recently than forestry policy issues. But they are linked, and I understand that this connection has also been in communication between the two ministers. Let us look at the decisions that you and the European leaders made yesterday to complete the shut-down of oil and gas from Russia, which is the right decision and inevitable decision. At the same time, it raises the need for local fuels on the table, as September will soon be at the door, the heating period is about to begin. We also know that our northern neighbours have been very strongly dependent on Russian wood resources. And we also know that the forest peace has left a sort of trail. Forest peace is not bad, but it has some effects in the context of stockpiling. Do you have a picture in front of you, or does the government have a picture of our biomass when we talk about chipping wood, the possibility of using it, perhaps linked to other resources, such as peat? What's the status quo? In fact, the wood pellets used in September should be stocked today and we should have it in stock to be used as local fuel in local boiler houses that [serve] district heating networks. Is that enough capacity? Even if there are still wood resources coming in today, and data from the Tax and Customs Board show that there will be wood resources coming in from Russia and Belarus, it will probably not be five months from now. We should all be interested, but I understand that this decision has something to do with forestry policy. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U37	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U38	Thank you. First of all, all those boiler houses that use wood chips are not state-owned. They belong to the private sector or local authorities. In this sense, I can't give you a detailed answer on how much wood they've stocked. But it is true that imports of timber from Russia and Belarus have decreased by 20% in volume. The wood itself is not subject to a sanction, but it is precisely the transport to bring it in. The price of timber is also affected by the whole market situation, which is also directly due to the fact that, as you said, certain energy sources actually fall away. And [they cannot] be automatically replaced by wood chips. Also in boilerhouses where, for example, gas replacement is considered, this can not be done automatically with wood chips, but maybe oil shale oil is the choice if other inputs are to be used. And I know that different entrepreneurs are thinking about it, precisely because prices are so high. As far as firewood is concerned, people will be busy storing firewood for the next winter. And the combined effect of these factors is that everything that concerns this Russian war, which concerns sanctions and, in fact, the situation on the energy market in general, brings up prices. And it is likely that the combined effect of these factors will still increase in the near future. Increasing the volume of felling may have some effect on this increase. There are also a number of reasons for the rise in the price of firewood. Firstly, as you said, the increase in the cost of fossil fuels and electricity, secondly, the reduction in the supply of firewood, including wood chips, for local energy producers in the middle of the heating season, thirdly, the suspension of cuttings during the spring summer period, which reduces the supply of wood, as well as the increase in demand for wood in the Baltic Sea countries and, as you have pointed out, also in the Nordic countries. There is indeed an increase in demand for wood, which means that new sources of raw materials are being sought as an alternative to Russian and Belarusian timber. It's all affecting this whole situation. And there's also a gradual increase in nature conservation restrictions, so I'm talking about the whole area. So these factors are many in themselves, and of course all of this must be borne in mind. There's nothing very rosy here for the next winter. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U39	And now, please, one more question, René Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will pick up where Mr Metsoja started first. When I read the message of your party partner, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Sut, published in March, he proposed to the Ministry of the Environment to temporarily increase the cutting volume to alleviate the precarious situation in the market regarding raw materials resulting from Russia's war against Ukraine and the accompanying sanctions, in order to help Estonian industrial companies. If I have now heard your answer that the government has not really discussed it, I wonder if either minister has put the debate on this topic in the order of discussion on the topics of the Cabinet. In this case, however, there is a situation where the Minister for Enterprise seems to have proposed [increasing] the volume of felling, and it can be assumed that he wanted to gain positive points from the industry. And now, when the Minister of the Environment, looking at the people, came back, made a hugely unpopular decision, we're punishing him with sticks. But in fact, both are members of your government. And since the Minister for Enterprise has proposed this, it is as if he would expect that there has been a debate before a decision was made to accept it, or at least that [the question] has been put on hold for the topics of the cabinet. Then both ministers will come to discuss it in the government office as a whole in order to negotiate this process, not so that we will only punish one minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U41	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U42	The Minister of Enterprise, as his name suggests, stands for entrepreneurship. In this sense, it is logical that it will also make such proposals when it meets economic operators. But the Minister of the Environment, as you know, after having held this office, stands and should also stand for environmental protection and conservation. Everyone has a role to play in the government. But I don't know if I can answer that right now if we have this subject in the waiting box. As such, we have not discussed this in the government. Indeed, it is legally the decision of one of the ministers, it is the decision of the Minister of the Environment. Our request has been to discuss it more widely. When the idea of this proposal arose in the Coalition Council, we said that we still needed to discuss what would happen with it. But it is that, in itself, purely legal, this can be decided by one minister. And since this minister has made this decision, he is, of course, responsible for this decision, even if ministers have different opinions in the government. And it is clear that there are different opinions. In the case of decisions that require government approval, different views come out. However, in this case, yes, it is a unilateral decision of the Minister for the Environment. In my opinion, the forestry development plan, which you yourself know, has led the same debate in the Ministry, a very hard nut and concerns a wide range of interests, public interests as well as private interests. It must therefore be discussed very widely in order to obtain the broadest possible consensus or compromise in society. Of course, not all interests can be supported by one to one. On the one hand, there are conservation interests so that we have forests, on the other hand, there are the interests of entrepreneurs. All of this should be considered in the framework of the forestry development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U44	Let us move on to the fourth question, which is asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, and which is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The topic is the recommendations of Eesti Pank. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! Yesterday there was a very thorough and good overview from the Governor of Eesti Pank. In this review [in accordance with] and also in the material provided, it is stated that Eesti Pank's task is to advise the government. Its direct task is to publish its work results and opinions. Some advice is evidently taken by the government when it comes to billing, and some advice is not. It is not mandatory to listen to these advices, but at least you should know them. My question concerns the draft from the government, according to which [reimbursement of home loans] will also be taken into account in the calculation of income support, allowing the repayment of loans within six months of the year even in a situation where the person [other] would not be able to do so. The question is not that the Social Democrats are or specifically I am opposed to it. For a person, home is very important, and homelessness is a tragedy. However, according to this bank review, there is a risk that this bill has already become a law, that this income support measure cannot be applied in the same way as the rent subsidy, because the loan acquires assets. Next, [it is said] that this leads to a deterioration in the availability of real estate, in particular for first-home buyers. In addition, the Bank will draw attention to the basis on which this support can be implemented if the Bank does not offer a moratorium. It is stated that all [solutions] offered by the bank are made. These people are gonna get in pretty bad shape. If banks know that the state commits people in distress to pay their loans through income support within six months, then the question is simply what it means to others. And this is the bank's recommendation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U46	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U47	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! Really, this debate yesterday was very good. I was not able to follow directly what happened in this Chamber, but I also received a summary from the discussion later. I think that the Governor of Eesti Pank had a number of very important points of attention yesterday, including that I myself have been punished here in front of Parliament, not from your group, but from some other Members. This has been for the fact that I have considered it important to return to a more responsible monetary policy in the perspective of the future and for us not to overdo borrowing. The Governor of Eesti Pank emphasised yesterday that it has indeed, in the past, been reproached, as if the attitude that income and expenses must be balanced and the conservative mind must be maintained when taking loans is somehow time and time, then it is actually right to say today that it is time and time that the opposite attitude is that it is like taking a loan and using it to finance running costs cheaply and endlessly. This was certainly an important observation by Eesti Pank yesterday. Now the income support measure that you dealt with in your question. Obviously, one more time it needs to be clarified that this is an amendment proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and, as a result, the state will certainly not pay any loan payments. Nor does this situation arise after the legislative amendment adopted by this Parliament. Income support is still intended to provide temporary relief for people in distress. Following this change, the State does not undertake to pay anyone's loan in any way. It's not there. The person is still responsible for his own loan. However, there is a real possibility for people who would otherwise be in trouble and who would really end up in a situation where they lose their housing, when setting income support, to include loan payments among [unparalleled expenses]. Not only will the loan payments be paid, but also the bank payments that a person has to make will be taken into account when calculating the income support and the minimum amount to be received. And it is certainly a temporary measure aimed at avoiding situations where people who have previously behaved very responsibly temporarily for certain reasons. It's limited to six months. Six months because during that time, it is probably possible for a person, perhaps a social worker's counsel, to return to a life where he can cope with his problems. But, yes, once again, bank payments will not be paid in any way by the State following a change in the income support rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U48	And now for a more specific question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U49	Thank you very much. I think that paying income support and which costs are taken into account and under which new law, I probably know better than you, but I do not rule out that you have made these things clear to yourself. Yeah, the state's not gonna pay the loan, but he's gonna pay for the part of the loan he took. When speaking about income support, the Prime Minister also illustrates that the income support limit was raised. Yeah, raised, July 1st. But it was already known in the autumn that [growing] energy costs and rising all other things. In fact, this border should have been raised from 1 January. It wasn't done. The limit is higher from 1 July. Yeah, it's kind of a relief. The Prime Minister gives an example that the average pension is tax-free, but does not say that it is from 1 January 2023. Continuing: I understand from your reply that Eesti Pank was wrong to make its assessment, because it was all meant differently. Eesti Pank, looking at the draft law, made this assessment. I read specifically what Eesti Pank has said. And once again, I think people need to be helped when they get into trouble when there's a danger of losing their homes. But this measure, which is now, is certainly not the most appropriate measure to help. The measures proposed by the Social Democratic Party concern the creation of rental spaces, as some people will never get to the bank lending them at all. As stated in this opinion, this further aggravates the situation of first-home buyers. I guess you don't know how to answer me any more just because we're holding different positions. I will read the opinion of Eesti Pank and ask questions based on it; you will talk about the income support measure. I know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U50	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U51	Thank you. Good questioner, I do not doubt for a moment that you know this in detail and very well, but maybe all those who are watching the hearing, including your colleagues who are in this Chamber now, may not know in just as detailed detail. I therefore made it clear once again that no one would have a misleading view that bank payments would be paid. It really isn't. I would not say that Eesti Pank was wrong in its opinion. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Social Affairs, who initiated this change, actually considered various proposals after obtaining the opinion of Eesti Pank. For example, one observation made by Eesti Pank was that maybe only the calculation of the interest share should be limited, not the calculation of the bank's payment. The Ministry of Social Affairs, I know, assessed this possible change and found that if only interest was taken into account, there would be a situation in which those who have taken a very fresh home loan and whose interest payments are significantly higher would have a significant advantage. Therefore, they did not consider this part of Eesti Pank's opinion to be justified. But really, it is a change that aims to prevent and mitigate the risks that otherwise people may face if they find themselves in difficult situations, to mitigate or reduce the effects that Eesti Pank also refers to. And it is limited in time to six months: within six months, you can also count on loan payments to determine income support. The truth is that, as with any law, this amendment needs to be analysed after a few years and to see if it has worked properly. A mid-term evaluation has to be carried out and, if necessary, changes have to be made. I think that, now that the number of recipients of income support has actually increased quite rapidly in recent months, and obviously there are times when people are complicated, it is good that this relief comes. In a few years' time it will be right to carry out the mid-term review, and then you can also consider the changes that you referred to and which Eesti Pank has drawn attention to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U52	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U53	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Alar Laneman, member of the Riigikogu, meets the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani and the topic is population protection. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The issue of the protection of the population has constantly been the focus of more or less attention in connection with the war in Ukraine. It is understandable that the subject concerns people's life and health at the most difficult moment when it comes. That's what my question is about. We know that assessments of the state of affairs are always made on the basis of results, on the basis of how the results meet the objectives set or on the basis of the needs created by the situation. With regard to the protection of the population, we generally know what our situation is. We still do not have clear objectives in very practical [questions]. We have an explanation for why it's like this. But if we take it specifically, does every Estonian person know when and how many places for shelter in his city, for example, will there be and will he have this place? Where does he get food if there's a supply disturbance, and where does he get water? It must be on a personal level [know], every person, Juhan Lasnamäe or Nõmmel, Peeter Pärnus Raeküla must know where this thing is. A lot has been done, I have to say. The activities of the Ministry of the Interior have been seen, for example, in Pärnu. And things are very good at communicating. But there was an interview with the Head of the Rescue Board at Postimees, which was very strange. The interview was a good one, but some strange things: the task of the state is to show danger, talk about problems and give advice, but then the responsibility of the person begins. Is that really the State Department's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U55	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good member of the Riigikogu, good question! The protection of the population is really very important, it has always been important. I also say that there have always been objectives in the area of protection of the population, so far there have simply been challenges in this area of permanent funding. Today, we have made very good decisions in the government to take real action in the protection of the population, and this has been very positive. I would add here, as a reply, that when we talk about population protection, this year's additional budget has 17 million for the Rescue Board and fundamental decisions for the future have been made in 34 million, which is purely linked to the protection of the population. When we talk about the role of the savior, we are about to get to the interview you referred to, when we talk about the priorities that we now want to do very quickly and at a very good pace in the near future, these are the priorities. First of all, the Rescue Board opened a call for applications where local authorities can apply for funds to raise their crisis readiness, there are more than 2 million euros there, and finally there are people ready for crisis. This people's willingness to react to the crisis is also somewhat linked to the [problem] you referred to. The Director General of the Rescue Board has certainly done very well in the position of top executive. The number of casualties in the fires was very high ten years ago, and now the Rescue Board has reached a situation where we are already at Nordic level in ten years. This is very good in itself, although, of course, every person who died is too much. We have reached a level where, in every corner of Estonia, a rescue vehicle reaches the aid of a person in an average of eight minutes. So these have been very good developments. Now, man's responsibility. First of all, of course, the state has to do a great deal to do this, and there is also a national level, so that the person is more aware, informed, aware of the dangers he faces and how to be prepared. The responsibility is what a person does, conscious of what possible dangers may be, since the wind sometimes blows too hard or may drown water somewhere, electricity may disappear. If a person is aware of these dangers, he really has the responsibility to take steps to be better prepared to deal with certain crises. Our internal security development plan, which has been adopted and also passed through this Riigikogu, is actually the main postulate that security begins with each person himself. It is not so much a question of responsibility, but once again: if a person is aware of the dangers, then indeed he must also take steps to prevent them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U57	And now for a more specific question, Alar Lanemann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U58	Thank you for that answer. I was just surprised by this interview. It didn't match the image we've seen with the Rescue Board and the Director-General. That's why I'm here asking. There was another bad passage. Quote two: "One side was indeed asked after February 24 that where my shelter or other things were. On the other hand, we may ask, " Where are your own things? ' " It's a question of confrontation. Who are these us and you? After all, the population is both an employer and a ward for the Rescue Board at the same time. It seems to me that these things have gone a little miserably here. But I'd like to ask you a question. I have a suspicious feeling you don't share that kind of attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U59	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U60	Thank you. I guess the answer to that question coincides with the answer to the previous question. Indeed, people also have a role to play in crisis preparedness. Let's take an existing "Get ready!" information material put together by the Women's Home Guard and which can also be downloaded as an app. In fact, there's a lot of cover-up in there. I want to get to the point that, if people are aware today of the potential dangers, all of us will certainly know what were and will continue to be the threats in Ukraine, with which ordinary people, as well as rescuers, have been exposed, then again, once again, if you look at this "Be ready!" an application, then everyone can find a lot of information on how to be better prepared, for example, to hide. When we talk about shadowing now, it really is very high on priorities. With these shadows we led the Rescue Board, which is the leading authority in the protection of the population, [we have dealt]. By the end of the first semester of this year, the first public shelters in four major cities, including Pärnu, must be known to people. They must be marked, each person must know where the public shelter is and is state-owned or, for example, a shelter owned by a local government. So those first four big cities are definitely gonna be there. But once again: indeed, people can do a great deal themselves if they have awareness. Teaching the population, raising awareness, of course, will be on the government's side. It has to be done, it has to be invested a lot more. The Rescue Board has thus received very specific budgetary resources for the development and dissemination of even better information material. This will be all done during this year, including, for example, guidance for cooperatives on how to make a shelter from this basement in an apartment building built 30, 40 or 50 years ago, where there is a full cellar. Such guidance from the Rescue Board will be ready by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U61	And now, please, an additional question, Leo Kunnas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue to discuss how this issue of shelters can be resolved. It is clear that the state is not going to build shelters for people. That would be impossible, and they don't do it anywhere. Maybe only in those public buildings we're building new ones, we should make shelters. So how do you actually solve this problem? We could use the example of Finland, where the law imposes an obligation on real estate developers that if the surface is over 1,100 square metres, a shelter must be built in this building. But this topic is actually in the realm of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it is the subject of the law of planning and construction. I've talked to your Deputy Secretary Viola Murd about this, and she's about to pick it up. Perhaps you should contribute a little so that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can have these necessary amendments to the law, so that people can be obliged to build shelters in the future, especially real estate developers. There is, in fact, no very reasonable solution to this in any other way. And I also see here that MKM has simply not taken the decisive initiative. Where there are such good people as Viola Murd, who leads the field, something is happening. But where they don't exist, there's a little bit of passiveity. The Prime Minister here can also make sure that everyone does their part. How do you feel about pushing them a little bit, so to speak, positively?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U63	Thank you. I like to give very positive impetus, and the Ministry of the Interior and its administration have really done a great deal to ensure that we have a well-developed population protection and that institutions are also prepared to react very well, to manage crises. We have seen that the authorities of the Ministry of the Interior have been very well involved in managing various crises. The last example is the emergency situation linked to the mass migration of refugees. Now this example of Finland. Indeed, I also like this example of Finland. It is very specifically regulated where and which shelters need to be, up to the point that, if there is no shelter in the apartment building, the owner of the building must ensure the information where the closest shelter or shelter is and the contract states that the residents of the building can, for example, go to a shelter or shelter 50 metres away. The owner of the house must indeed have concluded such a contract. The Finns have had time to implement it [the system], to implement it for 60 to 70 years, and indeed have had a slightly different view of all of this from our good colleagues in Finland, [the whole] of our brothers. In Estonia, we have today taken the direction, based on experts' opinion, that we in Estonia rather apply shelters that are slightly different from shelters. As far as the future is concerned, today we can actively discuss whether to impose specific requirements as different construction requirements, that from the number of x apartments there should be [more orderly] shelters, or then say that [may also be] a hiding place. Every basement is definitely not a shelter yet, but every basement maybe a hiding place. This is certainly a topic that needs to be discussed at expert level. We also have to take into account that this will, of course, be paid by the consumer at the end of the day, right, but security costs quite a lot, and that is how it works. Once again, the name, of course, will finally pay for it all. This also means that the price of real estate is likely to increase. But once again, in saving human lives, you shouldn't talk about money and prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U64	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U65	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is sanctions and the energy crisis. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! As of today, we know that Estonia can produce as much electricity as Estonia consumes in the last two months. If you wish to conclude an electricity contract today, the price of a short-term contract is 260 [EUR] megawatt-hour and 200 [EUR] at night. When a three-year contract is made, recommended and adopted by the Riigikogu, the day falls from 260 to 200 euros. It's a little funny. Estonia can produce. Now we'll see what this price is going to be. EUR 50 million each month from the quota for the sale of CO2. In the first quarter, 150 million were taken from people's pockets. The other half is the congestion charge which, thanks to Elering, who built the third line between Latvia and Estonia, has been removed from the pockets of over 100 million people in the last nine months. There's no way they're gonna give that money back to us. It's a job we didn't do. That Latvia and Lithuania cannot produce, we know. Now electricity from Russia is also coming to an end, and there will be no more electricity from Finland. Now, the second point is, I just wanted to bring you this side as information that you're talking about gas and everything else. Estonia does not produce electricity with gas; this is a question for Latvia and Lithuania during peak loads. But there's only one thing I'm worried about. Two weeks ago, the situation was that Elering's leader said that he wouldn't be ready by autumn between the LNG terminal and the Balticconnector. Can you tell me if anything's changed in the past two weeks? Do you have the courage or the knowledge of what date this tube will be ready in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U67	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U68	Thank you. First of all, with CO2 money, we provided energy subsidies to people in the autumn and winter. Then we had very extensive subsidies compared to other countries. Seven months of subsidies were in force and we had gas, central heating and electricity. There were both targeted measures and measures for all. This money was actually given back to people so that they could cope with these greatly increased prices during this difficult, cold winter period. It is also true what you say that when we talk about electricity, electricity prices [are very high]. If you compare them now in different price areas, then [it is not only behind them] that Russia stopped supplying Finland, which was about 1000 megawatts, which is outside our market. But not all reactors work at the Olkiluoto nuclear power plant, there's no electricity coming from it, and some of the other stations are still in maintenance. It has driven this price [highly]. Now what you said about fixed [price] contracts. A couple of weeks ago, I called all the electricity dealers back to the table. When we last met in November or December, it was said that if the Riigikogu passed the law that prices could be fixed for a longer period of time, they would be able to come at a price of just less than 20.30 euros per megawatt-hour. That was the promise that was there. Now I've called them back to the table again, so why are these fixed prices so high? Their answer was that it was before the war began. Now, with regard to this war, there is so much uncertainty about the future that these prices can actually get high and that is why they fix these prices so high. It's very complicated. I asked if we could give people a suggestion to fix prices if prices could come down. And when prices are fixed, people do not follow consumption [so much] and it actually affects the demand-supply relationship. If you have a fixed price, you may not actually save or think that you do even if others do not. Sorry about the long introduction! In terms of LNG, we keep our hand on the pulse all the time. Last week, I think it was last week, when he got asked about it again. Everyone confirms that a world record is being made to get these things ready in time. It should be that both Elering and the private sector will be ready, so in the coming winter we will have this LNG capability. If it isn't in November, it's December, but for that we'll have a gas supply of 1 terawatt-hour to get that time out if the LNG terminal is completed later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U69	Now, please specify the question, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U70	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would certainly like you to at least get a written paper from Elering to the government that this connecting pipe will be ready by November. There's nothing about someone promising. I don't trust you. I have to admit it. Because of the increase in electricity prices, Elering's activity is half as expensive as it is. I am afraid that he also hoped that Russian gas would come to us through Finland, and then again he could get an overload fee and earn from it. But as we know, the congestion charge will not reach the government budget in any way, but will remain the owner of the core network. But I have another question. You walk around Europe and you very seriously state that oil and all such things should be abandoned. But how do you comment on the fact that on May 29, Irus was standing with a letter "Pусский миp Says Postimees, May 31st: "The oil transportation of Gazprom's subsidiary to Estonia takes place on full tours. Gazprom's ship bunkered fuel almost every day. The volumes have been increasing lately." I understand that 9 July could be the date of the company's representative [confirms] that they will no longer do so. Are we not walking according to our actions, but merely saying that we are setting the limit somewhere? Are you aware of this? Is something happening behind our backs, or is it what it's supposed to be? After all, today the situation has come to the point that the Estonian car is carrying pitch, one company is bringing pitch. We now have asphalt prices on the ceiling, as the pitch of carriers from other countries does not come from Russia. But the pitch comes from Russia. And now there is just the price [in the ceiling] because only Estonian cars are carrying and it is in the hands of one company.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U72	Thank you. First of all, with regard to the construction of this LNG terminal, I must admit that there is scepticism on both sides: both the private sector in terms of Elering's failure and Elering's failure to complete the private sector. There was also a proposal at government level that if both have this suspicion and both have the costs in this respect, why not make it symmetrical that if one fails to complete, he would pay the other a fine, and if the other fails to complete it, he would pay the first fine. In this way, this concern or fear could be removed and these risks mitigated. With regard to gas and Russian oil sanctions, firstly, oil sanctions were agreed yesterday. Until then, oil was not subject to a sanction, and if you look into the sanction package there, there will be a pretty long transitional period when it will apply. And as far as [all of this] is concerned, in fact, there are still things being mobilised from Russia, precisely because sanctions will take effect after a certain period of time. Before that, the so-called storage facilities will be packed. This does not go against what has been legally agreed, but it might be a question for these entrepreneurs whether it is morally actually right to feed this war machine so that we simply give it money more quickly. Now, as far as these ships are concerned, once again, this group of goods has still not been subject to a sanction. Ships flying the flag of Russia have been sanctioned. But the problem is that these ships are not under the Russian flag, they are under the flag of Liberia and other countries, and then they do not go under the sanction. That is why we have been saying that, if there is a desire to sanction oil and other energy carriers, they must be clearly sanctioned, because otherwise there are possibilities to move around [the restrictions]. And that agreement on oil was made yesterday. There are also quite a few exceptions that go down there, precisely in order for some countries to be unable to make use of alternatives, there is no corresponding infrastructure. They were given time to build this infrastructure and then to switch. But as far as gas is concerned, the gas is not subject to a sanction. But Russia itself is turning countries off: from yesterday, the Netherlands and Denmark will not get more gas from Russia, because Russia has decided so. Before that, Finland, Poland and Bulgaria have already been deprived of gas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U73	Procedural question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U74	I just want to say to the Prime Minister that I told him that there is a "Pусский миp" on the wagons. Such wagons should not come to Estonia. If we have legalized that certain things [are not spoken] so that there can be no Georgi tape, then there should also be no wagons with the letter "Pусский миp." But in the Iru terminal, these cars are inside. The question is, how have they crossed the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U75	Thank you. Please ask an additional question, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U76	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Indeed, I, too, would have liked to comment on the fact that it is simply awkward that we have a letter written on the inside of the pedestrians of Pусский миp. Maybe we could tie Georgi's tape somewhere else. But the question really is about energy, about potential energy crises or crises. We know that we have now supported our people in the last heating season in terms of electricity, gas and district heating [for payment], when this was a real challenge for them. And there's also a question about why these people have been excluded or excluded from the woods. Today, there is a situation where timber prices have also risen more than twice, and logwood, where [in the game] is actually a big input in the form of labour, has gone triple. Are there any thoughts by autumn that people [using] could fit into the list? And the other part of the question actually also concerns wood. If you are now dealing with the management of state forests and the volume of logging, then perhaps it would still be analysed how much firewood, energy wood, comes from state forests, and what role does it play? Finns have called on their forest owners to manage their forests. Could the Government of the Republic of Estonia also make such an appeal that it should manage its forests and thus bring more energy wood to the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U77	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U78	First of all, the price of the timber has gone up. There are several reasons for this. People are also storing firewood for the next season. But there are many different reasons. Firstly, the increase in the price of fossil fuels and electricity in general, secondly, the decrease in the supply of firewood and thirdly, the suspension of cuttings, which also reduces these stocks. Similarly, the increase in demand for timber in the Baltic Sea countries, in addition to the increase in the price of logging, is driving up the price as well as the gradual increase in nature conservation restrictions, not only here but throughout Europe. Now, as far as firewood is concerned, when you look into these numbers, the problem is that it goes mostly to make pellets. And now, if you look at why these pellets are a problem, it's a multifaceted matter. When we talk about pure energy, first of all, this wood is going out of Estonia and, second of all, it is a concern that because it is being consumed as renewable energy where it goes in Denmark and the Netherlands, it is going to be written there in order to achieve the renewable energy targets, even though it is our wood. So there are actually a number of concerns in addition to the fact that we ourselves have fewer pellets and therefore our own prices are going up. But so far, it has been economically viable. Forest management is certainly a key word and the Ministry of the Environment should pay very much attention to the sustainability of forest management. It means how we deserve wood, what we do in wood, how we can direct this process. But it still means working with forest owners to ensure that forest owners manage their forest better. It's not always clear cutting, it's more of a cutting requiring precision science, so not all trees are immediately cut off. As far as I've met the forest owners, they're all very interested in the growth of their forests and their forests. There's no way they don't care about the woods. But maybe there's something else you can do to give forest owners a boost to better manage their forest so that we value this wood right here where it grows.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U79	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U80	Let us move on to the seventh question, which is asked by Paul Puustusmaa, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the topic is Estonian-Russian trade relations under the conditions of the Ukrainian war. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Of course, the positive wish that our country does not want to feed the Russian war machine cannot be underestimated. Understood! But wishing and wanting are often not covered, especially in the light of what has already been said here. Especially when we have the wagons running around here with the letter "Pусский миp', the expeditions are giving rise to questions, the oil ships of Gazprom are raging in our waters. At the same time, we also know that we have a state company called the Estonian Railway, whose freight business is operated by a company like Operail. And Opera has a subsidiary, Operail Leasing, who leases out cargo wagons. According to the latest annual report, Operail in Leasing has confirmed that the owners of freight wagons have had 12,000 wagons in circulation, of which 2 000 are operating here in the European Union, but 10,000 allegedly in Russia and Belarus. Does the country have an overview of how much we make on it? Does the state have an overview of what these wagons do? And does the state have an overview of what these wagons are carrying?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U82	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U83	Thank you. If I'd known you were just asking about Operail, I'd have brought those specific materials. We have discussed this in the government office: the activities of Estonian Railways and Operail in the context of the war. Indeed, they have activities in Russia and Belarus. Is this correct in this case, and how do we get out of it? In my opinion, it is certainly not right, morally speaking, for the state to be there. Although the argument is that these wagons are leased and they do not know what is done specifically with these wagons. That's the benefit Opera gets from it. For example, when cars are leased to Finland and Finns use them in Russia, this is how it works. But yes, the Minister of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been given the task of stopping this activity and coming to the office with an action plan on exactly how it works. So, yes, we had a first introduction to this whole situation. Next, it is in the hands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who is also in Opera in the responsibilities of the shareholder and is able to direct and convey more precisely the expectations of the general meeting or the state's owners to these companies. So it's going to work. And what I want to say is that, with these sanctions, if we look at Estonian-Russian trade in general, the first quarter of this year's [in comparison] versus the first quarter of last year's volume has not really changed, it has remained at the same level. Imports have even increased significantly during this period. Why has it been so? The reason is that, as sanctions are gradually coming into force, companies are mobilizing and wanting to take the last one. Is that correct, given that you are adding additional volume to Russia? Well, that's also the question of a moral compass for every company.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U84	Now for a more specific question, Paul Pulpland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I thank you for your answer, but, of course, I hope to learn from you in writing how many of these cars we have sent to Russia and how much we will earn from them. But one more question to be more specific. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Could this mean we're losing these cars, our country is losing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U86	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U87	Yeah, it's a risk. Anyone who carries out business in Russia must take such risks into account. These are political risks. If we think back to a very long time, to 1998, when the transit sector also got a real bang, because so far they had been working towards Russia, it was a political decision by Russia. In fact, a very large number of companies in Estonia learned that this risk should not be taken. But, yes, unfortunately, during Kadri Samson's time, this wagon lease was made to Russia and now this risk must be taken into account in any case. If [in the eyes of] Russia's actions and political situation, [may be expected] to take advantage of it and confiscate easily. They don't have the rule of law, you can't really sue anyone. And I think it's a risk you really shouldn't take.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U88	Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U89	Thank you. Can I hope I get an answer on how many cars there are and what it's gonna cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U90	And now for an additional question, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U91	Thank you. Prime Minister! As a result of previous questions, I have one such suggestion. Should we use the word "lageraise"? The clear cutting will lay the foundation for a new forest, maybe we could use the word "innovation cutting" in the future? Perhaps it would be a more precise term. It's just my [opinion]. But now to the question. Russia is the ninth exporting and fourth importing country in Estonia, taking into account [the volume of trade]. My question is that this actually concerns a lot of jobs, concerns people, also concerns the state budget and taxes. What are the sectors that are most affected by this? When the contracts for the second quarter are over in July, I'll see there's gonna be a pretty big fall. Maybe it's not like that. But which sectors are suffering and what are the opportunities to mitigate these risks in these sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U92	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U93	Thank you. We do not have massive trade with Russia. It's not there. The sectors that are working with Russia are rather what comes from there. Fertilisers, in particular, coming from Belarus, for example, are one of those things that are subject to sanctions, and for those who use fertilisers, that is certainly a problem. They're looking for ways to get these fertilisers from anywhere else. However, it must be borne in mind that the demand for fertilisers and the need for other goods that we are currently purchasing from Russia has not increased in the world. This means that if these goods are subject to sanctions coming from Russia and Belarus, Russia and Belarus are looking for new trade routes, an opportunity to sell their products to other parts of the world. Consequently, those others who are currently buying from somewhere else will be left over. So it can be that they move back to Europe. At the moment, for example, there are very clear alternatives to fertilisers. So, yes, as far as the impact of sanctions is concerned, for example, no trainloads of fertilizer have been brought to Estonia in May. Thus, imports of fertilisers have decreased by 100%, while imports of wood have decreased by 20%. Very few sanctions apply to goods themselves; in fact, sanctions concern transport, it is land transport, it is rail transport and maritime transport. So, as a result, goods in themselves are often not subject to a sanction. As I said to your colleague here earlier, it is the case that people say that you can see that these ships are flying. But the ships are sanctioned, the goods are not. At the same time, fuel is subject to a sanction as a commodity, which means that it must not be used. Fertilisers are also subject to a sanction as a commodity and have an impact on those sectors that use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U94	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U95	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Heiki Hepner, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, and the topic is the activities of Eesti Energia. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U96	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Eesti Energia is a dominant company in the electricity market and the requirements for it are certainly higher than for some small companies. At the same time, the stockholder of the company is a state and, in fact, gives the company even greater responsibility for society. When energy prices increased sharply at the end of last year, including electricity prices, people were advised to start monitoring stock exchange prices more closely in order to consume when prices are cheaper and optimise their costs in this way. The differences in prices can be in dozens of times, so there are really very different prices. Many took note of this counsel and took action in that light. This was achieved in 2017 when remotely readable meters were installed in households. Unfortunately, it has now become clear that the meters have been replaced, but the change of packages that should have been accompanied by it has not been made. This confusion affects some 70,000 households, if you believe in the media. Thus, Eesti Energia has unduly earned millions of euros from people who optimized their electricity consumption in good faith. How do you comment on all this? What kind of signal does that give society? How do such behaviour affect sustainable consumption, and what do you intend to do in the light of this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U97	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U98	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner, thank you for this question. In any case, it is the case that Eesti Energia is subject to higher expectations, which must be able to meet, because it is a state-owned company. This particular, I don't know, let's say that the situation you described, I had a fresh theme with the company's management on Monday when the new board took place. I was also there, and I wondered how this situation could have happened, and perhaps more importantly, the message was that it had to be fixed. Of course you have to fix it! By now, Eesti Energia has publicly apologized to all the customers it has touched. It's a good thing this apology came up, even better than it would have come up a lot faster. But really, once again, the most important thing is to make it right. This situation itself developed because, when the electricity market opened in 2013, indeed, as you referred to in your question, long-range hourly meters had not yet been put into operation in general []. In some places they had also been introduced, but let's just say that this project was not finished, they were not installed in all the places of consumption. And that means that at that time consumers had the opportunity to make stock exchange packages, but they accounted for the average stock market price of day and night. And now, in 2017, when they went over to remotely readable meters, there are a number of clients who changed their contracts, but not all of them. Indeed, there were a great many whose contracts remained unchanged at that time and who were likely to discover that the agreement was unchanged at times when there was a reason to monitor very closely what the stock exchange price was doing and how it fluctuated by hour. Eesti Energia has quickly promised to contact all clients who still have contracts unchanged, and this will be done in order. I hope that this will happen as soon as possible and that this situation will be resolved quickly within a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U99	Now for a more specific question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Indeed, a third of the people responded themselves, but the core of this problem is that the packages that really followed the hourly price of this stock exchange, and then, as you described, the average price, were exactly the same. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has said that such trading practices are prohibited in the European Union and can raise the question of whether a misleading trading technique was used. However, Eesti Energia cannot be blamed because it has stopped selling old packages by now. At the same time, if we believe in the media again and I think that this is probably the case, Eesti Energia will not renew the packages until the end of the year. He says they're doing their best, and now they've reached a level in IT that they can do at least by the end of the year. It seems a little funny: weren't we on the IT level in 2017 so we could have done it? However, the issue in itself is also a very confusing statement on the side of consumer protection. We know that the price of electricity has increased enormously and thus the profit of Eesti Energia has increased very much. And my question is: do you think that Eesti Energia should actually compensate these people for any more money taken? This data is all there, and the computer is where we have now reached as an IT state, just as Eesti Energia says, "Those sums will be calculated in the minutes counted." Maybe it'll take an hour to figure out how to pay everyone back. As a general meeting and a representative of the owner, do you think that Eesti Energia should pay back the money to these people or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U101	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U102	Thank you, good manager. First of all, of course, it cannot be clearly stated that all those customers who did not switch to the new hourly system automatically lost their money. This is not automatically the case. There are certainly those consumers, including those who have lost nothing. Now, as far as resolving this situation is concerned, whether this should happen automatically, I still think it is important that the client, considering this decision, can make his decision that he will be offered the opportunity to switch to the new package. But the decision maker must still be a customer and he must consider whether this is reasonable in view of his particular consumption or whether it would be more reasonable for him to choose another package. Certainly, it must not be automatic for everyone to go without any choice at all. That would be another extreme. And if you stressed that at the end of the year, I'd rather say that the end of this year is absolutely the last bullet. It is already being dealt with, not expected for the last months of the year, and then it is just beginning to get in touch. It's still running, and it's going right now and fast. But indeed, decisions must be made by consumers themselves. How to deal with these customers, those consumers for whom it is clear that this solution was more damaging for them, this must certainly be considered by Eesti Energia. And he must also consider the option you referred to in order to compensate consumers for the difference that has arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U103	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U104	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Anti Poolamets, meets the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is controlling inflation. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U105	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! We have just received a signal that should concern us all, and certainly you too: inflation is already at twenty [%] and we are at the top. On the first questions, I listened to your answers, and I heard that we should use less electricity and so on. It therefore seems that we can still do very little to ensure price stability and suppress inflation. But at the same time Poland, for example, reduced excise duties on fuel, and Germany, according to my information, also reduced excise duties on fuel. Some countries are quite busy taking measures to suppress inflation. I ask once again whether you see monetary policy measures in Europe in a wider picture. If you look at the Baltics, [we can see that] in all the Baltic countries, the situation is quite high. What can we do in the big picture? Perhaps I can clarify the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U106	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U107	Thank you. First of all, you have proposed an increase in public spending of almost EUR 300 million per year. This means that, in fact, just as Seeder from this remote control and the representative of another party, Tanel Kiik, also responded at a government press conference, your proposal is to cover the costs that you want to cover in addition to 300 million, actually by means of tax increases, in order to increase family benefits to a very narrow group. Maybe you should think these things through again. There is no point in talking about lowering taxes at the same time if you want to increase costs in this way. These things don't add up. But I get it, it's definitely populist. It is good that you have given this Polish example. Indeed, Poland reduced the excise duty even below the minimum rate that is allowed in Europe. And what happened? Yes, first the little drink went down: the price of fuel went down for a moment, but today the price of fuel has risen to 30% higher than the time they [excise] reduced. What I'm saying is, the difference is taken away by the vendors. This benefit does not really reach people, but in the very short term it can have an impact. Unfortunately, [these processes] are global, fuel prices are a major source of concern around the world, and everything depends on demand and supply. Inflation is high for various reasons, but fuel and energy prices are one big reason for this. If you look at this key again, Estonia has done very well. The reason why our inflation is so high is also because our economy has grown much more than our neighbouring countries, for example. Estonia's economic growth was 8.3%, while in Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden it was 4.8% and in Finland it was 3.3%. In ten years, Estonia's average gross wage has increased by 84.5%, so in fact, the consumer price index, i.e. prices, inflation has not increased so much. There are different reasons for the fact that it has been very difficult in recent months and for the whole of the last year. I've already answered where it's all come from. If we also look at pure consumption, real consumption has increased by 8% and nominal consumption will also increase by 20%. This does not make sense: if prices go up, consumption should go down, but it does not do so now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U108	Now please specify the question, Anti Half-Amets!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U109	Thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that you praise economic growth. In my opinion, the seed of this growth was put into [soil] by the previous government's economic policy. These effects are not so rapid that there will be consequences in six months [see]. And one measure was precisely the reduction of excise duties, as well as the stimulation of the corona era, when it was the most important moment to do so. On the other hand, you mentioned raising family benefits to a very narrow group, I cannot agree in any way, because families with children are an oppressive majority. It's definitely not a tight crowd. The proposed measure would simply help people to walk along with this record price increase somehow. We will certainly not be able to follow these measures [for price increases], but the aim is to start with more vulnerable ones. But I am still asking about this macroeconomic issue. If you look at the financial situation in Europe as a whole, the picture is problematic everywhere. What advice would you give to the European Central Bank? Money print's been going on for years. Indeed, inflation is high in many countries. But we're in first place. Which strategy should be implemented? In the United States, central banks have tightened their control over inflation. Something has to be done, it can't last forever. We remember how important it was to ensure price stability when we went to the euro area. That was the main message.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U110	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U111	Yeah, that's a good point. Indeed, the root cause of inflation is that you have too much money and too few products or services and that is why prices go up. And indeed, macroeconomically it is said that there are two tools that can be used. One is increasing interest rates so that money is not so much on the market, and the other is shrinking budgets and limiting the entry of any additional money into the market, as this is one of the origins of the problem. Yes, I know that the European central banks are discussing this, and the Minister of Finance will probably be able to talk about it further on various issues. But what else do I want to say about Estonia's great economic growth? One of the main reasons is that society was disengaged during the [chorona epidemic]. When I have met various Estonian entrepreneurs, very many have said that during the COVID they did very well. And also because there were so severe COVID restrictions in Europe that the factories were closed, people were not allowed to work and production was not produced. This meant that our companies, which were working at the same time, actually gained a larger market share. But now all the other factories have started to work, societies have gone loose and this is the pressure on all inputs, be it metal, be it other raw. It also puts prices under pressure, and price growth comes with it. So it's really been one big reason. But now for helping people. My reference was that, after all, this greater form of support means that there must also be sources of cover. And if, on the one hand, you want to say that excise duties on fuel or VAT must be reduced, then that means lower receipts in the state budget, which in turn means that the money used to help those in need is even less. If you decide to put an additional cost of nearly EUR 300 million per year here, then that means that all other thoughts must be forgotten. There's just no money. So I call on you to withdraw your signatures from this bill and think about these issues, along with the state budget, so that all needs can be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U112	Please ask for an additional question, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U113	Good manager! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you that inflation is about energy, but our houses are like the houses of Nihv-Nihvi. Maybe you should tell people you can live in a colder room with a thicker sweater on. But you're saying again that we should withdraw the signature. I cannot miss the opportunity and ask you: do you and Jüri Ratas continue to agree and want to go ahead with holding hands to control this inflation, or do you already have [other thoughts]? You said we should withdraw the signature. The sluts already took it. Do you have your hands set on the matter with the Sots and the Fatherland, or do you and Jüri Ratas go on happily?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U114	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U115	The issue of inflation... But yes, as you know, the Riigikogu is within 101 mathematics and it is clear that the government is formed by the one who gets an agreement on the fact that there are at least 51 votes behind it in this Riigikogu, at least 51 delegates. And indeed, once the government is formed, there will be a coalition treaty, and there will be points in the coalition agreement for which the government stands. And there has indeed been a situation where, under the leadership of Jüri Ratas, a coalition partner has gone to seek an agreement outside the coalition, which means that yes, this form of coalition no longer exists. This is clear after the step our coalition partner took.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U116	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U117	Let's move on to question 10. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the topic is energy spending. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U118	Good manager! Minister of Finance! As I heard a moment ago, this coalition doesn't really exist. You're the Minister of Finance now, today. But we're talking about energy again. I'd like to go to the LNG terminal. I've been watching this game. Chemistry hasn't worked out in the last few days. And now Alexela has already built a big, long dam, about a mile long, and says they're gonna pay for it all. But there are no free lunches, as we know. As far as I know, it's gonna cost about 150 million. My question to you is: how much will it ultimately cost us taxpayers? Do you have any such details?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U119	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U120	Thank you. If your question concerned how much can be spent from the state budget to create LNG capacity, then an additional budget of up to EUR 30 million has been adopted freshly in order to create LNG capacity. But it's really "until." In particular, it is linked to the fact that if a ship is rented and the costs have to be borne by a joint venture formed between Estonia and Finland, these costs could be covered. This does not further affect the decisions taken by a private investor. So there are up to 30 million additional budgets in order to create LNG capacity in Estonia. This has been approved quite freshly by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U121	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and thank the members of the Government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U122	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 16th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. As always at the beginning of the sitting, it is now possible to deliver drafts or enquiries. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U123	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Only recently, the Prime Minister shocked the entire Estonian public, claiming that there are 85% Estonians in Estonia. I do not know where he takes his own data, because even we have far less Estonian skills and the proportion of Estonians is 60% with something, so the data is quite different. In recent years, we have had an inflow of 5 000 to 6 000 people from abroad. We once had an immigration quota that provided for 0.1%, or about 1300 people. Over the years, 18 exceptions have been made, mainly under the leadership of the Reform Party, and some time ago all exceptions were abolished. In essence, the Estonian door was opened to anyone, no matter where, without any restrictions. We're not talking about a war refugee yet. But that means that in a short time we will remain a minority in our own country. Estonian language, Estonian culture, Estonian nation is fading, and in order to prevent and limit it even so that we can last and survive, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has submitted an amendment to the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act in order to keep the state of Estonia as stipulated in our Constitution for the preservation of Estonian language, culture and nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U124	I don't see any more calls. We will, of course, decide on further processing of this draft in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act in the Bureau. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U125	75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U126	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the review of today's agenda. Yesterday we did not have a review of the agenda and we did not open the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Employment Contracts Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Now we can do it. For a first reading presentation, please contact the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, of the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U127	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to give you an overview of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Employment Contracts Act and the changes planned in this regard. The main objective of the draft is to improve the organisation and quality of occupational health services and cooperation between employers and occupational health practitioners to ensure a safe working environment and to prevent work-related health problems. The aim is also to support teleworking so that it can be done in a safe and health-friendly manner. To this end, compliance with occupational health and safety requirements will also be clarified in teleworking and a clear division of responsibilities between employers and workers will be laid down. The aim is also to reduce the administrative burden on employers in investigating accidents at work and occupational diseases and to improve legal clarity in the processing of workers' health data. More specifically, the changes we make to the Health and Safety at Work Act are as follows: We provide the employer with the obligation to order a comprehensive occupational health care service, within which the occupational health doctor will examine the risk analysis of the working environment, visit the working environment if necessary, analyse the occupational health situation of the company as a whole at least once every three years, carry out health surveillance of workers, based on the risk analysis of the working environment, make proposals to the employer to improve working conditions and promote the health of workers, based on the analysis of the health situation of the company and the results of workers' health checks, advise the employer on the adaptation of the working environment and working conditions and the promotion of workers' health, and also advise the employee on health promotion issues. The law also makes clear the employer's obligation to implement the same proposals as those of the occupational health doctor to improve the working environment and to promote the health of workers, if this does not entail disproportionate costs for the employer. The organisation of health surveillance of workers will become more flexible. If, within the last six months, an employee has undergone a health check with another employer on the same occupational hazards and the same type of work, the employer may carry out a health check at the time specified in the decision made by the employee and not within four months of taking up employment, as is the case today. Overall, changes are likely to lead to a slight increase in employers' costs, estimated at an average of EUR 600 per year. The exact cost depends on the size of the company, the level of risk, the nature of the activity, the number of employees and so on. However, in the long term, we consider the changes to be profitable for employers, as a safer and better maintained working environment will also reduce workers' work-related illness and absenteeism due to illness, the risk of accidents and so on. In the same law, we are more specifically regulating teleworking mathematics, i.e. we specify the employer's obligations in the case of teleworking, such as describing the risks associated with teleworking in the risk analysis of the work environment, implementing the necessary remedies, as well as the supervision of workers before being allowed to work at a distance, and ensuring, on a regular basis, the means of work suitable for the performance of their duties in certain cases, unless otherwise agreed, as well as the design and furnishing of a teleworking job, unless the employer and the employee have agreed that this is an employee's responsibility. The organisation of health surveillance of workers, the investigation of accidents at work and occupational illnesses and the conditions for the payment of sickness benefits are also more clearly laid down. Other requirements of the same law must be met in the case of teleworking, according to how it is possible in real life to meet the specific characteristics of teleworking. There are clearly certain places where the employer can take responsibility and contribute to a safe working environment, but there are certain places where it is not realistic. A simple example: the employer does not have to provide first aid to the employee in the event of teleworking; it is not physically possible, but he can instruct the employee on how to behave in the event of accidents. Perhaps in the case of teleworking, the employee's responsibility will certainly increase. The worker must design a safe place of work and safe working conditions during teleworking in accordance with the instructions given by the employer. The general logic of teleworking, of course, is that it can only be done by agreement between the employer and the employee. An employer shall be relieved of liability for teleworking only if he has fulfilled all the obligations described above: he has assessed the risks, instructed the employee and done so. Then it is up to the employee to ensure that the place of teleworking is actually safe, and if anything happens, he will also be responsible for it. Of course, when working on a distance, accidents at work or occupational illnesses may occur, which the employer must investigate in the same way as prescribed by the law in force, this is not a new requirement. Possible methods must be identified for this purpose. There is certainly a greater burden of proof for the worker than for the normal working environment, as it is considerably more difficult to estimate But this growing amount of teleworking is not inevitable, which means that we need to think about how to resolve these disputes in such situations. The draft also clarifies the procedure for investigating accidents at work and occupational diseases. For example, we are losing the concept of a minor and serious accident at work, as this definition is very subjective and has no substantive value for the employer, the employee and the Labour Inspectorate. Logic is that all accidents at work must be investigated and a report must be drawn up and submitted to the Labour Inspectorate on the results of the investigation where the result of an accident at work is, for example, temporary incapacity to work or, worse, the death of an employee. The employer will also be given the opportunity to create reports on accidents at work in the work environment database, i.e. it will be made easier, as I referred to earlier, to cut red tape. This is an electronic tool for self-service of the Labour Inspectorate. These reports are stored in the database, which also means that the employer's administrative burden will be reduced; he does not have to file them for himself. The draft also regulates the processing of worker's health data, as there is no regulation in the current law, when we are talking about the health and safety at work law. The logic is, as usual, that it makes sense to make this more precise in order to avoid possible disputes. We do not, in fact, change the rights of the employer when processing the employee's health data, because all the obligations relating to them exist under the current law, but the aim is to provide more legal clarity so that both employers and employees are fully aware of the situations in which the employer has the right to process the employee's health data. Let me give you some examples. The employer has the right to process the worker's health data in order to meet health and safety requirements, such as the organisation of occupational health services, the investigation of accidents at work and occupational diseases, the application of measures to protect against dangerous chemicals, the application of measures to protect him against biological hazards and the identification of alcohol and narcotic drugs. However, when processing health data, the employer must, of course, comply with all the requirements for the protection of personal data, including the determination of the person who processes health data, who also has the obligation to keep secrets, to ensure that the data is not accessible to unauthorised persons, to set time limits for the storage of data and to do all the same. The employer does not have the right to ask the employee about his or her chronic illness or other medical conditions by this law. Nor is there a right to ask for an extract of the health information system data or to have access to it in any sense, so that it is also specified. In addition, we will amend the Employment Contracts Act. These changes concern the provision of data relating to the working of minors. In the future, the employer will be obliged to provide information on the working conditions of minors and the consent of the parent to the work environment database and no longer on the employment register. A technical solution will be created to allow the input of this data. When entering the TÖR, there will be an automatic channelling to ensure that this does not impose any additional administrative burden on employers. Amendments related to the organisation of occupational health services and the amendment to the Employment Contracts Act are due to enter into force as from 1 January 2023, amendments relating to the investigation of accidents at work and occupational diseases, such as the development of a work environment database, already from 1 September 2022. If the procedure of the Riigikogu takes longer, it is, of course, possible to postpone it. The teleworking changes that I have described will enter into force as a general rule under the proposal. Thank you and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U128	And there are questions. Peter Ernits is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U129	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. There are many questions, but the basic question is this: will this necessary law be passed during this government coalition, or will there be other circumstances when we deal with it? My question is: if the Centre Party is no longer in the coalition, will it continue to support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U130	Thank you. I think it would be good if these legislative changes were adopted during this parliamentary term, regardless of who is in the coalition and who is in opposition. These are sensible proposals, helping to improve health and safety at work in the workplace. I will certainly support them, both as Minister for Health and Labour and during any other possible challenges that you will kindly offer me. But as far as I know, the work of this coalition is continuing. Of course, such major changes are also important to negotiate with the opposition, regardless of who is currently forming the opposition. That is why we are debating in this Chamber at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U131	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U132	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that it is very good that we really clearly regulate the employer's obligations even in the case of teleworking. These problems are being discussed around the world, and I see that the current regulation is quite progressive. Thank you for that. But I have some questions here. One part that I do not see here in this teleworking regulation is that it falls on its shoulders to cover the overall costs that an employee will certainly incur in the case of teleworking, such as heating or electricity, as well as the costs of food breaks, which are often covered by the company. It's open here. Have we thought about whether it's somewhere else that says what's going to happen to it? Question two. If an undertaking undertakes to design and decorate a teleworking job, does this mean that it will automatically also have the right to come and check how it has been done? On the other hand, is the employee entitled to demand that this chair and table be ordered, delivered, put together in this place? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How is it designed, regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U133	Thank you. A lot of good questions. How come we're even bringing it into the law? We can see that its volume is increasing as a result of the pandemic and also more broadly, and these possible disputes are also growing. We do have a guide that regulates it, but, as you well know, the guide is by nature not a legislative act, but of an indicative nature and it is very difficult to rely on it in any dispute. It is therefore reasonable to write down these agreements. They have been negotiated with both trade unions and employers so that they are balanced, and indeed [would be clear] what rights and obligations of one or the other party are. At the moment, there is no so-called requirement that the employer should start to compensate for other costs, such as electricity, water or catering. It is always possible for the employer to agree otherwise with the employee, to reach such agreements in the framework of a collective agreement or otherwise. Logic is that if, for example, the employer says that he wants the employee to work remotely, but the person may not have the necessary electronic equipment at home or the established office, depending on the nature of the job, in which case the employer needs to ensure these working conditions. He can't just tell an employee to go home and work in a situation where an employee might not have that chance. But if they agree differently, for example, the employee himself very much wants to go to teleworking and the employer says that I do not have the ability to provide you with a teleworking office, then in that case it is the employee's own so-called risk, he takes this responsibility himself and says that I will do my own home office and whether it's okay that I start, I don't know, three days a week or part-time or full-time teleworking. Here too, it depends on the agreement between you and me. It will obviously be different in different sectors, depending on the number of employees and many others. So I think that all the issues of extra costs need to be resolved between specific employers and trade unions or between employers and employees. The right of anyone to go home, as far as I know, is not automatically accompanied by any law. Of course, if, for example, there is some very complex technique, there may be a situation where a worker is placed at home with some very specific electronic equipment or employer's machines, and then there may really be an interest that a technician comes and installs them, makes sure that they are safe and that any security requirements are met. There may be different situations in different sectors, but I believe that we generally still see that the employee is furnishing his own home office. Maybe he can get a computer from his employer, the necessary equipment, or furniture. However, the fact that this should necessarily be done in such a way that all employees' homes go through by the employer is not meant by this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U134	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U135	Thank you. I read this law and these changes. Paragraph 7 is supplemented by paragraph 4 as follows: "The employer has the right to process data from studies and analyses [... ]]" It is probably the first time in Estonia that the employer may start processing health research analyses. Why or where did such a thought come up? What's the reason? Maybe there's a very good reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U136	Thank you. In fact, as I referred to earlier, we are not extending the rights between employers or employees here, but rather regulating them more clearly than before. Perhaps today, too, due to the risk assessment of the working environment, there is a right to ask for the results of certain studies. During the pandemic, in the case of different infectious diseases, but also in other situations, the employer may need to make sure that the person does not have tuberculosis, has no coronavir or any other risky disease at a particular workplace, or, for example, does not have any other contraindications for working with chemicals. These are not new rights or requirements, they are rather more clearly regulated than before, precisely in order to have a uniform understanding of what are the situations in which the employer has the right to process health data and where not, and also the employee would be clearer in the sense that the law states what are his rights and what are the rights of the employer, so that no disputes arise. This issue was also discussed in the Commission. It is clear that neither the employer has any interest in dealing with workers' health records. This is a sensitive issue and excessive interest can be attributed to the employer's view of litigation or proceedings, or to the transfer of workers to other jobs. Certainly, the employer's interest is rather to ask and process the data that are actually necessary for working in this particular work environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U137	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U138	Thank you very much. Good minister! Of course, thousands are watching us now, including employers looking at us and looking for information for the future. As we know, we have two big ghosts, we have a bureaucratic ton and we have an inflation ton. One's taller, one's shorter. That is why my question is very specific. How does this draft affect employers' administrative responsibilities, or bureaucracy? Is it increasing or decreasing? If so, to what extent? Is there any way to make an assessment? How does this law affect the costs of an employer or employee? How can they be appreciated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U139	I would say that the main aim of this draft is to improve the safety of the working environment and occupational health services. The logic is that it is very difficult for us to measure health care bureaucratically at all, whether doing any research could mean additional bureaucracy. If, in conclusion, this means a healthier person or a healthier working environment, then this bureaucracy is justified in this case. Here, too, the same goal is that, if, for example, as I was referring to, the occupational health doctor has assessed that certain specific activities are necessary because of risk analysis, such as some worker's research or the provision of health services or a safe health environment for the worker, it means not even bureaucracy, but additional work for the employer, but it also means a healthier and safer working environment for workers. So that's how they balance each other. From a purely bureaucratic point of view, we have tried to ensure, as far as possible, employer-friendly solutions, as I referred to earlier. For example, when investigating accidents at work and occupational diseases, the administrative burden on employers is actually reduced by the introduction of the digital environment of the Labour Inspectorate. Similarly, compliance with different archiving obligations is decreasing. Rather, the financial cost of a substantial occupational health care service, i.e. the cost of real health care services to an employee or an employer at the workplace, may increase. But, as indicated, it is an investment in a safer working environment and healthier workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U141	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, it is an important draft concerning 77697 employers and 582600 employees. But here is this remark: the Confederation of Trade Unions has said this: if a contract of employment is cancelled because of a deterioration in health due to the employer, no compensation will have to be paid. It concerns everyone, remote workers, and everyone. Why such a negative attitude to the current bill? Or when will it be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U142	Thank you. Yeah, that's a very good question. It's a bit broader now, really. In this case, we are talking about a person's right to compensation at the end of a contract of employment. The specific draft does not address this issue. The trade unions did indeed point out that this concern was unsolved in the principle. I think it makes sense to find an adequate balance here, so it is the responsibility of the employer to pay these benefits or the obligation of the state to guarantee them if, in fact, because of health, the contract of employment has been terminated. This is indeed not the case at the moment, as the deterioration of the employee's health may or may not be related to the employer. Here's the difference. In what case would an employer be burdened by, for example, the requirement to pay compensation, if the health of the worker has deteriorated because of third circumstances, is it an accident, an injury, a disease or any other such [cause]? But in principle, of course, there is this problem. People who are already in a more vulnerable position, i.e. are exiting the labour market because of circumstances, because of health, are not guaranteed enough necessary benefits by law. So this is a separate issue on which we can debate, but we have not really solved it in [the procedure] of this draft, because it concerns occupational health care, the cooperation of occupational doctors with employers and workers. These changes have also been negotiated, as has been said, with both sides of the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U143	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U144	Thank you. I want to say that this is the very right initiative and that it is very appropriate to address it. I wanted to respond to the question of a good fellow Oudekki Loone. I think the Minister can also confirm that there is nothing illegal about the reimbursement of their home expenses today and it does not, in fact, have to be regulated separately when you look at the guidance material on the special benefit on the tax administration's website. If the employer and the employee have agreed to do so, the employer shall be entitled to compensate for it in a reasonable proportion when the employee is working at home. Of course, I don't know, you can't compensate for a building repair fund, but you can definitely get a reasonable share of the electricity bill. So the Minister will probably be able to confirm that. I think it is also important for Oudekki Loone to know that there is no need for any change in the law to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U145	Thanks for the clarification. If I may now return to the question of Riigikogu member Oudekki Loone, it seemed to me that he asked whether there would be an obligation for the employer to do so or a requirement by law. There will be no such obligation, but this opportunity really is, as I replied. It is true that not all matters can be regulated by law. But the fact that an employer can offer it as part of his motivation package that there are certain benefits, certain services will be paid for if you work at home it can be free. All the more so as this use of teleworking, especially on a large scale, could also mean savings in office costs. So in the end, they both win.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U146	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Let us now look at the amendment and wording of § 1 (2). Is this the reason why both the Defence Forces and the PBA have lost their jobs in court because of the corona virus? When I read it here, it seems to me that that's why this correction has been introduced. When you answered the previous question, you said nothing would change. Why are these improvements made if nothing changes? Then there is no point in inserting amendments into this bill. But I would like to get an answer to the first [question], is it done so that the government and the heads of the administration can let people go more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U148	Thank you. No, the purpose of this bill is not to facilitate the release of anyone. Estonia has the rule of law. If the court decides that one or the other activity or occupational risk analysis and the resulting decision were not legal, the judgment must be respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U149	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, we should seriously consider the side of bureaucracy for every law. It's just elementary and crucial. Sometimes a big problem emerges from small things. The assessment of bureaucracy is certainly important in this draft. You said it wasn't important, but I think it's important. Let me just give you a small example to illustrate this problem, which does not add much in itself, but still describes it quite well. The Service Economy Chamber has said that it could be abandoned that the employer must demonstrate the compulsory education of children aged 7 to 12 when it is obvious that these children are subject to compulsory education. The answer to this is: Not taken into account, because these children may not yet have gone to school, or be kindergarten children. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is it still not like clearly ignoring and amplifying bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U151	Thank you. We will certainly find those points where there are arguments on both sides. In this case, too. I agree that most children go to school at this age. There are also children who do not go to school, and this is the other way around, because the interest of the state is that the 7 to 12 year olds still fulfil their school obligations. This is not only an obligation, but also an opportunity to cultivate yourself. I am not currently in possession of statistics, as many people in this age group have been excluded from school for some reason, inevitably there are, unfortunately, for various reasons. But within the framework of this draft, we really did make the changes that were agreed between the social partners and the ministry. There are certainly still places where bureaucracy can be further reduced. Here further debate is very welcome and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U152	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. I'm looking at this bill, and for me, there's a little dissonance here that when you talk about occupational health and injury assessment and things, all the examples are still [such as] that the helmet wasn't worn and the head injury and whatever. But a large part of this bill and explanatory memorandum is about teleworking. I don't really think anyone should be running around with a helmet and building a house with a long-distance job. Remote work is mostly such computer work. I think this part is well-regulated. Well-regulated also in the sense that it may even look good on paper, but it will not actually be filled in. Does it make sense to work so hard and write on paper words that no one will ever take seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U154	Thank you. I must admit that I did not understand whether this last remark concerned the physical working environment or whether it was teleworking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U155	It's a long-distance job.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U156	Remote work, got it. This bill, as I described earlier, has multiple targets, multiple blocks. One is the overall improvement in the organisation and quality of occupational health services, the improvement of cooperation between doctors and employers. This applies more broadly to places where teleworking is possible and to places where it is not done. Examples are the most serious areas of work accidents, it is the construction sector, it is the other, such places of exposure to chemicals. Unfortunately, from time to time, we all have to see or read from the columns of the paper that there are accidents that wouldn't have happened if we met the requirements, and there are people leaving us who should be alive. The remote control unit is separate. This is what we really brought in because the volume of teleworking has now simply increased so much as a result of the pandemic, and it may be thought that it is either a completely permanent trend, but still a trend that is growing over time. So far, it has been regulated by a guide, which was our original idea. When I became a minister, then, I remember, this guide was endorsed by the parties in the field, but since the guide has no legal force and now there are disputes which are exactly responsible for teleworking, our assessment, both by employers and trade unions, was that it makes sense to clearly record in the law, which is the duty of one or the other party to make it easier for the Labour Inspectorate and the courts to understand who the decision should be in favour of, or unfortunately, one or another. You guys appreciate never fulfilling these things. That is certainly not the case. I agree that you can always say that the law gets too detailed, that you have to draw that line somewhere. Our first preference at the time was a guide, but real life showed that the guide was simply not enough. Now we have come to the point where it is proposed to bring these same principles into the legislative world, in order to ensure greater clarity both in the event of disputes and, more generally, greater clarity for the social partners in providing teleworking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U157	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to continue with Mr Randper's question, and also with my own question, which I asked earlier, perhaps I will ask about the amount of bureaucracy, now in the context of teleworking. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has made a number of proposals and a considerable part of them has not been taken into account. It has been tried to prove that there is a need to assess these risks, to think them all through. At the same time, it is said that no one tells you to go home and appreciate the working environment, and yet they have to do all these things. In my opinion, there is still serious work to be done on this draft to cut red tape and make it [the draft] so that no pointless, completely pointless burden is placed on employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U159	Thank you. As I referred to earlier, many of these amendments are the result of life itself, as it can be seen that these disputes arise. We may not write it down in law, but it does not lose this argument or this situation. Of course, the network of relations between employers and employees, the volume of agreements is considerably higher than any law can be put in. That makes sense, that makes sense. However, since there are quite a number of situations where there are disputes where one refers to a guide, the other says that the guide is not a law that is true, it seemed reasonable, in the interests of both parties, to write it down, to state it in the law. If Parliament decides to dim, supplement, change the apology for such a simple use of words! Then, of course, it is Parliament's right. But the principle, I think, of introducing a certain regulation in a situation where the volume of teleworking is simply so much increasing in time, is no longer an exception, but becomes the norm in some areas, is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U160	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U161	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read here: analysing the health situation and making proposals to improve working conditions. In that regard, I would ask. What will be the role of occupational professionals who have so far done such work? Are these duplications? Have there been placed alongside a work environment specialist and now a new [professional], occupational health doctor's duties and seen how much duplication there will be? Who pays for occupational health care, and what does it bring to the employer? Is there a great deal of duplication of tasks here, or does the employer still have bureaucracy and [this requires] financial resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U162	Thank you. Let's say, yes, this regulation of the health protection of the workplace and of workers, and the number of workers responsible for it, can be very different within the institution, if we are talking about a small business, or we are talking about a large company, where there is a completely separate person who deals with it more thoroughly. But this obligation to order occupational health care, to assess certain risks and to carry out health surveillance is also in current law. It's not a new thing. It's the introduction of an occupational doctor. Rather, the aim is for these systems to be more compatible precisely in the view that, if the occupational health care professional has made any recommendations, he has made no estimates that they will actually be implemented and will not remain such a blank paper that this inspection is carried out once a year, then a year or more will pass and another check will be carried out. Rather, it would be precisely the proposals on how working conditions can be improved. They may be related to the worker, but may also be linked to the company, i.e. the working environment and improving it, so that they are taken into account in practice, so that improvements are made in the light of the results of the health checks, in order to improve safety at work and, specifically, the supporting working environment. We know that our people's healthy lives are, unfortunately, not significantly high, rather lower than the average retirement age, which is embarrassing and saddening. This is where we can contribute to all education, the social sector, all kinds of employers, so that people can stay healthy longer and enjoy their old age. That's its goal. I don't see any increase in duplication. On the contrary, it is precisely necessary to avoid unnecessary checks and re-checks if, as a result of these proposals, nothing really happens and they simply remain on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U163	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a general question about our work, the Riigikogu. Will this law have a direct effect on our work here? All the more so as we now work as the Supreme Court has said, and that is also... I don't know what they're saying. If this is not the case, why do we have to have something different than the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U165	Yeah. I think that the Riigikogu itself is just the right thing to regulate its working environment and work requirements. It is possible to open this debate in the course of the same draft procedure or more broadly. Certainly we here in this case, in the ministry's view, are perhaps trying to deal with a large picture, general requirements, but there are situations and jobs where [work] does not take place under the ordinary contract law. One of them is the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U166	Ivi Eenmaa, please! Question two.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U167	Thank you. However, how do you feel about the right of the Supreme Court to tell us when we can do long-distance work and when we can't do it? What's your attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U168	Yes, we have the principle of separation of powers: just as executive power does not tell the legislative authority how to work, I am certainly not going to tell the judicial authority what recommendations must be made. However, the Riigikogu is the highest body of the legislative power who can, if necessary, fundamentally amend all laws, in certain cases it is necessary to have a very large majority, or to have several compositions of the parliament, but in substantive terms it is possible either to regulate these teleworking solutions or such [things] more clearly in law than the majority of the Riigikogu thinks it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U169	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U170	Thank you. In the light of Mrs Eenmaa's question: do the points that we are discussing here apply only to those who work under the Employment Contracts Act, or do they also apply to officials, for example? The members of the Riigikogu do not have a contract of employment. I think that they do not apply very much to the members of the Riigikogu, although people working in this house who are [working] on some other legal basis will certainly apply, and everyone who works here on the basis of a contract of employment will certainly be subject to them. This might be a little more explained to which forms of work all these changes apply, especially the change in teleworking that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U171	Thank you. Indeed, above all, we are talking about workers, workers on the basis of an employment contract, but there may also be other legal forms. For example, it does not apply to independent companies and it does not apply at least to Members of Parliament in full. But we are talking about the overwhelming majority of Estonian staff, so as not to say almost everyone. This is about the size of the population, I will say, 80% of our employment population.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U172	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U173	Thank you and have a beautiful day for child welfare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U174	Yeah. Now, on the side of the Social Affairs Committee, I ask Siret Eagle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U175	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Committee addressed the Act amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Employment Contracts Act on 16 May this year. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and Eva Põldis, Adviser to the Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave a comprehensive overview of the draft law in the Commission. Today, Minister Tanel Kiik gave you a thorough review here, too, and I will not go over this again. However, I will address and raise the issues that have been addressed in the Commission, and I will mention them separately. As regards teleworking, the Commission asked whether it was correctly understood that the worker was responsible for the safety requirements of the home office. In response, it was found that the employer generally gives instructions to the employee that draw attention to risks, such as what the occupational health care professional has pointed out, and that the employee is responsible for the furnishing of a remote job. It also examined the extent to which the employer can access health data. The Commission responded that, in the framework of an occupational health check, the worker's health data directly related to the working environment and working conditions and essential to the employer's improvement of these conditions were transmitted to the employer. The employer has no right to data on diagnoses and the draft does not give the employer the right to know either human chronic diseases or genetic risks. The employer must also not ask about them, for example, when recruiting a person. The investigation into accidents at work in the case of teleworking was further examined, which was answered that teleworking accidents should be investigated in the same way as workplace accidents. However, even before moving on to teleworking, the employee and employer need to consider how the employee should act in the event of an accident at work and who should be informed to fix the situation. It was also examined whether there were statistics on the number of teleworking accidents that have occurred at work. It was answered that the Labour Inspectorate had not collected separate data on distance accidents. Everything has so far gone under the general indicator, i.e. accidents at work. There was also a question about the risk assessment of the working environment as to whether, for example, by determining biological hazards, the employer could learn more health data than necessary. It was said that the draft is certainly not intended to provide more information to the employer and does not have the right to ask for it. The Labour Inspectorate in its supervision [under review] will be able to carry out risk analyses and prescribes to the employer if it has gone too far. The employee can always contact the Labour Inspectorate for advice if the employer seems to be asking too much information. The following procedural decisions were taken in the committee, which were all consensual, as I say in advance: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 31 May, which was yesterday, to appoint me as the representative of the leading committee, Siret Kotka, the Commission's proposal is to complete the first reading of the draft, and the deadline for submitting amendments is ten working days in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U176	Looks like my colleagues don't have any questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. That's not what I want, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have completed the first reading of draft 615 and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U177	Let's move on to the second item: Draft Act 564 amending the Law on International Protection for Aliens, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. Please, Raimond Kaljulaid! First reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U178	Honourable fellows! You have before you the [proposal] 564 of the law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien. This draft itself is not very complicated. It complements § 34 of the Act on the Grant of International Protection by making it possible for persons who give part of their dwelling or also a dwelling as a whole to an alien who applies for international protection or an alien who has received international protection, in this situation, obviously means that Ukrainian war refugees, who in Estonia have a great deal of use for at least six years and do so free of charge, can be paid for it. With regard to the amount of this support and the arrangements for more precise payment, given that we are living in such a rapidly changing time and that the situation with regard to war refugees is changing rapidly, this maximum flexibility is granted the right to make decisions to the Government of the Republic. This bill is not a purely Social Democratic Party creation. We have followed the practice of other countries, in particular the practice of the United Kingdom, where such support measures have been implemented. This programme is called the Homes for Ukraine programme by the UK Government, which, like what we are offering, provides for a grant of GBP 350 for people who are willing to accommodate Ukrainian war refugees. This GBP 350 amounts to EUR 420. Of course, in Estonia, this rate of support does not need to be as high as it is in Great Britain, which is twice as high as we are in the country with a standard of living. In our view, this support could be EUR 200.210, of this size, but from the United Kingdom it could be taken as an example that its housing must be provided not for a short period of time, not for one month or two months, but for at least six months. It is important to stress, and I think that, also in recalling the debate on the draft that took place in the Commission, it is important to point out specifically that it is not rent compensation or additional income support for the refugee himself. On the contrary, it is a subsidy to the people of Estonia, to these people of us, and there are very many of them, who have had this opportunity and who have given their home or part of it to people who really do not have anywhere else to go right now. It is precisely these Estonian people that we support. This allows us to imagine, for example, this homeowner, among other things, to cover some of the costs that you may incur if you accommodate someone, but also allow for easier, smaller repairs on your dwelling, whatever. It does not have, so to speak, a national leader or a national guideline on what a person does with this money. It's a country, if you want, recognition or gratitude. Of course, there must be someone who will check whether this dwelling is actually suitable for housing, so that there is no situation in which, for example, this support scheme will be used. That is, of course, the best place to do that is the local government. Recently, with the social democrats, we made such a round, we visited several local governments in Estonia, larger and smaller, we met with the local government leaders and discussed how the daily lives of their municipalities and their functioning have been influenced by the fact that tens of thousands of new residents have come to Estonia in a very short period of time. With few exceptions, really few exceptions, the message from local governments was that we are dealing with a lot of things here on the ground, that employers need employees, that people find jobs, that we are generally able to solve these kindergarten and school issues, that there have been problems with health care, that the lists of family doctors are known to be full in Estonia, that it is difficult for locals to find a new family doctor. But one thing, one topic that was repeated in all these conversations was housing, housing and housing, and long-term accommodation, so how to arrange it. The state does not seem to have a concept in this regard. We have addressed the Minister for Social Protection separately with written questions on this issue, asking for clarification. It can be seen that the state is actively trying to solve this issue, but there are still many unknowns in this equation, let's say so. Of course, this does not solve the whole problem, it is quite clear, but it could be an additional measure, which in turn would motivate the market to enter with additional housing. This would also have a positive impact on our local people, as it would, however, slightly reduce the pressure on the rental market, which would slightly improve access to housing for local people as well. We know that, especially in Tallinn, the rental market has been significantly influenced by the fact that we have so many new residents added to this city. This draft, of course, also entails costs for the state. The truth is that it is difficult to predict exactly what this amount could be. At the time of drafting this draft, the country was known to have the highest forecast of how many war refugees could come to Estonia, to the order of 150,000 people, from which some authorities were based. Well, if I'm not mistaken, I think it was the Police and Border Guard Board that offered this number as one of the authorities. The reality is that so many people have not come to Estonia and today, depending on how developments in Ukraine are developing, it does not seem that we can reach such numbers in Estonia. But you can't, I guess, rule out that these numbers aren't going to be the top line. It is clear that there are people in Ukraine, especially in the areas of Eastern Ukraine, who have either not been able to leave the country or who are trying to organise their lives on the ground yet, but if Russia, knowingly, completely deliberately, continues to destroy, destroy, destroy, destroy Ukrainian industry and businesses' assets, then that means that people do not have a job, do not have a chance to organise their lives, do not have a school, there is no kindergarten to send their children to, there is no hospital to go to the doctor, and there are certainly still people who are thinking about leaving Ukraine. We thought that if, for example, there were 75000 refugees in Estonia at one point and the state needed help to accommodate every four of them, it really is such a maximum forecast, as conservative as possible, so let's say, 18750 people would need help in accommodation. Even if all of these people were to find housing under this scheme, the cost of this support would amount to EUR 24 million. But we understand that this is really a very pessimistic calculation based on the most-most-negative trends, just in case. The actual cost would probably be much lower if it were repeated. In order to implement this draft, the Government of the Republic must establish the amount of the specific support and the arrangements for its payment. As I said, [the reason] we do not necessarily want to address this issue here in the Riigikogu in all its nuances, is precisely that this situation is rapidly changing and dynamic. Here, I believe we can trust the government. I do not yet know which government, of course, but let us say that the government that is in office at the time of the adoption of this law will probably be able to rely on this task to be carried out. Or maybe you can't, depending on who's in that government and who's gonna be responsible for this. But it's a day policy, we're talking about other things here. That is briefly the content of this draft. I thank you very much for listening, and I am happy to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U179	Starting Signe Stone. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U180	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I wondered whether this bill would not impose further obligations on the country again, despite the already functioning cooperation of well-meaning people and volunteers in today's situation. A person wants to give his or her own dwelling, many have done so free of charge, but the authors of the bill want the state to start compensating. It's not enough, it's been pointed out that this living space is being reviewed. I read about bringing people together in this bill. It seems to me that all this work is working right now. Of course, it could always be better. But the country has quite a lot of financial obligations with regard to Ukrainian war refugees, and the people of Estonia have shown amazing sympathy. Why do we want to get involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U181	Thank you. I will start by saying that the state is already dealing with the issue of these dwellings. If, for example, the state is now renting housing to refugees in the private sector or, in the future, it will have to start, I don't know, creating or building them, then the costs per unit may be much higher. This commitment has actually been assumed by the State. So, on the contrary, support for this draft may lead to a reduction in the sum of the state's responsibilities, as it motivates people to come to the rescue of this situation even more. But the second assumption in your question was that it is already working. I'm afraid I can't quite agree with that. In fact, we know, and you can also ask Signe Riisalo, your party minister, that it has been extremely difficult to solve this issue. This has had to be done very quickly, this is a new task, no one was ready for it. Like I said, there's no real formula, I don't think there's a concept right now. I began my presentation by saying that in the local governments with whom we have spoken, in many local governments, indeed, this is the issue that is most raised. This also suggests that we do not have a really working solution. We're not saying it's a sucker or a silver bullet that solves all the problems. Absolutely not. That's one part. By the way, I think it is important to know that this solution has also been recommended to Estonia by today's MEP, the long-term Prime Minister of Estonia, President of the Reform Party Andrus Ansip. He gave an interview publicly in the Eesti Päevaleht and asked why Estonia did not make such a support scheme like the UK and other countries. In this sense, I think that the Reform Party should especially, with two hands, be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U182	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There are some things in the bill that are unwritten. First of all, is it a one-person allowance, and if there are four [members], is it multiplied by four? The other part is that there is nowhere, neither the explanatory memorandum nor anywhere in the letter, whether the lessor or the lessor must also pay income tax on it. Thirdly, as far as I've been researching the market from those who rent these rooms, they just wish they didn't have to pay income tax on the rent or rent they get in the long term. It would give a lot of people who rent the apartment clarity. Maybe you can explain why this support is this way. Then we'd all know we'd get some money on it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U184	Yeah. First of all, we're saying it's support for a person who gives his own living space for it. Yeah. It doesn't matter how many [there are people], whether there is a family, whether there are two members or three members. What matters is the person who gives this dwelling and who owns it. He is the one who receives this additional support from the state. This idea of tax exemption is, in my opinion, quite complex. Unfortunately, this bill deals with another issue, but it makes sense in itself. But they're a little like a different category of things. When we talk about income tax exemption, we are talking about the fact that the Ukrainian war refugee has come to Estonia, for example, he has found a job, children are in kindergarten or school, he is going to the rental market, he is renting an apartment from there, and then it is encouraged. However, here we are talking about the person who has come here, perhaps he has been accommodated once in some temporary solution, temporarily created by the state, and now he would need to get a living space free of charge, he gets a zero euro, and we support the person who is willing to help him. This is not yet the so-called market-based rental ratio. But, of course, in the ideal, the faster all the municipalities said, and that is what the Social Democrats say, these people find jobs, find these kindergarten places and school places, and can quite normally rent an apartment on the rental market themselves, the better, of course. Then we can get the country out of there. Neither do the Ukrainian people want to live on alms. Those of you who come here to the refugee centre are talking about it, in principle, one of the first questions is that, you know, I have a job or such skills, I'd like to work. In this sense, too, this is your idea or this tax idea is quite a good idea, but it is necessary in the second stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U185	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U186	Thank you for this interesting proposal, which, unfortunately, has not been very well developed. It looks more like proposing to the Government of the Republic than making a pretty considered amendment to the law. But he is certainly very interesting on the basis of the debate. What does this bill really mean? In essence, economically, this means that the state rents housing for refugees from people. It's a substantive effect, no matter what we say, what it is or isn't, economically it works just like that. In your opinion, what is the impact of such support? You haven't actually foreseen this size and order here, but it's important. How do you see its impact on the rental market in general? After all, it is not short-term, it is a long-term rent, it certainly has an effect on the other rental market, whether in terms of prices or access to apartments. Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U187	Thank you. That's a very good question. This is not a substitute for rent income in this sense, just because a large proportion of refugees who have come from Ukraine, we know, want to live in Tallinn and stay in Tallinn or some other major city, you will probably understand that if we talk about decent housing, the owner could earn a much higher return for renting it on the rental market. In this sense, it certainly does not, as if, replace or compensate for this rental income. It is not in this form, but rather specifically targeted at people who want to help. There are. For example, the Mayor of Saaremaa told us that there are people in Saaremaa who own apartments that they rent during the summer period when there are many visitors and tourists in Saaremaa. This year, they have said that listen, the Ukrainians have such an accident, a difficult situation, ashes from my rent income, I am missing it one summer, I have given an apartment to Ukrainian war refugees, let them live until they get back on their feet. It's more like recognising people like that. The impact on rent income is a good question. Very briefly: I would like to hope that it will have a positive effect that it will slightly reduce the rise in rent prices, because it could motivate people to offer housing that is not offered today. I do not know, for example, that someone has a floor or a part of a house that can be used and that meets all the requirements, and the municipality confirms that it offers sufficient privacy and that it all fits. In short, the hope is that it would bring additional accommodation for refugees and, by that, there would be more available space in the rental market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U188	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U189	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I was just about to ask you about that. Somehow the aspect is that we are not talking about a situation where living quarters are freely available to both Estonians and Ukrainians. Given the number of war refugees, we clearly have a shortage of housing and more needs to be brought to the market. On the other hand, the people of Estonia have undoubtedly been very helpful, sympathetic to the Ukrainians, ready to help them, because they are now fighting for us. But to expect that a person, even if it is not his own living space, but a small apartment or a surface used in the summer, will give it infinitely free use it can't be asked by people. Maybe four months or six months. Today, this voluntary contribution has been high. Later on, a person does not receive market-based rent for this, yet he also makes a voluntary contribution to help the Ukrainians. But to say that all people on income, all households, have to use their surfaces free of charge, I find it unfair. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U190	Yeah, of course. In fact, it is simply an additional opportunity or an additional incentive for the people who have the opportunity. I will tell you what stories have been heard as we move across Estonia. For example, there are people who, figuratively speaking, have a garden house with all the comforts of children or grandchildren during the summer period. Now they're ready to give it to the war refugees, you can live there, there's everything there, everything's a total top-up, and they've done it. For example, when we talk about cities in remote areas, this may involve not an obligation for this owner, but there is still a situation where you have a person from Ukraine who needs to go to the centre, to take care of things, to attend a kindergarten place or to have documents for school. Still a good Estonian person helps with transportation, helps with one thing, helps with another. In a sense, this would help to partially compensate for these costs. But yes, indeed, it is still for those who have the opportunity, for whom this financial motive is not the most important, to have additional national recognition. In the UK, it has indeed been welcomed very positively. As I said to the Reform Party, Mr Ansip, I think, very keenly, in understanding the situation in Europe well, it has also been pointed out that it could be implemented. I think the Reform Party could take that point. It would be nice if you would still try to implement the ideas of your former chairman in this Chamber and do so in cooperation with the social democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U191	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Raimond! I have this feeling that the main debate is about why it is not possible to deal with these matters within the existing set of rules. A person rents at market price. If he or she has difficulties in paying, he or she will apply for income support, be reimbursed and everything will be just as well. Why do you think the usual scheme we have now doesn't work in this case? Why do we have to provide additional support or just as we reward those owners who give free of charge in order to make up for a little bit of their costs? In fact, it is probably the amount that is set out here in the draft explanatory memorandum, even exceeding utility payments as a rule. Why do we have to go this difficult way? Why can't we apply existing schemes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U193	Dear Eduard, However, it is also becoming increasingly difficult to rent at market prices in local cities, for example, because we have completely unregulated short-term rental of apartments through various platforms, which many cities have regulated, because otherwise local people will no longer have or will not want to live there, as has happened tragically and is happening to the old town [Tallinn] from which local people leave. One major reason is precisely this short-term rental market for apartments. In this sense, one point is that the rental market for locals is not working anymore. Housing is low and the price is known to be one of the things that form the ratio between supply and demand. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U194	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U195	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is based on one phrase that you let fall during this parliamentary debate here. You mentioned that the local government or someone could also check whether the areas for which support is in any way adequate. That's my question. This idea is, of course, very good in itself, in order to rule out any form of support or even more exploitation of refugees, which has actually happened in the countries you mentioned or who are using such grants. But should this idea be extended to the rental market even more? Should the local government or anyone else be obliged to check that the apartment offered for rent corresponds to some sort of minimum quality, which, we assume, a person's place of residence could answer so that we can say that we do not let real dumps in the rental market? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U196	Thank you. In order to answer this question, good Oudekki, as thoroughly as I know you would expect, a separate analysis should be made of what legislative options are, whether it is a consumer protection issue or what instance and how, based on which laws it could or could be done. So this requires further analysis, which unfortunately I cannot do so quickly here in the Riigikogu Chair today. We must continue to discuss this very interesting proposal in another format.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U197	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U198	Good manager! Dear waitress, Glad to hear that you've circled [for the places] where the soccer governs, and you have an overview of how many such dwellings and apartments exist. Give an overview of how many are in Saaremaa or Hiiumaa or Võru or Tallinn city. Is it different from [the places] where the Socats are not in power? Offer size, estimated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U199	Thank you. You assumed that we only talked to the municipalities where the Social Democrats are in power. Of course not. I personally speak and my ladies and gentlemen speak very openly to the Estonian local government leaders. I also have no question talking about this with the head of government, who belongs to your party or to the Fatherland or Reform Party or to the Centre Party. This aspect of the party is not important at all. But you pressed the right button, the right button. When we started preparing this bill, I looked over... I know the Tallinn system very well. It is well known in Tallinn that all available municipal dwellings must be visible on the respective pages of the city districts on the Internet. They were lonely. The city of Tallinn, at the moment we started doing this bill and the refugee crisis had begun, was actually free of municipal social spaces. Single, lonely, lonely. Estonia simply has not contributed enough to municipal construction. The Social Democrats have been talking about this for a long time, the Centre Party has been talking about it for a long time, but some parties who believe that the market will solve all the problems have thought that this is some kind of bullshit, that there is no need to build these municipal and local rental apartments. And now we're in this situation. In fact, we know that many municipalities, including our most prosperous municipality, which is the capital, have had difficulties in fulfilling the requirement of the Social Welfare Act for years, which provides that the local government must provide housing for a person if it cannot guarantee it itself. No one is to be left without housing. The Chancellor of Justice has dealt with this, pointing out that if you put a person in line and say that we have you in the queue, there is no housing. That piece of paper that a person gets about being in that line, doesn't protect him from the rain and the cold. In fact, you point to the absolutely right problem. This bill will not solve this, but it is actually something that we should do when we draw up the state budget, I hope that here we may be able to work together very seriously so that resources are provided for it. This measure exists; it is simply money that must be given there. So there's another assignment for the new government when he takes office. Soon we will hear a presentation by the Prime Minister's candidate here on the basis of the formation of the government. Well, then we can ask George Ratas how... I'm sorry! We can ask the prime minister's candidate how he's gonna do it, how he's gonna do it, how he's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U200	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U201	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, For Peter Ernitsa, it is probably surprising how many municipalities have social democrats in power. But that's also why we know how different these circumstances are. After all, we are not talking about the fact that our draft concerns some kind of universal instrument that suits everyone and everything. Yeah, some people can rent apartments from the rental market, whether he's a war refugee or not. Some Estonian people give their space free of charge forever. Some municipalities have many municipal areas, some have few. In fact, it is simply an additional instrument that would enable many people to deal with their concerns. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U202	Thank you for that question. Yeah, that's right. Indeed, it is an additional instrument.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U203	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U204	Good manager! Dear waitress, As you have recently told me, the new Prime Minister will soon be here to take his oath. What position do you have there? So you are the Minister for Social Protection, and can you see how to make the lives of Ukrainians even better and accept them more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U205	Thank you, Mr Ernits, for this question. First of all, I must, of course, very much apologise to the experienced colleague in this to add that, before the Prime Minister can take an oath, he must speak to us about the foundations of the formation of the government, he must report on this, and then we must give Jüri, I am sorry, the candidate Prime Minister, a vote of support on this matter. It's gonna take a little while. As far as my future is concerned, you know that I work in the Committee on Economic Affairs and that I have dealt mainly with economic and business issues. This is where I certainly feel much stronger than in social protection or health matters. But we have fantastic people in the group who know the detail of the system: Riina Sikkut, Eduard Odines. Ivar Padar is certainly also a very good expert in this field. Well, then, don't you... In short, I have no further comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U206	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U207	Thank you. And thank you for the good words. That is the question: when it comes to this specific draft, where we are talking about support, and when it comes to the fact that it was, I believe, a central alliance of owners who came up with proposals concerning tax incentives, how would they now work together? How would you see that if there were support and a tax credit, how would they work together in this rental market?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U208	Thank you. As I tried to explain earlier, these are actually quite different measures. However, we are talking today about the fact that it is indeed the primary housing needs of a war refugee who has arrived here [satisfying]. But the idea of a tax credit is that a person already has some kind of income or opportunity here, right, go to work, and then he rents this apartment on the rental market. They're like the first and second cars on the train. Something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U209	We ran out of questions. Thank you! And now from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U210	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Very good starters! This draft was discussed very thoroughly by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 10 May this year. In addition to the ordinary members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Andrus Seed also took part as an alternate member for some time. Mr Raimond also made a very thorough, clear and understandable presentation at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since this part of the lion, and even more so, was reported in the hall today, I will not repeat it. Tarmo Kurves, Head of Welfare Services and Support Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs Department, then expressed his opinion, who found that there is already a regulation of the payment of income support in Estonia by the [regulated] Social Welfare Act and that it is flexible enough to cover the rent-related costs of the dwelling. However, even if the rent does not have to be paid, other costs can also be taken into account when the income support starts to be paid. Indeed, a very fundamental question was this, and so did Raimond Kaljulaid repeatedly stress at the Commission meeting that the main problem is still that we do not have enough available apartments on the rental market. That is the main problem. I fully agree that this is a problem today, given the number of war refugees. But the question in itself is how many additional dwellings this bill could bring to the rental market. Personally, I have some doubts about that. Toomas Kivimägi ventured to think that if such a solution became a law, the people who received international protection would not be demotivated to find employment if, for example, one of the main costs of housing had been paid by the state within six months. I expressed the opinion that our goal could certainly be, and should be, that the war refugees who come to Estonia would still, if possible, go to the Estonian labour market with the maximum possible amount; they would not be so-called dependants at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer, but would really rather contribute to the Estonian economy. Both Raimond Kaljulaid and Eduard Odines resented the chairman of the committee, finding that this is somewhat inappropriate and that [the generation] has sufficient motivation to look for work, given where they came from, and that they do not actually have any savings previously collected in their back pocket. Then it really was said that a similar solution had been found in the UK and, in that sense, it had been put into practice. But I'm sitting right here in the hall... In fact, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Raimond Kaljulaid pointed out that there is, in fact, a significantly different regime for the reception of war refugees in the UK compared to what is in Estonia. Mr Raimond Kaljulaid stated that in order to allow the Ukrainian war refugee to enter the UK, he must have a so-called host party there in the form of another UK citizen. As a result, I had the idea right here that perhaps in the UK, the state has no obligation to provide accommodation for war refugees for four months, for example, as is the case in the Estonian law, and therefore it may be based on such a second system that the state does not assume this responsibility, but that is the agreement that UK citizens do so, and in that case the state will compensate them for these expenses. In this sense, this comparison may not be complete [exact]. Finally, Toomas Kivimägi also mentioned that we certainly do not underestimate the challenges that Ukraine's war refugees face. He also expressed his opinion on the criticisms that the Commission had somewhat in its session, as war refugees were accommodated on ships, for example. If I'm not mistaken, the name of this ship was Isabelle. [There was a question] whether it was dignified or not. Personally, I found that there is no reason to be critical in this case; we ourselves travel with these same ships and sometimes spend the night below the waterline in some cabins. In this sense, the willingness to provide such accommodation should still be assessed. It is also important to present the position of the Government of the Republic, which in reality... I say once again that this bill is included in a noble objective and we do not deny the problems that are, but I think that what is most important is what the Government of the Republic has also expressed as its position. Firstly, according to the law already in force, the Government of the Republic has an obligation to provide accommodation both during the period of application for temporary international protection and for four months thereafter. This is the duty of the Government of the Republic. Including the Government of the Republic, it also compensates for expenses. The question is what happens after four months, when it's over four months. The second question is whether the Government of the Republic has found enough contractual partners to accommodate those war refugees or those who have received international protection. It is also very important that the beneficiary of international protection has the right to receive a state pension, family allowances, labour market services and labour market support, social benefits, health care services and other assistance on the basis of the same legal basis as Estonian citizens during his or her stay in Estonia. The same applies to the income support system: they also apply the income support system on exactly the same basis as Estonian citizens. Here again the idea outside the Commission's protocol that we actually have [such] people too. There was this show yesterday, too, if I'm not mistaken, maybe it was on TV3. In Pärnumaa, a mother with a small daughter with a considerable health disability does not have her own housing, she currently lives on a rental dwelling. The owner has decided to sell the house, [this mother] has nowhere to go, he finds no rental space anywhere. I do not want and it is not right to compare, but you can understand my idea that, of course, we must be generous with those war refugees who come from Ukraine, it is quite rightly stated that they are also fighting for our freedom, but it is not right to leave our own people, so to speak, below, who may have exactly the same concerns as Ukrainian refugees in war, that they will not find their own living space. Equal treatment is certainly important here as a principle. Finally, despite the fact that this draft has been written out of sincere will and goodwill, the Commission still decided, firstly, to put it on the plenary agenda on 31 May 2022, the decision was consensual, but secondly, unfortunately, the Commission proposed to reject the draft. It had 7 members: Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Tõnis Mölder, Paul Puustusmaa, Andrus Seed and Marko Storm. Eduard Odines opposed it. Thirdly, it was decided to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U211	Raimond Kaljulaid would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U212	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! I have a quiz question for you. Quote: "When I was in Toronto in 1992, I remember when I hosted war refugees. A model had been arranged by the state for families to accept asylum seekers and the state paid the families money for it. Today, many countries in the European Union do the same. Such a system should also be launched quickly in Estonia. " Who do you think is the well - known politician of the Reform Party, who is the author of this quote?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U213	Thank you, good Raimond! I dare say it's Mr. Andrus Ansip. But Andrus Ansip, whom I respect very much, is not a member of the Riigikogu today. Those decisions, how and how to proceed, must be made by us. Secondly, it is true that we are beginning to duplicate these systems somewhat. We're actually demoting the willingness to pay rent if anyone has such a chance. If we say that it is now free, right, or the state will pay for it, then actually those who are able to pay will not, of course, do so themselves. By doing so, we impose an unjustified additional burden on ourselves. For some people who are certainly unable to do so, this system would certainly work positively. Signe Kivi's question also made clear that we must not underestimate the willingness of the Estonian people to help Ukrainian war refugees in different ways free of charge. There are different ways. Now, if we can get to that, figuratively speaking, that I will give the rental space free of charge and the state will pay for it, then, forgive me if I have made a donation, then I could also tell the country to pay for my donation. It's maybe the same way his donation, his free will to help, free to do it. I know a lot of people in Pärnumaa who really do not expect or expect from the state when they have given their rent for Ukrainians, for war refugees, no money or support. Of course, it is not dominant; I totally agree with that. I think that the vast majority of those who are willing to offer rent still require a certain amount of revenue for offering rent to a Ukrainian war refugee. But once again: in this case, we are still demoting not to pay those who are able and willing to pay, all the more so as it is guaranteed by the system of income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U214	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! A little bit you actually answered my question. Indeed, there are two sides here, one is that we give this tenant the means to find his own space, the other is that we cover these costs for the landlord, and let's say, the tenant, you see, there's some way to find it. You opened it up a little bit, and I am also inclined towards this solution, that in fact we should rather give the tenant the opportunity and the freedom to decide for himself and then give some resources to cover these costs. Did you analyze it in more detail? Isn't there perhaps a problem here that this amount is too small, which is why landlords don't rent enough? Is this the subject that was discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U216	Thank you, good questioner! There was no debate on this point directly, but the principle of the bill, as I understand it, is that still this 210 euros per month is intended to be paid to the landlord, not to the tenant. The other side is, however, that when we talk about a system of income support ready to compensate for rent costs for those who do not have sufficient income or income, this does not mean that money is delivered. This rent payment must be able to be paid on its own, then it will receive the money back later through the so-called income support system. There really are two sides to the principle here. One is to give the money back. But once again I say: if you hand out 210 euros per month to all Ukrainian war refugees, it is obviously much more expensive than this bill here. In this sense, I think, once again, that we should not apply this system of income support differently, with all due respect for all Ukrainian war refugees and our own citizens. In this sense, I think it is the main postulate why my opinion is different from that of Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U217	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U218	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I'm still mad at you. I think we're talking about a lot of different things. Just in case, we're not talking about a rental relationship, a tenant or a landlord here, we're talking about giving up for free. That's a whole other thing. We can motivate Ukrainian refugees to take their apartments from the rental market, but also the originator's waitress repeatedly and repeatedly stressed: these apartments simply do not exist. These, which are, are not even available to the people of Estonia at their own cost, let alone refugees. As far as donations are concerned, the state also motivates the making of donations because it offers income tax incentives to people who donate. The main argument, as I understand it, is that the existing system, the income support and the free space offered by the state should, just as it should solve this problem. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But wouldn't it be cheaper to provide support to the person who gives free housing than to pay income support and other such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U219	Thank you, very respectable questioner. Starting at the end of everything: I don't think so. It really isn't, if you hand it over right now. Rather through the support system, we all understand it, it's less expensive, isn't it? There is probably more bureaucracy and so on, but if we give everyone, I don't know, 40,000 Ukrainian war refugees per family EUR 210 per month, right, it is obviously more expensive, that is not the question. Secondly, Eduard, it is indeed a question of choice. Maybe Raimond will enlighten us about this UK system a little bit longer. One possibility is that the state does not take on such an obligation as we are legally obliged to provide accommodation for a person who has been granted international protection within four months. If the State does not assume this obligation, then there is another system, it is that we pay to a private person or to an entrepreneur the money for which he rents the space and in such a case the other party does not have to pay for it for four months or longer. So it's a matter of system choice. I dare to claim that the obligation under the Estonian law on granting international protection to an alien, both at the time of the application for international protection and, if necessary, for up to four months, to provide accommodation has been assumed by the Estonian state and must comply with that obligation. Of course, I agree, if he does not fulfil this obligation, then Oudekki Loone also used such claims at the Constitutional Committee session of the state should pay a fine. If the State is unable to fulfil this obligation itself, there is indeed a case that should be discussed separately. I certainly do not dare to claim that everything has found a hundred percent solution, probably far from it, but the vast majority sooner or later have found a solution. Eduard, I seriously disagree: even if it is free of charge, if a Ukrainian war refugee or a person who has received international protection uses this space, it still requires a rental relationship, a rental contract. Either way, it does. I don't think any private owner dares, dares [other], I don't know, [because the tenant] finally breaks something up there or whatever, you know, there are different cases, and then you don't have a contract, you have nothing, you volunteered. So here, as a lawyer, I dare say that this rent may also be zero, but the lease as such should be in any case, in one case or another. In that case, either the tenant pays it himself or the State has paid the owner the money. There should definitely be a rental contract or a rental relationship. I admitted and admitted that your comment is absolutely correct in this sense, that I think that our market was certainly not ready for the additional demand that has been brought about by Ukrainian war refugees. I totally agree with the fact that we don't have enough apartments at that price. Of course, there are always a number of apartments on the market, but most of them may not be available, especially for war refugees, given their income. Our market was not ready for that. But the question in itself is how many additional doors or additional rental spaces could be opened by this measure. We are now saying that the state will pay for this within six months. But don't know what happens after six months, then the [tenant] should start paying for himself, but maybe he doesn't pay, etc. I fully agree that some amount of additional rental space will be placed on the market when it becomes a law, but I do not think it will change this paradigm and come thousands of additional [surfaces]. As I said, a lot of people have opened their homes or cottages for free in order to show solidarity with the Ukrainians and thank them for what they are doing there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U220	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I also think, as a lawyer and not even as a lawyer, that a rental contract is important when you get children to school or kindergarten and when a person goes to work, when you receive taxes. But the part of the donations has already been dealt with here: 20% will come back if it is entered in the register, and you can donate it again, here the country pays to some extent. My question concerns whether there was also a debate in the Commission on how many areas there are in the municipalities and how many people are in real trouble. Would it not have been possible, however, to have this draft read again before it was rejected, to work in the meantime, and to examine how the local authorities are coping with this task? Our bill has been filed on 24 March. March 24th! At the time, the problem was very big. We know that it is only now in the municipalities, also in Viljandi in particular, that the administrative contracts which were then sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs to the municipalities will go to the councils. Would it not have been reasonable to ask for the real state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U222	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen. Firstly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs cannot reject one draft; it is still the decision of the large hall. The Commission will take its decision, but it is not binding on the large hall, the large hall can vote any way. Secondly, I say very honestly that there really was no very detailed debate on the state of play in the Commission. I think you are also right in the fact that, compared to the time you submitted the draft, the situation that is today, I dare say, despite the fact that the number of refugees has gone up so-called upright in the meantime, is actually much clearer and better. Once again, I say that it cannot be expected that such a number of war refugees will be prepared to arrive in a short time. In this sense, I think that today's situation is significantly better than it was at the time when this draft was presented. If you fish a little bit, maybe this problem has already been resolved, which you wanted to raise by presenting this bill. Certainly not entirely, we still read these things in the press once or twice a week. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, or sometimes those reasons why a Ukrainian war refugee does not find a place to live, are not even in money, but in something else, as I have noticed. It's very painful to read, but the reality is that by the end of the day, the owner will choose and decide to whom he rents the dwelling or not. There are examples of this. There are very different reasons why Ukrainian war refugees do not find the necessary rental space in normal times.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U223	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In this sense, I am as optimistic as you and I believe in the people of Estonia. You're gonna be happy that everyone who's taken can do it. But, you know, life is really that at one point whether you need your child's apartment where you've taken the Ukrainian refugee now or something else, and these people are not gonna be there forever, in the sense that they won't stay there. In this sense, the problem that you thought had gotten better has actually got worse. We are increasingly in a situation where refugees need to find a permanent place to live, but there are no [living areas] already. I have not heard this discussion here, so that the government has a plan. Didn't you even ask or research? You were only looking at the draft narrowly, but you didn't even try to solve the problem in the wider Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U225	Thank you, very respectable questioner. No, we were still trying to solve it in the Commission. I guess we talked to Signe Riisalo about this. Once again, he also admits that, of course, there are problems that have not been solved, but still very many things have improved. To a good colleague, Helmen. He referred to these management contracts. Indeed, this is also a place where there is still a proper need today. These agreements are not as many as they could and should be. I think this, too, is a process that certainly needs to be accelerated. But I think maybe making this first contract is the hardest thing, after that, it'll get easier. So I really hope that these contracts will come, well, either by the dozens or by the tens, but there could be 10 or 20 contracts between the municipalities and the Social Insurance Board, and there should definitely be. We should definitely move in this direction. Of course, good Lauri, you are right in that sense that if the four months, which is the responsibility of the state, are to be filled for many, then it is really up to the war refugee to find his own living space. In that sense, your comment is correct. Of course, you don't build new apartments that fast. However, the market will eventually have the capacity to respond to demand. In the sense that if there is additional demand, it will certainly create additional space for the rental market. I don't build a new house in four months, but let's say someone finds a way, because there's demand, to make an extra profit. So that's the way I believe it. Let's look at this absolute number. There must have been an example of whether there were 16,000 dwellings in Tallinn or 16,000 in Estonia. [[A voice from the hall.]] How? Yeah, 1600, sorry! 1600 dwellings, this was the example of Tallinn, right, there is a market. But once again, I admit that 90% of them are obviously not affordable for Ukrainian war refugees, so that is certainly a problem. But once again, the biggest problem I see is that we duplicate it. We have this income support mechanism. If this is not enough, I will say indeed, as Heiki Hepner asked, that if it does not provide an opportunity to rent, because there are simply not so cheap apartments on the market that would fit into this maintenance allowance's repair, then there would really be an additional need to put more money in it so that it would be possible to rent more expensive apartments than in the rental market at a price that could also be covered by income support funds, [possible to rent] is not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U226	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U227	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You said twice that this refugee would get EUR 210.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U228	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U229	I guess it was just a technical mistake. I'm asking you to specify for the sake of the verbatim. If you read in § 1 of this bill, who is the person to whom this support is intended to remain the person to whom it is intended? Question two. You're talking about duplication. Would you, please, tell me which support measure is more precisely duplicated, which support measure today is intended for the person who gives the refugee a living space? What kind of duplication are you talking more about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U230	Thank you, good questioner! When you listened to me carefully, [you know that] when I answered Mr Heiki Hepner, I made it very clear that this EUR 210 was meant for the owner of the dwelling. I was very clear, so if you listened to me carefully, you know. That's another thing. Yeah, it's just a little bit of speech. Let's just say that we're creating a parallel system next to this system, which actually exists and works. There is an effective income support mechanism, which also allows for the cost of rent to be taken into account. Now we're going to create some kind of parallel system, some kind of different system that goes out of this sort of income support mechanism. Then the question arises as to how we will begin to rake these other costs, which can be covered by this income support mechanism, because we have cut one piece out of it. We impose such an unjustified administrative burden on ourselves and then this system of income support no longer applies to them. So in this sense, we're creating a parallel system. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I say that, in my opinion, the biggest substantive problem really is that we do not have enough apartments on the rental market at this price to offer this number of international protection to the refugees who are in Estonia. That's the biggest problem. But I don't see that this bill will solve this problem radically either. Once again, this EUR 210 for the owner is not too much money either, firstly, and secondly, it is for six months. He still does not dare [to do so] if he hesitates whether or not he rents his property. This six-month guaranteed rent may not be enough to take on this risk or burden. Yeah, I'll tell you again, it'll make it very difficult. But I'd think a little differently to cut those who get rent support out of the entire income support mechanism. But I don't know if it's better or not, okay? Secondly, once again, this is an administratively huge and incomprehensible burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U231	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U232	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You wanted to make a bit of a goat or make me look stupid, saying that the Commission is not rejecting, is still rejecting the big hall. If the Commission had proposed ending the first reading, I would have been quite sure that only the Reform Party would have voted against, but others would have agreed to completing the first reading. So, in fact, the Commission made such a proposal and the hall decides, that is true. Now for income support. I have had the opportunity to ask you twice today, from the Minister of Finance and now from you. However, there are certain limits and standards for the calculation of income support that the local government sets, and they do not compensate for higher rent costs than the established standard for the local government. If the four months of the state's obligation to secure the ground has ended, and the refugee has to find the ground himself, plus six months, if he has not found it within four months or has not yet been employed, then in any case there is hope that within this six months he may be able to work and pay for himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U233	Thank you, very respectable questioner. I have to respect you so much, Helmen, I certainly don't want to give you any goats in this hall. Far from it. I guess we've been alone before, not until recently with some drafts, but luckily now we're not alone, now you're with us. In this sense, yes, I admit that, and I also mentioned that the problem is rather that there are no rental apartments on the market at the price that would fall under this income support mechanism, so that it would be possible to rent them. That's a problem. I say once again, and this is not a promise, it is just my thought here today, that if there are too many people for whom this is a problem, then it is better to think, indeed, whether, exceptionally, the income support mechanism should be put in place, also considering that simply offers are not at the price that would allow these costs to be covered by the income support mechanism. This needs to be seriously assessed. At the same time, we all believe, and we really hope, that this figure can and should not go up very much. However, the problem really is that, if four months is the responsibility of the state to ensure, then the number of people who have to start finding their own rental space will increase. In this sense, this is not the final solution at all. But once again, I am absolutely convinced that today's government will really do everything in its power to solve the problem of war refugees. I think we have been generous enough as a country, as a parliament and also as a government. Of course, there may be governments that do not think or think that way, but at least we certainly do not leave [the Ukrainians] alone. They also fight for the security and freedom of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U234	Helmen Hunter has developed a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U235	I don't have a third question anymore. I'm just saying, with the procedure, you, a good colleague, I really like you, too. [[The excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U236	Thank you, Helmen!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U237	It really wasn't procedural. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U238	But it was beautiful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. In this sense, I do think that war refugees must be dealt with, they must be helped, but also those people, Estonians who have actually in some ways come to the aid of society, the state, must be thanked. This is not happening now, and that is, in my opinion, a problem. That's not for those who have offered their apartments. In this sense, you are undoubtedly right that the market is responding to demand, and we can see that, rents go up and climb up like this, so that, like our people, Ukrainians are unable to get normal housing at a normal price. That's a pretty big problem. Unfortunately, the market reacts exactly that way. But maybe you, I don't know, in the coalition... It's a good government, you've always praised it. Enlighten yourself. What's the plan? So far, we haven't heard it anywhere in this big hall or any committee. So what's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U240	Thank you, dear questioner. Indeed, if demand increases, there are two sides. If there is a shortage, it means that prices go up. But the other side is, if there's demand, there's often a bigger offer, some distance of time. If there is a chance that this is a business, then there will be additional offers, but in the short term, in the first run rents may indeed go up. But the reasons why rents go up are a whole bunch of others, too. I daresay the country will not leave them on the street. I rather think that if the country has its own rental premises that can be accommodated, it would be very foolish to leave these surfaces empty because four months have been full. This is now my own interpretation of what one possible option might be: in that case, it will not necessarily push out of there, but it will still make it possible to be where they were for the four months, which is the responsibility of the state to ensure, in reality. This is one possible solution, because I certainly think that if the state's obligation, this time, is full, then these surfaces will be so-called empty parts on a contractual basis, but it is not reasonable to leave them empty and leave the Ukrainians on the street, but rather they will still be able to continue there under more favourable conditions, perhaps in some sense. This, for example, is one thing I am certainly prepared to discuss with Signe Riisalo. I don't know if they've discussed it or not, but I think it makes a lot of sense. Once again, when it's four months old, you'll have to leave the soil offered by the country. Of course, they are not all on the surface of the state, so to speak, the state has made some kind of agreement with a private company or some local government or whatever. But once again: it is not reasonable to leave these surfaces empty and at the same time [hike] the Ukrainians on the street, if they are not actually able to obtain an independent rental contract on the private market, find rental space. It could be one of those ideas that I'm going to convey to Signe in any case, and we're considering it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U241	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U242	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, Thomas! I listened to your report in the room. I understand there's a problem, there's a problem with these rentals. We have offered one solution. Maybe that doesn't make sense. You also admitted that, in fact, this solution may not be the worst, but, let's say, it would suffer to go on with that solution. Now I have a question. The Commission's decision to end the first reading was in favour of Eduard, and the rest were all opposed. If there is a problem, the problem can be solved by a bill, which can be improved here in the Riigikogu proceedings, to propose amendments, the ambassador can make them, you can do them yourself, both the political group and the Commission can propose amendments, the government can still propose amendments through the committee. Then why don't we do it? Why are we rejecting it at first reading? Is it just because the initiators are Social Democrats and Raimond Kaljulaid?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U243	Thank you, good Squid! Starting with the last one: definitely not. I think next week there will be a bill, a government bill, linked to the opposition party's draft, put together, etc. I'm always in this mind to get out of the way often to admit that if you had a cool idea, it's not polite to hijack this idea, I don't know, so the government comes with their idea and then leaves you out like that. I certainly don't think that's right. Why, in fact, I think, did the Commission make such a decision? It was for this reason that we can talk about this fundamental solution, and if we are also talking about amendments, then we should follow this fundamental solution. The question is rather, point one: we do not deny that there is a problem. Perhaps once again: the rental market does not have enough affordable apartments to solve the problem of the rental of war refugees. But the second thing is, I find, as I said above, that I dare not think, like this solution, the fundamental solution you offer, would bring hundreds of additional apartments to the rental market to solve this problem. That's my point. We're not going to build any more apartments, figuratively speaking, so we're going to provide the owner with rent in six months, right? That's the principle. I certainly think that 10, 20, 30, I don't know, maybe 50 apartments would come to the market because of this bill, but that doesn't solve this problem, which is much bigger than that. The question is, Kalvi, that this fundamental solution doesn't... Once again, like I said, it's still some kind of... We're setting up an AS. It was said at the Commission meeting that we are actually going to blur the rental market a little bit with this and so on. It is rather a matter of this fundamental solution, not of denying the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U244	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U245	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the amount of income support that varies greatly between municipalities. Does this amount still cover all the utilities? What advice would you give to refugees that you would advise their owners to cope with?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U246	Thank you, dear questioner. As mentioned above, he may not be covered. We have just said that the main problem is that there are no [residence areas] at a price that would be acceptable, which would fit under the so-called principles of income support, that they are not enough. That's the main problem. As I said, rather, it is only my own personal idea and my opinion should, in such cases, still consider, for example, the possible possible compensation of rent costs by means of the income support mechanism, where there is a great deal of such cases. Very simply, we must not go to change it. You have always stood up for the people of Estonia, for all the people of Estonia. In this case, we must not create, forgive, an unequal situation for those people who have exactly the same concerns, these are our own citizens, who are not war refugees. We have, I think, forgive, hundreds, perhaps thousands of families in Estonia, who have exactly the same problems as war refugees: they cannot rent apartments on the market at the price of what they have to offer, and they do not know where they live. You see, this is a bit of a sensitive place. If I said we didn't have any problems, okay, well, then that's not the issue, but we also have [such] people. That is why I am in favour of a common scheme, a unified approach. Perhaps in this case there could indeed be an additional possibility to cover additional rental costs, rather this way. I don't know, we'll put 100 euros on it, if there's any way to add it to the support mechanism, if it's necessary to cover rent, maybe so. We get half as cheap, figuratively speaking, if there is your bill, right, and at the same time maybe we can solve the problem or reduce the problem. Then there will be a number of additional apartments on the market that [these people] are capable of and willing to rent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U247	No further questions. Now let's go to the negotiations. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U248	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been mentioned repeatedly in the round of questions and answers, the problem of hosting mothers fleeing the Ukrainian war with children remains acute and continues to be high. This was great on 24 March when the Social Democrats submitted their draft to support apartment owners who offer their living space free of charge to war refugees, and this problem is continuing. We see every day in the media how the rent market anomalies pressure people in Estonia, not only the war refugees, but also other Estonian people, in all regions. However, our draft is aimed at war refugees and as an additional measure, not as a side or a parallel measure, but as an alternative measure, if it can be called that way, in order to provide additional support to those people who, completely free of charge, give their living space [for refugees to use] and, in so doing, bear the costs, whether or not simply public utility costs, which may not be very low and are constantly increasing. It is quite rightly stated that we must think about all the people of Estonia and all the people who live in Estonia. Of course, it is very supported by the Social Democrats. We really hope that whatever government we have at some point, he will seriously think about these aid measures, how to support the people of Estonia in paying for living, both for utilities and for other costs. But this measure, currently provided by the Social Democrats, is linked to war refugees and is a temporary measure that is intended for so long, as long as we have refugees here. Because both the wishes of the refugees themselves and probably the dream of all of us is that they will still return to their homeland, return to their home towns and villages, restore their homeland, and the Estonian state will help them with their restoration. That is why it is not a side measure, it is not a substitute for anything. This is an alternative, complementary measure that supports the owners of the dwelling. There has been a great deal of talk here about the existence of a system of income support that helps refugees pay their bills, so that they can sign a contract with EUR 0 and on the utilities side, this income support will come. But we know very well, because many of us are very involved in several municipalities, that these rules, rates and amounts of income support are very different. I've got a bank account statement for a war refugee, from EUR 0, just as it got open in Swedbank, until today. And what I see is all his expenses and expenses. The housing bill was 197 euros for April, while the income support from Kohtla-Järve City Government was 39 euros 41 cents. That's it. The question is, isn't it how this income support helps pay for this rent? No, it's not helping. I also see other benefits here on the account statement: unemployment fund allowance EUR 226. For a total period of one month, this particular family, the mother and her child will have 50 euros. And we are talking about systems in Estonia being created. Of course, I completely admit that we probably also have regular Estonian families, perhaps several thousands, who are not enough to support their livelihoods in the same way. This specific draft, by which the Social Democrats come out to amend the [international] protection [grant] law], is aimed at only one target group, a temporary measure. But, of course, we must all continue, regardless of the coalition or opposition [being], to think very seriously about how all Estonian families can cope. On behalf of the Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, please do not support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reject the draft. I ask you to support the direction of the draft to second reading so that we can smooth out all these maybe problematic and questionable places in this draft together to help the war refugees to cope in Estonia as long as they are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U249	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 564 at first reading. That is what we must vote on, and first we will do the hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing with the draft law amending the law on granting international protection to an alien initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid and the proposal of the commission to reject this draft at first reading. I shall put to the vote the rejection of the draft proposal at first reading 564. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U250	There are 58 delegates in favour of the rejection proposal, 9 against. The bill is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U251	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the language law initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. I would like a member of the Riigikogu, Lauri Läänemets, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Quite a few Ukrainian war refugees have reached Estonia. This is not ordinary immigration, it is an extraordinary situation caused by war. The people who come to Estonia as refugees have not been chosen by the Estonian people or by Estonian society and have not chosen the Ukrainians who come here. But they're here, and it's safe that they stay here for a while. We have all hoped, we all want these people to be able to go to their homeland as soon as possible. But we can see that the war is going on. The war is going on and on about the destruction of Ukrainian cities. These cities, which are destroyed and where housing is lost, are not small cities, but very large cities. Maybe a lot of people don't have a place to go back. This is a serious problem. This is a serious problem for people who have fled the war and, in fact, a major challenge for Estonian society. It has effects. It will undoubtedly have negative effects on everyone, both those who have come here and those who live here in Estonia. It should be up to Parliament and the government to mitigate these effects or prevent any problems arising. There are certain problems that we are about to encounter. First of all, the conditions for working in Estonia are very important, which are self-evident and very logical and should be. One of the requirements of these terms is that in many positions you must speak Estonian. I think it's the right thing, it has to be, and it must never change. The problem is that in a large number of disciplines where we have this language requirement, this prevents war refugees from taking up their jobs. In itself, it seems as if there is no problem, let them go and do something else. Well, one way or another, I'd say, in a way, it's a question of dignity; a person doesn't just have to push a patch when he's a highly educated specialist in some specialty, he could do a professional job. But on the other hand, it affects the livelihood of the Estonian people living here, quite directly, if we direct all war refugees to do jobs where there are no language requirements. We all know that these jobs are rather simpler and rather those where less pay is paid. I've been talking to different analysts. For example, economics say that if 10,000 Ukrainian refugees go to work on these cheaper jobs or less paid jobs and easier jobs, there would not be a problem, but if it goes over 10,000 and 15,000, it will affect whether the Estonian person gets such a job. Look, if we all Ukrainians push there, those people who earn a small salary in Estonia will not get a job at one point, because these jobs will simply be taken away. There are people who are in trouble, they are willing to work with cheaper wages, and this affects the people of Estonia very strongly. On the other hand, we have quite a few countries in Europe that have been exposed to large waves of refugees or immigration, such as Norway. Norway's experience is very simple: if there is a very large number of migrant workers coming into one sector in a short time, the wage increase in this sector will stop. Not entirely, but it's still completely low. This means that we risk managing a lot of Estonian people in the sense that prices are going to be more expensive. You could raise your salary, but the supply of labour in these sectors is so high that there is no need for employers to raise their wages. Of course, the employer is having a good time, but what are those people who work there doing? This is a very big concern for us. Another major concern is that, in fact, even though we have language requirements, people [who do not speak] also work where these language requirements are. This means that the law is not actually being enforced. We have objectives, we have discussed this in the Commission, and otherwise we have held it in public. I hear the answers that, you know, it's okay, the Language Board is going to make an order and these people will learn the language one day, but let them break the law today. I don't understand it. How do we agree that we have a law, we have principles, it concerns learning the Estonian language, and then we say yes, let the law be broken? In fact, it is a problem that really exists, a real breach of law, and it is satisfied, it is like normal. I understand it shouldn't be like this. That is also why we have presented this bill. The content of this bill is simple. We provide the opportunity for the Ukrainian war refugees who have come here to work for up to two years on condition that they learn Estonian at the same time. We will not apply the requirements of the Estonian language. This means that they do not break the law, we do not all have to play such a great patriot of the Estonian language here and at the same time say that let it be, the Language Board makes some kind of precept. They're not breaking the law, it's just a situation like it is now. The second thing that this means is that they get into professional employment, we reduce the tension and pressure on the livelihood of our people, which I think is very important. Third thing. You know, there is a very big difference between whether a person works in an Estonian-language environment or in a non-Estonian environment. In today's situation, we may force these people to work in the situation, force them to a great deal where there is no working environment in Estonian around them. It has long been established that immersion and immersion at work is a very important matter. This contributes greatly to language learning. Perhaps what we Social Democrats are proposing is that those people who come to Estonia until the end of this year should be given the opportunity to work here for up to two years without applying the language requirements to them, but if they learn the Estonian language. We want to direct them more towards immersion and we want to avoid a situation where people here can be put at risk, because we only direct a great deal of refugees from one period of time to certain specialties. I repeat: the problem is that these are not just certain areas where they come into being, but are areas where low wages are concerned. Perhaps this effect, the negative effect is significantly greater. But thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U253	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In a way, it was quite surprising to hear your report. So far, soccer has always been [the other] mind. In the past, we have been talking about the economic refugee in particular, the Ukrainians certainly do not belong to this category, and they have really come here because of the brutal aggression of Russia. But the people are here, and now you're still telling us that the job is being taken away from our people and the wages are being suppressed. It is, of course, a good thing to hear from the socialists, but I hope that this can be taken into account in future debates. But I'm asking you how it feels if you still go to a doctor or medical professional who doesn't speak Estonian during this two years, what would be the options? I don't think you'd want to get into a situation where you don't understand and you're gonna be treated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U255	Thank you. That's the right question, and I'd be happy to answer that. First of all, on this point, I would say that there would be no problem if they could spread across different sectors and jobs. But we're actually pushing them into certain specialties, certain areas of life where this language requirement isn't so strong. Now that's a problem, and there's this effect. If they dissipated everywhere, the effect wouldn't be so great. Economic analysts say that our economy needs a lot of work, there are very many unfilled jobs. As regards, for example, working as a doctor, I do not want to be served by a doctor who does not understand what he is doing or what my problem is. That is why we have not proposed abolishing the employer's obligation; the employer's responsibility remains. The service must ensure that it is available in Estonian. I am not an expert, and I am not going to speak on behalf of medical staff. I just remember it being said that there are people in the hospital, for example, who only need to be cared for, sometimes need to talk more, sometimes not. This job can be done by a Ukrainian refugee or by other such things. But the point is that the employer's responsibility remains, and we do not want to lose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U256	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U257	Thank you, Mr. [Deputy] Chairman. Good Lauri! We know that we still have thousands of people working in positions where language requirements are prescribed, but they do not meet these requirements in the medical sector, the education sector, the service sector and everywhere else. Do you, as one of the authors of this bill, have information, data, what it's like now? We know that Ukrainians work in very different positions. Are they now subject to such a tolerant attitude, or are they taking a different approach? What about meeting language requirements at the moment? With this amendment to the language law, do we legitimise the lack of language?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U258	Thank you. I would dare say that, in a pretty interesting way, there's a pretty tolerant attitude. If the requirements are not met, no fine shall be imposed immediately. But really, I have to admit that we also have a school principal in Tallinn who has done it for a very long time, and somehow he still has... Well, for so long, I can't believe it. We have a law to uphold, but somehow we can. But we are not going to alleviate the language requirements in this sense, rather to alleviate this situation. As for the people who live here who have lived in Estonia for a long time, but who may not speak Estonian as well, speak Russian or in another language, by the way, in some ways, as interesting as it may be, it also alleviates their situation. Not that they can do anything without complying with the requirements of the Estonian language, but if we think again about which area or place you want to go to, where there are no language requirements, then obviously those people who do not speak Estonian are already working where we are pushing the Ukrainians. In some ways, we also reduce this problem so that their jobs can be put at risk. Yes, we are not directly mitigating the concerns of the people already living here with this bill, and that is not the purpose of this bill, but we are indirectly mitigating the problem of these people that we are pushing very many refugees who have come here into these sectors or those areas where they work. In that sense, it gives them a little relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U259	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! It really is now, as you even said, that we have such a practice that the language inspectorate, when he controls and discovers people who do not know enough of that language, makes an injunction. As a general rule, he has the right to consider these reasons, to give time, but if there is already a repeat case, he has to impose a penalty and so on. Could your [draft] now mean that if it is two years old and the person who has come here has not acquired the language, it would not be the language inspection practice that applies to him, or would it simply be a bonus or a bonus in addition to today's practice, or how would this practice of today and your draft connect?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U261	Thanks for asking. I don't, I don't. I mean, I don't. Our goal is not that you can live here for a long time, but you do not have to contribute to learning the Estonian language. On the contrary, we are trying to create a situation where people are forced to... I don't know, "sunned" may be bad to say, but people are significantly more motivated to learn Estonian, and we're trying to create opportunities for them to get into a so-called immersion environment so that they can learn the language much faster. Rather, that is our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U262	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U263	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You are certainly familiar with the fact that, while the country is still organising the procurement of language teaching, which has not yet arrived or is soon to come, the city of Viljandi itself has started to provide language training to Ukrainian war refugees with its own resources. One team's already finished, and they've been looking for money as a follow-up team. People want to learn the language. This bill is because if everything was perfect and there was a way to get this language training for public funds, we would not have this problem, but we do not have this opportunity. I very much welcome these local governments, I know that Saaremaa and many others have begun to do this because they cannot wait. People want to go to work, but you need to speak the language. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U264	Thank you for that question. By the way, in this sense, all those who want to learn Estonian must be praised. Honestly, you've come from a difficult situation, you want to go back, but you'll still find that opportunity and motivation. All those municipalities who come to help train and take the initiative to resolve this issue must be commended. That's very right. As far as I am concerned, we have such a situation that today, language learning from the state is the first to be provided by quite a number of Ukrainians who are working or going to work as a teacher. They're already getting it, they're in these trainings. Language training has already been introduced in these very critical and refugee-related positions as well. As far as this procurement is concerned, I think the first study should begin from the beginning of July, and if I remember [rightly], there are 1000 people there, I think there were 1000 people at the beginning. I just checked with the Ministry about 1,000 people. For the rest of us, this opportunity will arise in so-called pieces, but it will take time. We continue to have this proposal with this idea. At first we also considered the draft, we had an idea for one year, but when we asked the Language Board how long it would take to learn the Estonian language, it was probably that A1 and A2 would take about 240 hours, essentially a year or almost a year. I understand that a lot of people are better at doing it faster. But it's just, if we count it in there, that you need to get into training first, and if you don't have these trainings, it's gonna take more time. That's why it's been two years, not one year. We would also be happy to have a year, but it makes sense to make proposals that are realistic, not going anywhere halfway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U265	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U266	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, Practical example: A few days ago, I went to Kristiine Center, went there, a lady of my age came to the door, almost tears in her eyes, and said that the devil can't go to the store anymore, because I can't ask in Estonian anymore. How is this law in this context now? I very much agree that people should learn the Estonian language, and a great deal of recognition for those who learn it. But if they can work nicely for two years, for example, right there at the Kristiine Centre, and our language environment is already like this? What do we say to our people when they can no longer cope in Estonian at the store, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U267	Thank you for that question. On this point, I also said earlier, that that is why we have not proposed to alleviate the requirements imposed on the employer. The employer must ensure that Kristiine Keskus is guaranteed today, and when this bill comes into force, it should ensure that when a person needs service in Estonian, he must receive it. That wish, or that thing, we don't want to lose. Of course, we have some areas where it is not possible to manage, if you do not have a service in Estonian, but there are many jobs in certain places that can be done, you do not come into contact with customers. But today must be complied with, and our bill must also be complied with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U268	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U269	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I have a question about how far it extends, talking about applicants for international protection. In the sense that we are not only talking about refugees from Ukraine, we are talking about a broader ampoua, society, if it is topical today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U270	Thank you for your question. We have been thinking here of those people who have come to Estonia because of the Ukrainian war. Yes, there will also be other refugees in Estonia, but they will not come in that volume. The truth is that the state cannot begin to sort people out, that a war refugee in one country is somehow, I don't know, more important than a war refugee in another country. But in principle, this is not the situation in Estonia today, and there has never been a need for such drafts or initiatives, because there would have been such major problems with another war that would have led refugees to come here. But really, tens of thousands of people have come from Ukraine to live here, this problem is real and it actually affects the livelihood of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U271	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U272	Thank you. Here today, several times [talking], also in the case of the previous draft law, there has already been this huge cross-Estonian visit by the Socialist Group, where very many people met in very many regions. Apparently, this problem of employment and language learning and language skills has arisen in many places. Can you give some examples of the same visit as the one that copes with this concern? Or can't you do it, and you need the kind of measures that this bill offers? What happens if we do not do this law or if, for example, we reject this law in Parliament today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U273	Thank you for that question. The concern is that there will be no relief for war refugees, first of all, for today's order or for today's law. They don't learn Estonian in their sleep, that is, they break the law, the Language Board gives them precepts, and we say it's okay. I don't think it's okay. In my opinion, if we have this situation, we will say: yes, we have this situation, we understand, we will give people the opportunity to get to better jobs in terms of immersion and we will try to do better on this issue. It's like one thing. Another thing, as has been said, is that he is affecting and, in the end, he is forcing the war refugees who have come here to go to jobs where there are no such language requirements. There are not enough of these jobs in Estonia to produce this negative effect so that it will affect the incomes of people here. If someone wants to change jobs like this, then maybe they've already found an employee, it's a lot easier to find employees there and [this person] won't get a job anymore. All these problems are starting. We seek to avoid these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U274	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Lauri! Definitely a very necessary exception. At the same time, it is important that war refugees begin to learn Estonian immediately. How do you feel that the steps that today's government has taken to enable war refugees to learn the Estonian language have been sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U276	Thank you. By the way, I think there's been a very good response in this sense. Unfortunately, procurement takes time, public procurement. After all, here we have held several debates on the various so-called crisis needs procurements and asked and spoken in Question Time. After all, it has taken some time to procure language learning. I'd rather say it's kind of a problem for such extraordinary events. There could be some kind of legislative solution. But the willingness to teach and train 10,000 people, I think, is in the right direction. The problems are not related at all to language learning, but we are talking about other problems that revolve around it. You have to learn this language at one point, but so far there are a lot of lawbreakers, which we accept today, which is no okay thing, and it has an impact on this labour market. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U277	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U278	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, You repeatedly say that people who have been recruited without language skills violate the law. But I don't know if you've read the language law properly. Paragraph 28 (3) of this section states that the language official must give the employee sufficient time to learn the Estonian language. If this is a B1 level language proficiency, it is considered that it will take two to three years. In what cases do you mean this violation? People can still get into certain occupations without the knowledge of the Estonian language, but they must learn the Estonian language. That's what the Ukrainians are doing right now. What's the real problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U279	Thank you. We also want them to get as much professional work as possible. You see, the problem is that they cannot go there, the practical life of Estonia is that they cannot go there. There are reasonable people in one place, there will be a response, of course there will be other problems, but there will be reasonable ones and will be met, there will be a way to cope, but there will be no other places. We have built our language policy according to the logic that you have to learn Estonian when you have to speak Estonian in this job, when you do not know it, you actually break the law. The Language Board simply makes a precept, after all, the Language Board goes to that person and states: "You do not speak Estonian and you receive an injunction. " This is the practice, what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U280	Thank you. No further questions. I ask Margit Sutrop, member of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U281	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased to introduce you to the debate in the Committee on Culture on the relevant draft law on 12 May. The members of the committee, Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Lauri Läänemets, who was then Jaak Juske's alternate member, Kristen Michal Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's alternate member, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge and Marko Šorin, and there was no Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. Margit Kiin, Legal Adviser to the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Ilmar Tomusk, Director-General of the Language Board, had also been invited to the discussion on this point. There was a very long debate. I'm not going to sum up what Lauri West Forest already said. He also spoke at the meeting of the Commission. I start with where Margit Kiin, Legal Adviser to the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, introduced the position of the Government of the Republic not to support the proposed draft. The reason was that the general and uniform abolition of the requirement of Estonian language proficiency for two years in respect of all posts and for a large group of foreigners, as formulated in the draft, is not justified or in line with the objective of the draft. The government considers that it does not contribute to the adaptation and self-sufficiency of foreigners in Estonia. The target group is all foreigners, regardless of their country of origin and whether they have been identified as a need for international protection, and the so wide target group does not match the target group in the explanatory memorandum, which is, in fact, what we heard from Lauri Läänemets, the war refugees who arrived in Estonia, specifically Ukrainian war refugees. But now, with the draft to define a narrower group to allow Ukrainian war refugees to enter the labour market as soon as possible, the Government of the Republic also sees this as a problem. The greatest risk is the two-year exemption from the language requirement. This distinction is accompanied by a specific feature which is inevitably linked to the country of origin and nationality and on the basis of which the special treatment group would be different from everyone else. This may, however, cause resentment for workers who speak different languages from the Estonian language, who are not exempt from the language requirement, and may create unnecessary tensions and also a repulsive attitude towards war refugees, which is clearly not the aim of the drafters. The law on granting international protection to a foreigner provides that work on the basis of international protection procedures or temporary protection is generally not permitted at the time of application for a residence permit. It becomes questionable whether the exemption of applicants for international protection from the requirement to know Estonian is even appropriate and how it will help to return to the labour market in the future. The second target group of the draft is the beneficiary of international protection. According to the law, the beneficiary of the protection is obliged to participate in the study of Estonian from the age of 18 to the age of old age. The question now arises as to the feasibility of the efforts and costs of language learning, if a person does not have to learn Estonian for two years, even in the case of positions where according to the regulation the mandatory language level is A2. So the main problem is that the author of the draft has not taken into account the requirements for the use of the language, has also not taken into account the fact that the temporary exemption of an employee from the language requirement does not exempt an entrepreneur from the requirement of the Language Act and the Consumer Protection Act to provide information and service to clients in Estonian. This means that someone must ensure service in Estonian and this is probably a burden on Estonian or Estonian-speaking workers. The title of the section is "Temporary non-application of the requirements for the knowledge and use of Estonian language" and the provision refers to the temporary non-application of the requirement for the knowledge of Estonian language. The requirement to use Estonian has not been taken into account. Thus, in the view of the Government of the Republic, all problems with the labour market [accompanying] can also be solved within the framework of the current language law. At the meeting of the Commission, Signe Kivi asked that the proposed amendment is incomprehensible to him and that Ukrainians have a desire to integrate, which has not been the case for many people in other languages who lived here in Estonia for 50 to 60 years, and that they should contribute fully to the development of the Estonian language skills of Ukrainians, the additional budget has guaranteed proper resources and should be used. In a long time, the Head of the Language Board, Ilmar Tomusk, spoke about his experience and said that he also felt that the problem was that we did not protect the Estonian people by adopting this draft. It does not, in fact, contribute to the distribution of war refugees between different jobs and positions or to helping them to work in a professional capacity. According to Estonian law, language is still the most neutral basis for determining language skills, which is language and education. If he or she has completed his or her education in Estonian, he or she does not have to pass the language examination, as a foreign language, he or she must. But here it is proposed that this [base] country of origin or nationality, which are very suspicious features, be taken as a basis. Tomusk, for example, pointed out that we currently have large shops such as Maxima, where there are 120 Russian - native Russian workers in one store. If you take more 10 to 20 Russian-speaking Ukrainian workers who are exempt from language requirements there, it will certainly create great tensions. The institution has an obligation to provide information and service to clients in Estonian. If one of the attendants does not speak Estonian, the institution must find these measures and that means really a very heavy burden on the authorities to take it over. However, it would be right, as it has been suggested, that people working as a service provider start learning the Estonian language. The government has provided additional resources for this. Various institutions, such as Maxima and the Police and Border Guard Board, have already developed specific dictionaries for war refugees. War refugees are already speaking, albeit barely, but they still speak Estonian and often speak better than those who have lived in other languages in Estonia for a long time. When you look at the supervision of the Language Board, Tomusk said, the language law does not tell the language officer when he or she must give the employee an injunction. In the case of war refugees, the Language Board has developed a principle that has also been shared with entrepreneurs. If there is a complaint about a particular employee, the Language Board will advise both the employee and the employer on how best to learn the language. The staff member shall not be excluded from supervision, but shall not immediately be subject to injunctions and sanctions. It is noted that according to the language law, he has a certain time to learn the language. The most important thing is to maintain the motivation for learning, which may disappear if, for example, it were released from language learning for two years. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, the independent language learning environment is about to explode. According to Tomusk, it is unreasonable to abolish language requirements for one target group within a certain time limit, as everything can be resolved within the framework of current law. Helle-Moonika Helme asked whether the Language Board would check that Estonian workers in the labour group would not be part of the orphanage if there were too many Ukrainian war refugees in the collective, for example, speaking Russian among themselves. Ilmar Tomusk replied that language proficiency requirements have been established under the Language Act by a decree of the Government of the Republic. The Language Board controls compliance with these requirements, but it does not impose requirements and the language of communication between the institution or working group is not regulated by the language law. However, § 8 (3) of the Language Act requires everyone to be provided with professional information in Estonian. If Estonian workers are suddenly not guaranteed this, it is possible to intervene; other members of the collective cannot appoint it. There have indeed been complaints in the language department's practice that the working language is Russian instead of Estonian because of Russian-language workers. If the [working language] requirement is violated, the Language Board can make an injunction. According to Tomusk, we have had a problem not with Ukrainian war refugees, because their share of the institutions is small, but rather it is a problem in major shopping centres, with a total of 2 000-3000 service providers who do not speak enough Estonian. The Ukrainian war refugees do not change this picture; rather, they have shown a desire to learn Estonian. According to Lauri Läänemets, the draft seeks to ensure that Ukrainian war refugees can work as quickly as possible. In fact, the initiators of the draft come from the logic that war refugees do not harm the Estonian people, contribute to the Estonian economy, get a decent job, learn the Estonian language. However, the whole debate in committee revolved around the fact that it did not actually work through this draft. That is why Jaak White said that the purpose of the draft was incomprehensible to him and proposed that the initiators withdraw the draft, which would save time for the plenary proceedings. White added that, if the proposal is not acceptable, it would propose to the Commission to go to the procedural decisions, and that was what Aadu Must, the chairman of the committee, did. It was proposed that the Commission be appointed rapporteur for today's speaker, Mr Sutrop, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 31 May, which was rejected today, 1 June, and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. The draft was rejected by 1 member, Mr Läänemets. Everyone else was in favour of putting it on the agenda. To propose to reject the draft was again opposed by 1 member, Lauri Läänemets, the rest were in favour. Margit Sutrop: against 1 or Lauri Läänemets, the others were in favour, there were no abstentions. Thank you very much. I can answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U282	Thank you. But there are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U284	Then we'll go to the negotiations. No negotiators either. Then we go to the vote on rejection. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 578 at first reading and we must first bring it to the public hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission of lading 700, sorry, 578... I'm sorry! Raimond Kaljulaid, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U285	Yeah, thanks! I just wanted to make sure that this bill still has the signature of the sots, which we are going to vote on, or that they have taken them away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U286	I haven't been able to get any signed signatures. The bill is still in the process, as far as I know. But that was a good question. Then let's get to the vote. As has been said, the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 578 at first reading. I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U287	There are 59 delegates in favour of the rejection proposal, 9 delegates do not support it, there are no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U288	The fourth item on today's agenda is not to go away; we are at third readings and we are going to vote on the draft law on the insolvency of a natural person initiated by the Government of the Republic is the third reading of 575. Adoption requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Before we go to the vote, we can make speeches. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish, the negotiations are closed. I am voting on the draft Act on the Insolvency of a Natural Person, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 575. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U289	The draft was supported by 67 delegates, with zero abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U290	Today's fifth item is the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499. This is also the third reading and the lead committee has proposed a final vote. But first we can open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I shall vote on the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs 499. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U291	69 ambassadors supported the adoption of the draft, there is no one against it and there are no abstentions. This [draft] has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U292	Today's sixth item is the third reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of Other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations and we will go to the vote. I am voting on the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 533. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U293	There are 53 ambassadors in favour of the draft, 16 against it, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U294	Today's seventh item is the third reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and veterinary law initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is possible to open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will conclude the negotiations and we will proceed to the vote. I shall vote on the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and the Veterinary Act 544. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U295	There are 69 ambassadors in favour of the draft, there is no one against it, there are no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U296	Today's eighth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Identity Documents, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It's possible to come here for negotiation. That's not what you want. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Identity Documents, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government, 570. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U297	69 ambassadors support the draft, no votes against, no abstentions either. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U298	Now we're going to other readings. Ninth item: Second reading of draft Act 583 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering and the Detection, Seizure and Confiscation of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U299	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I have already talked about the objectives of the convention here. Estonian law is in accordance with this Convention and no further amendments to the laws are required. You don't need resources. This draft was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 and 30 May. No amendments were received by the deadline of 16 May. There was not much debate in the Commission before the second reading. Instead, it was proposed that the second reading should be concluded and the final vote taken, as it is a convention. These decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U300	Any questions for the waitress? No, it doesn't. Then there is nothing, we can now open negotiations. I wouldn't recommend that either. Otherwise, amendments could be dealt with, but they have not been tabled. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote because it is an external agreement. I told you before, there will be another vote, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have one ratification of the foreign treaty here. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering and the Detection, Seizure and Confiscation of Crimes and on the Financing of Terrorism, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 583. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U301	Yes, a touching consensus, the eye gets damp: by 64, there are no votes against, there are no abstentions. The draft was approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U302	Now today's tenth item on the agenda: draft law on cyber security initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws 531. This bill is at second reading. I'd like a report from a member of the National Defence Commission, Toomas Järveoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U303	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 February this year and its first reading took place on 6 April. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline of 21 April at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on National Defence tabled three amendments to the draft commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meetings on 2 May, 16 May and 30 May. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 2 May, Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Oliver Grauberg and Raavo Palu and adviser Maarja Mere participated as representatives of the initiators of the draft, the National Cyber Security Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In addition, Kalev Pihl, Head of the Information Security Advisory Board of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Union, and Keilin Tammepärg, lawyer of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association participated in the session. On 16 May, the President of the National Cyber Security Department, Oliver Grauberg and Raavo Palu and Adviser Mary Mere took part in the meeting as representatives of the initiator of the draft. At this meeting, the amendments proposed by the commission were discussed and the wording of Amendment 3 was clarified jointly. Amendments and linguistic clarifications. There were three amendments in total. Amendment 1 follows from Amendment 3 and is based on § 35 (2) of the Rules on Standard Techniques of Drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, according to which the title of the amendment of the Act will not name more than three titles. Amendment 2 raised many questions in the previous debate, too, and this was the first time discussed in the Commission. [According to this explanation], the members of the National Defence Committee consider that, according to the principle of equal treatment, the provision of the service provider laid down in the Act should apply to all Estonian political parties or not to any of them. Therefore, the provision on the basis of which a party represented in the Riigikogu could have been monitored in respect of compliance with the requirements for maintaining network and information systems by the State Information System Authority is excluded from the draft, i.e. the parties were excluded from this act. The third amendment, which may have caused the most controversy and debate, is based on the letter of the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Andres Sut, dated 21 April, asking for the draft to be supplemented by an amendment to the Information Society Service Act. Amendment 3 is intended to lay down § 131, which gives the Office for Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance the right, on a compelling basis, to require restrictions on the information society service, where this is necessary to ensure national security. I would like to emphasise precisely this: provided that the restriction takes place on condition that the security of the country needs to be ensured. At its meeting of 2 May, 16 May and 30 May, the National Defence Committee specified the above wording and agreed on the appropriate wording for its members, the Ministry and stakeholders. This was to shorten the text of § 131 (1) above and to provide for the justification of war incitement or war crimes, as well as to clarify paragraph 3. In this context, I must acknowledge the contribution of the representatives of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, represented as a lobby, to the formulation of the provisions. On the proposal of the editor of the language and of the secretary-general of the National Defence Commission and in coordination with the representatives of the initiator of the draft, the National Defence Committee made some linguistic and technical clarifications in the draft. The linguistic and technical specifications included in the text of the draft act and the amendments taken into account by the commission are underlined. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 16 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 1 June 2022. In addition, at its meeting on 16 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft today. That's all I'd like to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U304	Yeah. Now it's possible to ask questions, but I don't see any questions. Thank you. Then we open negotiations. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U305	I'd like to ask for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U306	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U307	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, An amendment to the Cyber Security Act is necessary, there is no doubt about that. We also had no problem supporting it until the end of the first reading and the work of the Commission started. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications subsequently introduced an amendment, which is currently Amendment 3 to this draft. What's the problem with that? There have been long debates about the hate speech law and this formulation has been sought in many ways, though it has come from the door and window, and in the end it is a small floor crack from which it is coming in, our committee. It is not the task of our committee, for example, to deal with the fundamental freedoms of the person, and such issues, which are also freedom of expression, that is more of a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. But that's how he was brought to our second reading. That is what we had in the Commission quite meaningful and, in a sense, even sharp debates. I'm going to read it one more time. The amendment of the Information Society Service Act was not at all the subject of the original draft, because we were talking about the Cyber Security Act at first, it was introduced here. The text is now as follows: "The Information Society Service Act is supplemented by § 131 as follows: "§ 131. The right of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority to require restrictions on the information society service. (1) Where information disseminated to the public through the information society service is incited to hatred, violence or discrimination on grounds of nationality, ethnic origin, language, religion or any of the other circumstances mentioned in § 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, war shall be encouraged or justified, and where this is necessary to ensure the security of the State and to put an end to the dissemination of such information and there is no other effective means of combating the threat, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority shall have the right to precept the information society service provider and to request the removal of information provided through the Information Society Service or to restrict access to information, taking into account the special features set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this section." I am not going to read these differences now, but this wording is, of course, somewhat different from what was originally brought to us by the Commission. At first, in fact, although we were given the reasons in the explanatory memorandum that it was necessary to ensure national security, there was no incitement to war or justification for war crimes at all, we got it in there. But this very basic postulate of the hate speech law remained in it, although it must be acknowledged that its attachment to national security softens it. However, we cannot completely rule out the arbitrary application of this paragraph, which cannot be our aim. That is why, in committee, Mr Laneman and I also opposed this amendment, we voted against it, as did our [Commission] member, Mr Laaneots. But it was voted in by a majority of the Commission. I would also point out that this is not a first practice, the first draft if, at the time of the second reading, some completely new things were introduced or, in essence, some of the current drafts were amended. We have only just had a number of such things in a few months, and the President of the Republic has been in the hands of the President of the Republic for this procedure. This type of procedure as such is not a good one. I am also afraid that such a two-step tactical plan was meant to be this way from the start, even when this bill was brought to us, and it was simply implemented in this way. I, as a military officer, can't make any other conclusion as a former military officer, for example, that it was a pure coincidence or maybe something was discovered later. It is just this same law of hate speech, albeit somewhat softened and corrected, has come back, and now it forms the law as such, through this floor crack in our committee. Due to both this content and this procedure or form, I am forced to propose that the draft be rejected at second reading on behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U308	Yeah, I got it. "Abort the bill" is a more precise formulation. No more words, I'll close the negotiations. Before we begin to vote on this proposal, which has just been called out of here, we need to revise the amendments. There's three of them. I'll find them. The first amendment is tabled by the National Defence Committee and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment is also proposed by the National Defence Committee and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The third amendment is also proposed by the National Defence Committee and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U309	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I would ask the EKRE Group to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U310	Let's put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the process of reviewing the amendments, we are in the process of amending the Cyber Security Act, the Public Information Act and the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. The third amendment tabled by the Committee on National Defence and taken into account by the commission asked the EKRE Group to be put to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U311	The amendment is supported by 40 delegates, 17 against, no abstentions. The amendment was accepted. Now we need to vote through the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of draft 531 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the ECRE Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 531. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U312	17 delegates support the proposal to interrupt, 40 against. The proposal was not supported. We go on, second reading's finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U313	Today's 11th item is the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 569. We're at second reading. I would like to ask Viktor Vassilyev, member of the Social Affairs Committee, for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and related other laws 569 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 April this year and the Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Social Committee as the commission. The proposal combines existing fragmented databases to ensure that the current national register of health professionals, the register of pharmacists and pharmacists and the data from the national register of health care providers' licences are shared and managed through the information system. In essence, registers that are intertwined with one another are merged into one information system called the Health Management Information System. The first reading of Bill 569 was completed on 20 April. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, and the commission formed two technical amendments to the draft. The Social Affairs Committee asked stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft proposal. The Association of Estonian Midwives and the Estonian Sisters' Association sent their opinion to the Social Affairs Committee. The Commission discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting of 9 May, 16 May and 30 May. At its meeting on 9 May, the Commission discussed the draft with stakeholders. At the meeting on 16 May, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that there is no need to change the wording in the draft as regards the opinions of the grouping, the Estonian Sisters' Association. The amendments proposed by the Commission, No 1 and No 2, were technical. Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading on 1 June 2022, that the draft should be closed and that, if the second reading of the draft is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 8 June 2022. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U315	Yeah, and it's a pharmaceutical commercial, right? Thank you. No questions asked. Thanks to the waitress! We can now open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1, the author is the Committee on Social Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 2, the author is the Committee on Social Affairs, and the Committee on Social Affairs has taken full account of this. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 569 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U316	Today's 12th item is the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (public of judicial procedure) 574. This is the first reading. Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice, will be here as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U317	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure and other laws, the main purpose of which is, in fact, to be written in brackets in the title of the draft, i.e. the public of legal proceedings. According to the Constitution, legal proceedings must be open to the public. At a time when the Constitution was formulated, by the way, 30 years ago, cases were discussed mostly in the courtroom and the decision was also announced there. Today, however, most cases are discussed in writing and thus the public does not have access to them. This draft wishes to ensure that the constitutional idea is that the trial is public, but that people do not lose the courage to go to court to defend their rights. At present, the public only has access to the judgments which have entered into force and the judgments which have not entered into force and which have been annulled cannot be consulted. Nor is it possible for the public to participate in civil and administrative court proceedings in order to declare a decision. These are done in writing. According to the draft law, the decisions of the courts will be published in the Official Journal of the State as soon as the judgment is notified, regardless of the procedure involved. In addition to ensuring the public of legal proceedings required by the Constitution, this will have a second effect: legal practice will become clearer to the public. Knowledge of actual legal practice is certainly of academic interest, but it also allows an assessment of the functioning of law and legal policy and the design of the necessary changes. However, access to judicial decisions for those seeking justice brings practical benefits. It is likely that ordinary people do not go through different court cases, but it is certainly done by legal professionals, lawyers, counselors. This will enable similar cases to assess what the outcome of one or the other case may be, and to contribute to making agreements, reducing pointless disputes, and also to encouraging people to go to court to defend their rights. The public hearing must certainly ensure that the presumption of innocence, the protection of data restricted by access and privacy are guaranteed at the same time. All types of personal data must be protected, such as racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious beliefs, health data, etc. The decision made public on the computer network shall not disclose the personal data of the parties to the proceedings, except in the case of the accused or acquitted, whose names and personal identification numbers are disclosed. However, as a party to proceedings, a person has the right to request the disclosure of his or her name and the right to request the cessation of the disclosure of his or her name. The decision published shall be marked "not effective'. If the solution enters into force or is withdrawn, it shall be automatically replaced by "Enforced' or "Revocation'. The draft act allows a non-judicial person to submit an application for access to the court file in a case closed in criminal proceedings. In such cases, the applicant shall state the reasons for his or her request. For press purposes, access to the file is presumed to be of legitimate interest, but the court still decides whether a particular file or which part of it is available to the journalist. For the sake of justice, the hearing may also be broadcast on the website on the initiative of the court. Information about the transfer will be made available on the website of the National Official Journal. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 August next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U318	Thank you. Questions can be asked. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U319	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am a little confused about personal data and the Data Protection Act or the Personal Data Protection Act. Estonia is such a small place that once the name of the person has been disclosed, it does not protect the person from possible further threats, harassments or retaliation. Is it also meant to have what it might bring with it if the name is public?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U320	Thank you. I would point out that the names of people in a very limited circle are being made public. These are those found guilty or acquitted in certain cases. The names of the participants in the proceedings shall not be disclosed, they shall be anonymised, so that no information is generated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U321	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U322	Thank you again, Mr President. Good minister! Yes, a guilty or acquitted person in the proceedings. We can now see from the Estonian Express that the Estonian Express has now re-judged Marti Kuusik and has started analysing the data again. After all, it does not protect a person, but even the details of what has been going on at the hearing are all available. Well, that's a little bit of a question in me. Why don't you explain it nicely?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U323	Thank you. It is well known that justice is still taking place in public, and when journalists are at trial, they will hear and see who is involved. After the judgment has entered into force, the right of access to documents shall arise. According to this law too, the name of the acquittal has been made public. Perhaps in a situation where the trial is taking place, because the trial in criminal matters is public, everyone in the hall can see everything, everyone knows who will be tried, whose possible crime will be discussed. This person is known, and if it turns out that this person is finally acquitted, then I think that it is very useful for this person to disclose his name, precisely because it says that he is innocent. If the process has been discussed and the final solution is known, but the final decision, if the judgment enters into force, is not in the name of a person, then the public may not know that a person has actually been acquitted. When the trial was held, he was accused, but now he is no longer, but he is so-called clean and freed from accusations, proved right, and it seems to me that this approach to acquittal is useful. But, of course, as stated in this bill, if a person wishes to be acquitted of anonymised, this bill gives him the opportunity to apply for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U324	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U325	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Speaking specifically of this Marti Kuusik case, I would remind you that it was a closed trial. Today's Estonian Express contains a large number of data, which according to the author has information fragments that have drip into the press. How can information fragments be dripping on the press, suggesting that an image is put together that can completely distort the entire case and leave a completely distorted image of the acquitted person? Is this, in the context of this draft, acceptable practice of publicising closed proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U326	Thank you. Firstly, I do not comment on specific cases, nor did I comment on the previous question, nor did I comment on it now. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when a decision is taken in court, it is the fact that a person is under trial, even in the case of a closed sitting, and the name of the person who is the subject of [the court], or the name of the party, suspect or accused person, are known, right? If it turns out that he is not guilty, then obviously it is also, I think, for the accused and the right one, that it is well known. If some kind of data dripping out of the closed trial during the trial, you'll have to ask the people who are dripping them and who are getting that information from somewhere, how they get it. However, I would point out that it is still possible to examine the case-law, while the judges have the right to decide whether they will allow access and which part will be allowed access, which part does not. So a person who has access to court documents has a duty to observe certain things under certain conditions. If they violate it, people who think that their rights have been violated have the right to go to court to defend their rights, that is what our constitution calls them, and that is what it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U327	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U328	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Well, we have a very clear picture here that this amendment has been made specifically for journalists. Although, let me be sceptical: in my opinion, there is a practice in Estonia where the prosecutor's office holds press conferences long before the hearing begins, shares information, leaks information, uses journalists to influence certain politically formed processes, shame the people involved in the process and damage their reputation. How do you think this fits in with the publicising of trials and our legal practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U329	Thank you. This avalanche of accusations you're making right now is your opinion and position. It has no contact with this bill. This draft deals with judicial decisions, the disclosure of judgments. I think it is very important, according to the constitution, that the decisions are public and are made publicly, because that is what our constitution requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U330	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U331	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, But let us give an example. In court we discuss, say, the divorce of a married couple. Property relationships are also regulated. Suppose there are divorced because there have also been cases of harassment and threats. Will all the information then be disclosed and all these items of dispute brought to the public when they were dealt with during the hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U332	Thank you. If a court hearing is held behind a closed door and I have understood that, in particularly sensitive cases, it takes place behind closed doors, this part is, of course, not made public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U333	No more questions for the waitress. Let's go to the co-report. I would like to ask for a chair of the member of the Legal Affairs Committee, Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft on improving the efficiency of the public in judicial proceedings was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 May. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri opened up the proposed amendments to the law, just as he has just spoken in this Chamber. Legal changes in the work of courts are, as we know, caused by real life and technological progress. This became quite clear in the Commission as well. I would like to highlight some aspects and questions that arose in the sitting. Improving the efficiency of the public in judicial proceedings generally involves two parties: the public of hearings and the public of judicial decisions. I am therefore also quoting Linnar Liivamägi, adviser to the Committee on Legal Affairs, who said that justice in the rule of law is always public in general, except in cases where the court has specific grounds to declare it closed in the interests of the parties to proceedings. At present, the proportion of written procedures has increased and the public in judicial proceedings, which should guarantee the credibility and transparency of the legal system, has been somewhat out of the question. The members of the Commission had a question of how to deal with a situation where one party wishes to be closed in court proceedings but the other party wishes to have a public hearing. The minister replied that in such a situation, the court had jurisdiction to make a decision. It is also up to the court to decide whether or not the hearing is broadcast online. As a general rule, online transfer is an option in cases where there is a very high public interest. We had the longest debate on the disclosure of the sitting. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, stated that he was not in favour of publishing most of the hearings online because it allows recording and photographing, and felt that the public interest was not so high. The Minister agreed that it was not necessary to transfer online for all hearings, but the law creates the possibility of how and under what conditions this transfer can be made. Indeed, in certain situations, it should be considered that a transfer cannot be made, for example in criminal proceedings, when interrogating different witnesses. It is also important to note that since the participants in the hearing must be unambiguously identifiable, the prohibition on photographing and recording for malicious purposes can be identified and sanctioned. The Commission also argued that such online disclosure could have a very disruptive effect on witnesses of legal proceedings and should be limited to a minimum. The Minister agreed that this is a serious place of choice for the judge, in which case and how and for what purpose a transfer from the hearing will be made. The solution proposed is the registration and identification of participants and the requirement that the court channel be secure online. In the Commission, it was recognised that in practice judges may not be able to apply the possibility of online transmission at all, but there may be situations where this is necessary, and that is why the clarity of the law is important. The Commission also asked whether and in which countries the trial is broadcast to the public. We learned that no such analysis has been carried out at the moment for Europe or other countries. In general, the proposal to pass on hearings was also due to our practice, in other words, to an objective situation. You know when it came about. The purpose of granting web transfers was to give the court such a choice in the event of a hearing of great public interest, such as for the benefit of legal education. The Minister gave an example of a hearing in which there was a dispute about the second pillar of the pension, which was made public because of a high public interest. In conclusion, in situations where it is difficult to accommodate interested parties due to a high public interest, the court could consider making the hearing accessible online. This option is not intended for permanent but for specific cases, as there are circumstances that may make this solution difficult. Now the other part of this law: the public of judicial decisions. The Commission was asked to explain to the opinion that I am quoting people would dare to go to court more than before similar court decisions already exist and are available at different levels. And the explanation was simple: on the basis of similar judicial decisions, a person can better assess the need for recourse to a court. For example, in a situation where documents about a plot or road accessibility disputes are not made public, a person can go to court without knowing how and if these cases have been resolved beforehand, and he or she will not be able to consider them. But it would prevent a lot from going to court. Maybe that's my opinion. There was also a request for a European practice in the use of technological solutions to publicise the procedure. The Minister explained that Estonia is at the forefront of digitalisation and rated the best in the newly issued Baltic and Nordic reports. For example, digital files exist in Estonia, and during the COVID restrictions, courts were able to ensure the functioning of the courts. Estonia's practical technological solutions are highly appreciated. Member of the Commission Anti Poolamets noted that other countries had similar problems with the number of written procedures, small courtrooms and a high public interest, and asked whether it was possible to highlight international practice in complaints about the non-observability of hearings. The Minister replied that since the proposal to transfer hearings as a solution was based on Estonian practice, no numerical studies have been carried out. This issue has indeed come up at meetings with justice ministers from other countries. Everyone is looking for better solutions. Procedural decisions were taken: putting the draft on the plenary agenda on 1 June; there was a consensus; proposing to close the first reading; there was a consensus; proposing to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 15 June; there was a consensus; appointing Urve Tiidus as the representative of the lead committee; there was a consensus here too. These consensual decisions were made by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U335	Thank you. You can ask questions, but you can't ask questions. In that case, I will open negotiations. There are no negotiations. Then we go to the Commission's proposals. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 574 be terminated and the first reading is completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 15 June this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U336	Our 13th and last item today is the draft Act on Early Childhood Education and Childcare initiated by the Government of the Republic 579. This is a first reading and I would like to ask the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U337	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft Act on Early Childhood Education and Childcare, which aims to say this today on Children's Protection Day, is to create a system that is increasingly based on the needs of children aged between one and a half and seven years and their families and creates high-quality conditions to support children's development. This academic year, according to the Estonian Education Information System, 597 pre-school children's institutions operate in Estonia. Of these, 468 are kindergartens and 129 are general education schools, where there are also kindergarten groups. In total, almost 67000 children receive early childhood education in 3,809 groups. This is the part of the children affected by this bill. Currently, there are slightly more than 8000 teachers working in Estonian pre-school institutions and in kindergarten groups working at general education schools. There are an estimated 3800 assistant teachers and directors as many as the kindergartens, 597 in the context of this bill. I will bring out to you the most important changes that we have updated and clarified in the draft compared to the current pre-school law. Firstly, we are talking about access to early childhood education. In order to ensure access to early childhood education, the draft stipulates that, like the current pre-school institution law, the local government will ensure that all children aged between one and a half and seven who reside in the territory of the municipality have the opportunity to attend kindergarten at the request of the parent. The principle of separation is the preference of the parent, the proximity of the child's place of residence to the kindergarten, and the presence of other children in the same family in the same kindergarten. In the application, the parent indicates the beginning of the desired day-care centre and day-care centre. The municipality shall determine the kindergarten place within two months of submitting the application. In order to regulate the period of submission of applications, the municipality establishes the procedure for the reception and exclusion of children in kindergarten according to the draft. For example, if a parent wishes to put a child in a kindergarten when the child is three years old, the parent must submit an application two months before the child becomes three years old and the local government must give the answer to the parent within two months, as well as the kindergarten place. With the consent of the parent, the municipality may replace the municipal day care centre of a child between one and a half and seven years of age with a place of private day care or a place of municipal day care for a child between one and a half and three years of age. When replacing a day-care position with a place in a private day-care centre or deposit, the parent's participation fee may not be higher than it is in a municipal day-care centre. Secondly, the provision of support services. Our aim is to ensure better organisation of support services and to support the development of each child with a more uniform provision of support services across education. The basis is the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which provides for general, enhanced and specific support. The same services and procedures for their implementation are now planned to be introduced into early childhood education. The Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act provides that the child is to be provided with a logo beet and special needs education or other support specialist service in kindergarten. This is also the case under the current law. In addition, in order to support the development of the child and to provide the service of support specialists in kindergarten, the Director appoints a coordinator of education for children with special educational needs, or HEVKO, in the same way as the General Education School, whose task is to organise teamwork within the kindergarten and to coordinate participation in networking outside the kindergarten. Although this is a new role in early childhood education within the meaning of the law, it does not require the creation of an additional post in kindergarten. In order to carry out the tasks of HEVKO, the Head of Kindergarten has the right to choose the most suitable employee for the job and, in essence, many kindergartens currently carry out this task. The principle of inclusive education involves enhanced support and children in need are excluded from the mainstream group. This is due to a lower limit for children in the group than in other kindergarten groups, given that one child receiving enhanced support fills three places and one child receiving excrement fills six places. Diagnosis-based groups of the current Pre-school Children's Act, such as groups of children with physical, composite and sensory impairments, equalisation and development groups and groups of children with pervasive developmental disorders will be replaced by enhanced support in the draft and eliminated by groups of children receiving them, such as in the education system in general. In order to support the well-being and development of the child, smaller groups may be formed in kindergarten, such as a group of children receiving enhanced support with up to 12 children, under the new draft Act on Early Childhood Education and Childcare, to be excluded from the group of children receiving support with up to six children. Recommendations for this purpose are made by an external advisory team. It is also important that the kindergarten support specialist has the right to apply for the support specialist's starting grant, which we are currently applying for in schools. The amount of this initial payment is approximately EUR 13000 net. Taking into account the amount of starting aid applications submitted by school support specialists, there are just under 30 applications per year and the amount of the starting aid, the estimated cost to the country resulting from the expansion of the right to apply for starting aid is up to EUR 460000 per year. Thirdly, we are talking about the language of instruction. According to the Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act, the language of kindergarten education is Estonian from the age of three. While the law currently in force allows a kindergarten holder to set up another language of study in groups at 100%, and several local authorities have used this option by creating a kindergarten or groups with a Russian language of instruction, the new law no longer allows for this possibility. Currently, 9500 kindergarten children are studying in 97 pre-school institutions in Estonia, or 14% of all children. In addition, 3700 children are included in the immersion groups, i.e. 5.5%. The language immersion method is used in 62 pre-school institutions and more than 200 kindergarten groups. The new Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act will continue to give the kindergarten holder the right to allow children with other mother tongues to be taught in their mother tongue, provided that the other language of instruction does not constitute more than 50% of the teaching and education activities and that the Estonian language of instruction must be guaranteed at least 50%. To this end, each group must have at least one C1-level full-time employee with a C1 proficiency in Estonian at the latest after five years, i.e. by 1 September 2027. If the parent wants his or her child to receive education only in the Estonian language group and kindergarten, the child must be provided with a kindergarten place in a group with 100% Estonian language of instruction. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian; it is a constitutional right. Thus, 100% of the Estonian-language kindergarten is maintained in its current form and this kindergarten must be guaranteed for everyone. No one can be forced to participate in a kindergarten group with some other language of instruction if the parent has not expressed his or her wish. Thus, the new law guarantees the constitutional right of every child to receive education in Estonian. Fourthly, we are talking about the qualifications and composition of workers. The Regulation on minimum staff members of the pre-school institution will be repealed by the draft. For day-care centres, the recruitment and burden-setting of staff involved in education and training activities will become more flexible. The kindergarten has a greater autonomy to decide which positions it creates and with what load it employs. Of course, the staff involved in teaching and education activities, who certainly need to be in kindergarten, are in the future established by law. These include the Director, Teachers, Assistant Teachers and Support Specialists. The draft raises the qualification requirements of the Director and the head of study, which is a master's degree or corresponding qualification, as well as pedagogical competences and managerial competences. As of 10 November last year, there were a total of just over 1000 managers and teachers working in kindergartens, of whom nearly 70% have at least a Master's degree or similar qualification. For the first time, it also lays down qualification requirements for assistant teachers, at least secondary education and a babysitter's profession, or at least secondary education and pedagogical competences. In the context of the draft, it is estimated that there are currently 3,800 assistant teachers in kindergartens. According to the current law, the assistant teacher is not a pedagogical employee and their data is currently not included in the Estonian Education Information System. Therefore, we do not have a comprehensive overview of their level of education and qualifications, as is the case with teachers and kindergarten managers. It is well known that about a third of them have more than ten years of experience in kindergarten and have undergone different training courses in health, pedagogy or babysitting and teamwork during their daily work, which means they already have work experience and the pedagogical competence necessary for the work they have completed with further training. For current assistant teachers, directors and teachers, the draft does not apply qualification requirements until 1 September 2027. These requirements shall apply from 1 September 2027. So there's a transitional period. In short, the formation of groups. The number of registered kindergarten children in the group and the corresponding number of employees are not changed compared to the current pre-school law. Local authorities will have the possibility to increase the number of children in the group, on an exceptional basis and on a proposal from the Director, on which the board of trustees has also expressed an opinion, in order to address the problems related to the high demand for kindergarten places. According to the draft, the number of children registered in the group is 14 in a group of between one and a half and three years of age, 20 in a group of between three and seven years of age and 18 in a composite group of between one and a half and seven years of age. The current Pre-school Children's Institution Act identifies a group of children between one and a half and three years of age as a manor group, a group of children between three and seven years of age as a kindergarten group and a group of children between one and a half and seven years of age as a composite group. In the new draft law on early childhood education and care, these [names] are replaced by the age range of children, i.e. groups of children between one and a half and three years of age, children between three and seven years of age and children between two and seven years of age. A little bit of babysitting, too. So far, children aged between one and a half and three years have had child care in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, moving to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research on the basis of this draft. Childcare is made part of the education system. The draft defines the concept of childcare. According to the new law, childcare is an institution in which [one and a half to three years] children are kept and supported by the development of their general skills in a secure, age-appropriate, playful and developing environment. The only new obligation compared to the current Social Welfare Act for childcare services is that the child care provider prepares an action plan to support the development of children's general skills according to the national early childhood education curriculum and a transitional period has been granted until 30 August next year. Child care services for children with severe or deep disabilities, or children with high needs for care and assistance, remain under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and are regulated by the Social Welfare Act. The Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act also provides childcare for children up to three years of age to support the development of their general skills. From the age of four, it is also important to support the development of the child's knowledge and skills that create the prerequisites for basic education and successful progress in everyday life, which is why the draft provides for childcare facilities for children between four and seven years of age. There will, as I said, be a three-year transitional period for active childcare providers, but, as is currently the case, it will be possible to continue to offer childcare services on the free market on the basis of a debt-law contract. In this case, it is not the state that supervises the provision of the service, but the parent. The financial implications of this bill also quickly. The draft does not change the system of financing early childhood education and care. Ensuring access to early childhood education is a statutory task of the local government, to which the local government has both the resources received from the income base and the public budget resources earmarked for that purpose. In order to implement the draft, the State will continue to provide LAs with a staff contribution of EUR 15 million per year for kindergarten teachers, which may be used by the municipality to increase the pay of kindergarten teachers, to ensure access to support services and to compensate for the remuneration of support specialists, including those related to the tasks of the HEVKOs. The estimated cost to the country, as I have already said, of providing a kindergarten support specialist start-up grant is in the order of EUR 460000 per year. In order to implement the regulations of the language of instruction, kindergartens are supported by the state project "Professional Estonian Teacher in a group with Russian language of instruction" from the age of three. And this support by the state will certainly continue, and that is what we want to expand. In addition, nearly EUR 400000 per year is allocated from the state budget to kindergartens to support Estonian language learning. According to the data of the Estonian Education Information System, the support is allocated to groups with other teaching languages, language immersion groups as well as groups that enable Estonian language learning. This year, almost 1500 groups received support. In addition, there are many other tools to develop both the language skills of educators and their methodological skills so that they can also teach children in other languages in Estonian if necessary. In addition, we have increased and are planning to continue to increase the number of study places on the curriculum of kindergarten teachers. This year, for example, we increased this figure by 16, a total of 50 study places and cost the state EUR 450000 per year. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very fundamental bill based on children's rights, bearing in mind that the child's right to education in Estonian, including early childhood education, is guaranteed in Estonia. According to the draft law, it should take effect gradually, but this part of the language in 2027. However, given that we are probably going to continue to deal with this draft, I very much hope so in the autumn, the deadline for the entry into force of this law, as well as the transitional period, will probably have to be amended here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U338	Thank you. Now to the questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U339	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It must not be a secret that this bill is closely linked to the new early childhood education curriculum and its draft. You will remember that at the beginning of the year you came here to answer an inquiry into the same curriculum, and one of the most important topics is digital learning in kindergartens. This is an extremely sensitive issue, as it affects the development of children's brain and creativity, mental health, as well as wider cultural and civilizational trends in our society. Then, in response to an inquiry, you signaled that this part of the curriculum was probably not written properly, that it should be discussed with experts and rewritten. Now my question is: has the draft curriculum changed in this respect, or is it still on paper in the same form as it was then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U340	Thank you very much for this question. I am very pleased that you raised this issue, because indeed, on the basis of your questioning, we have consulted experts again, including Jaan Aru, the brain-scientist you have suggested. And indeed, this curriculum we changed first by the fact that the development of digital skills starts from the age of three, not earlier. Digital tools may be used from the age of three. And we also stressed in that curriculum that this development of digital skills is not sitting behind the screen, but mostly child-friendly robots that already teach such basic programming skills. I have recently visited several kindergartens, both in Estonian and in Russian, in the context of this draft law on early childhood education, and have seen how these digital tools are actually used. And really, they're very child-friendly, and not the training tools for sitting in front of the screen, but rather those toys that can be programmed based on initial programming skills. So, yes, thank you for asking, we really did consult in addition and also changed the curriculum on the basis of expert assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U341	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Thank you very much for your work in preparing this legislative amendment. This is a signicant legislative amendment and I am very pleased that we are now starting this debate on 1 June, Child Protection Day. After all, this draft is not only an Estonian-language kindergarten, but also a very large number of support services that go together with this law. But in the Committee on Culture and I have noticed that there has also been a discussion in the media and there have been various opinions that the Estonian language of instruction and the Estonian kindergarten are not overlapping concepts. And the criticism has just been surprising to me. This is where I ask for a protocol, so that you can explain why it is believed that the local governments have now been given the free hands of this law to start Russing the children of Estonia. Now as the municipality must ensure...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U343	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U344	... only 50% of Estonian-language education for the Estonian child. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U345	Thank you. However, the idea of this bill is that every child must receive early childhood education in Estonian. We know that today's law allows the kindergarten manager to make it possible to have a kindergarten in 100% other language with his decision. According to this draft, the language of instruction can be changed, but no longer 100%, but 50%. So, in the context of this bill, we are talking about Russian-language kindergartens, who will have the opportunity, if their keeper so wishes, to be at least 50% in Estonian and to other extent in Russian, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U346	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U347	Thank you, manager. Good minister! This is not an amendment to the law, but an amendment to the principles of the law. We now unite the two laws. But the principle remains that the local government is obliged to provide kindergarten places for all parents who wish to put their children in kindergarten. The amendment is that now it's here in § 4, earlier in KELS was in § 10. I remember the time when the municipalities of Tallinn's Golden Circle were unable to guarantee kindergarten places and were repeatedly sued. At the same time, they figured out the top of the ranking of successful municipalities from the first to the fifth place. But they didn't actually comply with the law. Why does this draft not provide flexibility for such municipalities, or how does the amendments to this law contribute to the creation of kindergarten places?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U348	Thank you. Firstly, I hope that we all understand this in the same way that it is the task of the local government to provide a kindergarten place for children living in its territory. This is the task of the local government. And if there are no such places and there are forecasts that there will be more children in a certain area, then the plans for investments must take account of the fact that there will be more children. We have now proposed in this bill that if there are no kindergarten places, private childcare may also be involved, children may also be directed to private child care, but then the place fee must be similar to municipal day care. In essence, this is what is already being done in some local governments, such as Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U349	Now, please, Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U350	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The new draft raises the qualification requirements of the Director and the head of study, which is a master's degree. Can you tell me how many people will lose their jobs as a result of this because they do not meet these qualifications requirements? And where can we find these new people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U351	Thank you. In my presentation, I said that we have a little more than 1000 heads of early childhood education at work and almost 70% of them have a master's degree or qualification that the new law provides for. This specific qualification requirement, as is mostly the case with qualification requirements, also provides for a transitional period. I believe that today's kindergarten directors and lecturers, who will also see themselves in the same position in three or four years' time, will be able to go and obtain a master's degree. They certainly have a bachelor's degree and it will take two years to complete a master's degree if you commit to it, as you know very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U352	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to congratulate you, the Minister, and the entire Ministry for bringing a large law on early childhood education and care to the Riigikogu. We've been waiting a long time for this. But the explanatory memorandum points out, I quote, that the organisation of kindergarten management is changed. This is compared to the previous pre-school law. We know how important leadership and leadership are in the organisation. Please open this modified control scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U354	Thank you. First of all, we really expect, as with schools, as with kindergartens, to have a master's degree. This is very important because the role of the kindergarten director is a very influential role and it is absolutely up to a highly qualified person to lead the process there. But according to this bill, we are actually demanding higher qualifications in the same way, but on the other hand, giving kindergartens greater autonomy and flexibility in the creation of a team. We will no longer be very clear as legislators about who must be on the kindergarten team. We say, however, that there must be a director, head of study, teachers, assistant teachers and support staff, but who else must be, in order to do so, we give greater autonomy to pre-school childcare facilities. And this requires [leaders] to be highly qualified to deal with this responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U355	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U356	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In paragraph 10, you say that a parent's consent is required to wear an information system, while the child's need for support has already been defined by that time. How is it ensured that the child is not marked without the parent's prior consent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U357	Certainly, the child must receive support and all these markings must be with the consent and knowledge of the parent. You can't do it the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U358	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U359	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture at two meetings, and the second meeting took as a template whether to take immediate procedural decisions or to ask for further explanations, as agreed with you at the first meeting. Thus, this draft, which, together with the explanatory memorandum, contains 156 pages of this kind of brochure, was prepared as of September 2018 for the transport of HTM, 21 institutions prepared it, and the draft was discussed in the Commission essentially less than one hour. I ask: do you consider this to be a good governance practice? And the second question: why did the government suddenly get so busy with this three-and-a-half-year bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U360	Thank you. First of all, as far as I am concerned, you could discuss the Early Childhood Education Act in the Committee on Culture as long as you, members of the Riigikogu, want to discuss it as long as you have answers to your questions. This certainly was not a condition or a desire of either the government or the Ministry of Education and Research to discuss it in the Committee on Culture. Two: why now? That's because this bill is finished right now. Indeed, a great many organisations, professional organisations, have for a long time contributed to the drafting of this draft. And it was decided that he would now be ready for Parliament's debate, which does not preclude amendments to Parliament's draft law. If the honourable Parliament considers that there are minor or major shortcomings in this draft law that can be corrected by the amendments, I am delighted. That is your role and your task. Good luck with your work!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U361	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U362	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. As a long-term municipality manager, I am interested in the fact that § 4 (5) regulates the right of persons to receive kindergarten services from the local government even if there is no possibility of registering in the Estonian Population Information System. How is the financing of this service guaranteed to municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U363	Early childhood education is the responsibility of the local government and is not financed by the state. This is the task of the municipality to finance early childhood education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U364	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How can a local government ensure that teachers are found if the local government is not involved in training or submitting a training order? So far, funding for higher education was a state obligation, but, as far as I know, we still have no administrative contracts with higher education institutions. While more than 100 new teachers are needed in the new academic year in Ida-Virumaa, for example. How do we get out of this dead circle and get enough teachers to achieve the objectives set out in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U366	Thank you. The country certainly has a huge role to play here. As I said, we have already increased the number of teaching places for early childhood education teachers. Several study places are open at Narva College, for example, and we certainly want to continue to increase the number of such places. We are pleased that the curriculum of early education teachers is extremely popular among young people, and it is one of the most popular specializations in universities at all. More than ten people applied for early childhood education teacher's place of study last year. Even today, universities appreciate that candidates who could actually be taught, who would certainly be eligible for early childhood education, are at the door, and that is why we very quickly increased the number of study places from our resources for this academic year, so that universities could immediately receive more [future] teachers. And I assure you that if I were to remain in office, we would certainly increase the number of study places.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U367	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U368	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When do you plan to adopt a pre-primary education curriculum and who are its developers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U369	Thank you. The curriculum can be adopted once the law has been passed. Both professional associations and universities, experts from both Tallinn University and the University of Tartu, have contributed to the development of this curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U370	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U371	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have repeatedly emphasised the language aspect, but why does the obligation of Estonian language not extend to private day-care centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U372	The language obligation does not apply to childcare now, but kindergartens, as far as I know, do. But that's what I need to check out. Yeah, definitely not for babysitting. What about private day care? No, I don't think so. Now here is the principle that early childhood education must be in Estonian. And if, when negotiating with the caretaker of a pre-school institution, he decides that 50% of this education should still be in another language, then he can only do so on the 50:50 principle. I owe you an answer right now, but I'm sure I'll answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U373	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U374	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Our group had a number of questions about this draft, we have also forwarded them to the Ministry, and we thank you for your answers. But I would ask you that this bill places a number of new, very large and expensive obligations on local authorities. Will they be accompanied by the funding needed from the new year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U375	The role of local authorities does not change much. The funding system and the tasks will not change; even today, kindergartens must provide support services for children who need it. And the local government must support its child in need, even if the child is at home, not just in kindergarten or childcare. But in any case, this obligation is already in the existing law. There are no significant additional obligations for local governments, but the state has planned a number of activities so that local governments can find more Estonian-language teachers for early childhood education, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U376	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U377	Thank you. Good minister! How do you imagine it's possible to make kindergarten groups smaller in the middle of a school year? The need in § 8 (7) of the bill and the Pathfinder's papers may arrive at different times.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U378	The size of kindergarten groups is laid down in the Act, and if kindergarten groups are to be increased, this must be the recommendation of the Director and the decision of the Board of Care. But are you [meaning] the date of entry into force of the bill? What do you mean, in the middle of the year? In itself [the size of the group] can be reduced if there is a decision of the external counseling team that there are, for example, children who need to be eliminated. It can then be reduced if [such a child] is placed there. But that's kindergarten work. We do not usually have kindergartens with a single group; however, there are usually several kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U379	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U380	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, I don't know if you understand this text as badly as you do public procurement, or if you're just as brazen. However, § 6 (3) clearly says in Estonian that the kindergarten manager, or LA, can normally use a second language of instruction or other language of instruction in addition to the Estonian language in kindergarten or group if the Estonian language of instruction is used in the group at least 50%. And that means that what you said was that education in Estonian is guaranteed is guaranteed when at least 50% of the studies are in Estonian. No matter how this explanatory memorandum spins it, it will be implemented in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. Half-language study groups and kindergartens are offered to Estonian children. This is the creation of a Russian language environment for Estonian children in kindergarten. How can you call such a thing Estonian? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U381	Thank you. You know, I don't understand what you're talking about most of the time either, and especially when you're talking about me, I really don't understand who you're really talking about. After almost three and a half hours of giving statements at the Ministry of Finance, I was very clear that there has been no infringement of this procurement, where you are accusing me of corruption, literally, and that, I believe, we will be able to discuss with you at various stages. No infringement has taken place in the first tender. I hope you will find it necessary to apologize to me for what you have said. But now from the Early Childhood Education Act. The law states very clearly: every child has the right to education in Estonian, including early childhood education, and this must be guaranteed by the schoolmaster. And if this school manager, for example, in Russian-language kindergarten, decides that 50% of this kindergarten is in Estonian and 50% in Russian, and if this kindergarten is attended by a child whose parents do not agree that this child is studying 50: 50% of the language in kindergarten, then the local government is obliged to give him a place in 100% of the Estonian-language kindergarten. I know, this is what we talked about briefly in the Committee on Culture, that if it is possible to interpret this law in a way that Estonian kindergartens will be turned into Russian, then we will work together and we will make an amendment so that it cannot be done that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U382	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U383	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is not so much a question of turning Estonian-language kindergartens into Russian-speaking children, but rather of bringing them to Russian-speaking kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U384	How do they get there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U385	But actually, I have that remark. [[The lead is ringing the bell.]] If you are now making a written answer to Mr Kravtšenko, I would like to have that too. Because it is indeed stated in the draft that in a private kindergarten where Estonian is not the language of instruction, it is § 6 (4), so that such a situation is provided that there is no one, there may also be another language. And that's why I'm asking. Could there be a scent of a scheme that, given the circumstances of the local government, is largely based on private day-care centres in order to prevent Estonian from being a language of instruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U386	Thank you. Thank you for finding this point! I hope that I will no longer have to answer Mr Kravtšenko. Yeah, I was thinking back, really, it was a possibility that there could be another language of instruction in private day care centres. In essence, it is possible that some local authorities use it. But what we know is that according to surveys, 76% of the population think that we should start education in Estonian precisely from pre-primary education. I have visited a lot of municipalities in Ida-Virumaa, met with specialists in the field of education, went to schools and kindergartens, both in Estonian and Russian, and realized that in fact Ida-Virumaa, but also in Lasnamäe, parents have very high expectations of using the language immersion methodology. Even in Ida-Virumaa and Lasnamäe, parents want to put their children in entirely Russian-speaking groups. Priority is given, above all, to immersion groups and groups with +1 teachers, which is 50%. If any local authority thinks this is important, it has the opportunity to turn kindergarten into a private kindergarten, but there is no more demand for it among people. On the contrary, there is a demand for immersion and for teachers in Estonian, and there is also a demand for school so that these children can later go to language immersion schools. The problem is that there are not enough study places in these schools. These are our further challenges, how we can get to these places quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U387	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Many parents have already expressed their frustration at the fact that when this law enters into force, it significantly limits parents' ability to put their children in childcare, as not all of these institutions are able to meet new conditions and requirements. And I ask: why not give parents more freedom and choice on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U389	Thank you. I agree with you, and I also think that this is an issue that could be discussed in more detail in the Riigikogu. Indeed, the principle in this draft is that from the fourth to the seventh year of life, as we expect, the preparation for basic education takes place consciously, based on the curriculum, at the hands of professional people. These childcare facilities could become private day-care centres and a transition time is foreseen. The Riigikogu has the freedom and opportunity to change these deadlines. It is thought that when a child goes to school, he or she has been to a normal kindergarten or private daycare centre But really, I think there is also the possibility that, for children between four and seven years of age, childcare will remain a place with an employee, for example, who has a child care profession, and the parent must know very accurately that there is no highly educated kindergarten teacher, but there is a babysitter and that there will not be a curriculum in this capacity as in kindergartens. In my opinion, the Riigikogu is a place for this debate and also for making the necessary amendment if the Riigikogu so decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U390	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U391	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you very much. Does your analysis indicate that all individual kindergartens are ready to apply support? Would it not be more appropriate, however, to provide support to specialize in kindergartens, such as speech group, Asperger or autism spectrum, or multilingual child support or anxiety disorder, or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U392	Thank you. This situation is not ideal neither in kindergartens nor in schools. But we also have child care that includes children with deep or severe disabilities. This area will remain under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs even now in the context of this new law. Yeah, there's a lack of support specialists. But we have seen that when support specialists were introduced in schools, a lot of support specialists came to schools. We very much hope that, thanks to this starting grant, there will also be more support specialists in kindergartens. [We have] several very good local authorities. I see Helmen here, Viljandi has done an excellent job in creating a children's support centre, offering support services to children in schools and kindergartens. So these support specialists are also available in Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U393	Let's keep going. Peter Rahne from Abja County, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U394	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! § 4. Access to early childhood education. I would like to ask you, and I would also ask you, that in many places it is pointed out that both the child's place of residence and the other children of the family are taken into account when applying for and [giving a day-care position]. But the question is, to what extent the needs of the parent are taken into account. For example, when a parent goes to work and goes there and when he leaves work, he can take the child with him. How is this taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U395	Thank you for your question. The application for a day-care position should be made by the parent and the parent should be based on his or her needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U396	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I know very well that the local government pays for children registered on its territory, provides a day-care place and, of course, also pays for children attending a kindergarten in another municipality. But my question specifically concerned the fact that if he is not registered at all in the Estonian Population Information System, how the state comes here to help and whether he will come at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U398	Thank you. Probably in that case, this parent lives in this local government, otherwise he wouldn't want to put his child in this kindergarten of the local government. Perhaps here, yes, we need to discuss how to solve it better. In any case, early childhood education is not compulsory in itself in the Estonian state, as opposed to basic education, for example, where it really is that if the child does not have a place of residence, the state must still guarantee him or her access to basic education. However, in the case of early childhood education, the state does not pay a specific bounty for these children. This is, after all, the question of how to resolve this situation in the negotiations between parents and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U399	Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to come back to the question of qualifications requirements for directors and tutors. It's just that I remember that when we had a visit from the Ministry of Education, they said that 60% of the employees are currently meeting these requirements, you said 70%. So what's the right number? Maybe you have exact statistics and exact numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U401	Thank you. 1067 there were these totals of directors and early education teachers... Oh, I'll check right here... However, 1026 directors and lecturers were in the past year as of 10 November and 67% of them have at least a Master's degree or equivalent level. Is that an exact number?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U402	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister for Education and Science, The draft on the financial impact on local authorities has already been asked by some colleagues here; I will try to do so from a slightly different perspective. For example, to support the model of inclusive education, local government funding for school education was increased to just under 20 million. The calculation was based on children of school age at the time. What calculations have you now made to assess the impact of this draft on local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U404	Thank you. I would remind you once again that the local government still has a duty to ensure that kindergartens have access to support services. This does not place new tasks on kindergartens or local authorities. This is still the task of the local government, and I hope that the local authorities will do their best to be at the height of these tasks. I understand it's difficult to find all the specialists in any educational establishment. This is why a number of local authorities have set up specialised centres where this very high level of qualification [assumed] support can be distributed to different educational institutions. And in the case of early childhood education, I think this is very fundamental. It is significantly more effective if we already support children in early childhood education, because, for example, logo beet and special education services are significantly more effective in kindergartens. At school, it takes considerably more time for a specialist to resolve problematic situations or, for example, to achieve a child's linguistic development. These changes take place significantly faster and smoother in kindergartens. So it is very important that we focus first and foremost on providing support services for kindergarten children, because it is effective. This makes it less necessary to support children in school because they have already received good support in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U405	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U406	Thank you. I am very sorry that you do not know very well the draft legislation you have submitted. The same question about the limit that if there is a child in the group in need of enhanced assistance, the limit is lower. But this need could come in the middle of a year. I'm still confused about how you think it's possible to start changing the limit in kindergarten in the middle of the year. But that's it. Exactly the same confusion over language. Of course, everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian, even now. All parents who want to have it with their child have that right. The question is whether we make it compulsory. And if we want to make things compulsory in a situation, among other things, Article 37 of our Constitution, which guarantees everyone the right to receive education in Estonian, also guarantees the right of minorities to hold educational institutions in their own language. And this right of the current bill is going to be severely curtailed. Why are you doing this? Why are you going against the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U407	Yes, I could ask in return that it is interesting why you yearn for the monument of Viktor Kingissepa to the Estonian state. I wonder why you're doing this. Why do I consider the implementation of the Early Childhood Education Act to be important? For example, recently I went to the Suur-Pae kindergarten, which is a Russian kindergarten, but children speak excellent Estonian there. And they say, of course, we already have more than 50% of our studies in Estonian. They have done so very consciously and their parents support their children to learn the Estonian language. Every Estonian child must have the right to education in Estonian in Estonia, but at present it is not. No, because we have regions where we do not have enough Estonian-language kindergarten places and therefore children go to Russian-language kindergartens. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U408	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U409	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm asking about private day care. This draft puts private day-care centres in a worse position in the sense that they cannot be taken fully as part of the municipal day-care network, because at any moment the parent can abandon [where] there and demand municipal day-care centres. This kind of uncertainty means that municipalities must, in any case, invest in their own network and not take into account what is being offered in this private day-care centre. By the way, the same goes for childcare, both private and municipal. Again, the municipality has uncertainty, it cannot take this into account, it must, in any case, invest in kindergarten. Do you see this problem too? In fact, it leads to the loss of private day care, private day care centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U410	Thank you. Firstly, I think that private childcare and private day-care centres play an important role in our pre-school network. The local government can make arrangements with both private day-care centres and day-care centres so that they also take on responsibilities as to how many kindergarten places a private day-care centre provides in a particular [own-government]. These are agreements between the local government that can be made with kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U411	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U412	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. So far, it has not been possible to switch to Estonian-language school education because of the mass immigration during the occupation and, indeed, because of the inability to make political decisions. But in recent years, this immigration has grown to the level of the occupation. And as a result of the law that forced the government coalition through in May, it will continue to grow. As early as 2021, more than 6,000 citizens of the Eastern Slavic and African-Asian countries settled for us permanently than they left. How do you think it is? Would it not be logical to believe that the current results are the same: we simply cannot guarantee the Estonian language environment for new immigrants, which is why the events of teaching the Estonian language are also in the sand? Wouldn't it make sense to think that repeating the same thing twice doesn't make any difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U413	Thank you. We have separate support for children of new immigrants both in early childhood education and in general education. They will be offered more intensive Estonian language learning so that they can complete both Estonian-language early childhood education and Estonian-language general education as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U414	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U415	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! First of all, the previous topic goes on: no, I don't have to apologize to anyone. You guys had to apologize for the deal, right, and you can apologize. But I suppose at some point, you're gonna have to take responsibility. But I don't have to apologize. Now, about the subject of Estonian. You said, for example, that if the Russian-speaking group wants to learn half [within] Estonian, then what is my problem? I don't have a problem. Unlike the Oudekki Loone, I do not see that we are in any way teasing the Russians with this. My problem is that your talk about the fact that it is possible to get a place for a child in a kindergarten in 100% Estonian, that it is guaranteed here by the law [in the draft] is not true. I don't see that section. I've read this law in the future and backwards, I don't see that section. I see the same paragraph 6 (2) and (3). Paragraph 2 says that it must provide a place either in a kindergarten with an Estonian language of instruction or in a group of children, which means that we will have groups with an Estonian language of instruction and Russian and perhaps Ukrainian and English, all in one kindergarten, but it does not guarantee us the language environment in Estonian. And the third paragraph is gonna ruin it at all. So I think you're messing everything up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U416	Thank you. I told you earlier that if the Riigikogu found a better legal clarity on how to express this will better, that we were talking about Russian-language kindergartens, where, on the proposal of the school manager's board of trustees, the study could also be conducted in Russian, but that at least 50% of the language of instruction would be Estonian, then I am also open to helping the ministry to find a clearer legal expression in order to reduce the fears you have now described.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U417	Oudekki Loone, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U418	Thank you, Mr President. How is it compatible with the procedure that I ask a question about the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia protects the right of minorities to establish a school in their own language if they want it, which does not mean that they cannot use Estonian-language schools, but instead of answering the question and explaining the incompatibility with the Constitution, the Minister will talk about Viktor Kingissepa? How is Viktor Kingissep now related to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U419	Thank you. Indeed, our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provide that the second reading is an opportunity for members of the Riigikogu to ask questions. And when this opportunity is used, a member of the government will have to answer these questions. That's the way it is. But I can't tell you what you're asking me about, so I'm in trouble with the answer. I don't have that answer. But let's keep going. Jaak Juske, you have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U420	I might be helping the Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu. Viktor Kingissepp tried to overthrow the constitutional order of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U421	Thank you. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U422	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My experience tells me that not all kindergartens provide children with this level of training so that they are ready for school. Yes, the demands and conditions of schools vary greatly and, in most cases, the pre-school courses are more closely linked to this objective. I ask: is there also a plan to exercise control over the knowledge and skills of children when they graduate from kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U423	Thank you. Indeed, completing the national kindergarten curriculum should in future ensure that all children who have been in kindergarten do well to enter comprehensive education. And kindergartens are also supervised by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U424	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Although this bill is full of questions, I am still going to the linguistic aspect. Do you think that [amount] 400000 [EUR] for this project "Professional Estonian Teacher in Each Group" is sufficient? Are you planning to move on with this project, or do you have to? Your vision, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U426	Thank you. Firstly, the state invests +1 in the teacher programme of almost EUR 1 and a half million per year, not 400000. This EUR 400000 was in addition to teaching the Estonian language in kindergartens, in addition to this one and a half million. Seeing how many Russian-language kindergartens have already made an effort to ensure that learning is as much in Estonian as possible, I think that this problem is not very great for us that in 2027 or later, if the Riigikogu so decides, kindergartens would meet these conditions. The demand for parents to receive at least part of their education in Estonian is very high. We also have regions in Ida-Virumaa where new groups in full Russian are no longer opened; they are either covered by the +1 teacher program or by the immersion programme. And both, both the implementation of the immersion programme and the implementation of the +1 programme are supported by the state. I think that, at least during this transitional period, the state must definitely continue to support and extend the +1 teacher programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U427	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U428	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still going to these schematics, I see certain dangers here. And I stress that, as has already been said here, the language environment is very important. It is possible that the draft itself would work well in those municipalities where Estonian is the dominant language. But in municipalities where it doesn't exist, it's a problem. Therefore, Martin correctly referred to paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 6, which emphasise that we are talking about kindergarten or kindergarten group. And there are institutions where, let's say, everything is basically in another language and now some Estonian-language groups are created, including 50% of the [Estonian] language usage. And this language must be based on a curriculum where the time-scale of learning and education activities is determined not by the content but by the time-scale. And that's the question, what is it? Well, I'm going to re-energize now that the recess is in Estonian and the lessons are in Russian. How would this thing work and work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U429	Thank you. First of all, you said that teaching is basically in another language and some groups have an exception. No, the teaching is basically supposed to be in Estonian. This is the fundamental change that teaching in the future must be basically in Estonian. If, in a kindergarten or group, the school manager, in cooperation with the kindergarten care centre, decides that Russian-language education may also be applied there, this right shall be granted to the school manager up to a maximum of 50%, both within the groups and in the kindergarten as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U430	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U431	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, How is the new law designed to facilitate the settlement of kindergarten children across local governments? And how big a problem could that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U432	Thank you. This draft does not directly concern the issue of settlement. It will remain the same as in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U433	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U434	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Well, on Child Welfare Day, children's concerns seem to be seriously respected in Parliament. It seems that this is also the greatest opportunity of your time as minister to explain such a draft. I honestly wonder if there was a lively debate in the government. It seems that this draft, which [will] set new frameworks in the new law, has not been discussed by the government. Or what's happened? Why don't you explain a little? Because, indeed, this is an important issue. But today, the Prime Minister was here in Question Time, and it turned out that Minister Sutt made one proposal, the other minister Savisaar sort of put it into practice, and finally the Prime Minister didn't know anything about it because the government hadn't discussed it. It seems to me that this [draft] has somehow gone down like this. Or what's going on? Why don't you guys give me a little more insight?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U435	Thank you. Indeed, the government approved this bill and did not ask for any changes to this bill. The government sent this draft to the Riigikogu for discussion and the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make this draft even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U436	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U437	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your 2000 obstructive proposal on child support. But on the other hand, it's like Truth and Right, Part One. I've read it through [the bill], but since the authors are Tried and Liinas and all kinds of other groups, don't you think it's like a pig doesn't eat it? In fact, it is a law between one and a half and seven years old, and for me it is [important] a very clear formulation of how people can speak Estonian and learn Estonian as a matter of urgency. Here today, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs spoke repeatedly about the UK, so I did not come down to say that the UK has other meaning in Estonian. But that's it. I ask: would you say in rural language whether the content of the draft is Russification of Estonian kindergartens or Slavicisation? After all, many Ukrainian children have come and come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U438	Thank you. I have received a great deal of positive feedback on the whole text of this draft law. The Association of Cities and Municipalities gave feedback that it has been a long time since I had read such a well-written and comprehensive bill. And the purpose of this draft is to provide education in Estonian for every child in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U439	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U440	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! According to the current and also new law, if [finely] such a thing as a minimum wage rises across Estonia, then it should be like happy. But then all the families whose children go to kindergarten are hit by an almost automatic rise. These two things are linked, although they should not be linked, because there is no connection between them. Why are we punishing families by being violently linked to the rise in the minimum wage, which is a good thing in itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U441	Thank you. Indeed, this draft law does not make any changes to the financing system for early childhood education, nor does it alter this specific provision. However, on the basis of their autonomy, many local authorities have decided that the kindergarten place fee is either very minimal or not at all. It's up to the local government. At the level of the law, it is said that this is the maximum limit, isn't it? You can still ask below, you don't have to ask as much as the law allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U442	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U443	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I also attach great importance to private capital and private day-care. I think this is a very important link in our kindergarten network. You referred to the fact that you have received good feedback from the Cities/Cities Association. I believe at least in some part of it. But the proposal they made, you rejected or the Ministry rejected. It is precisely that private day-care centres and municipalities can agree on anything, but the parent decides whether or not he or she accepts the agreement. And investments in kindergarten are very long-term, you can't, like, revisit them overnight or in one year. That was the real point of my last question. But the second question is from this same union of cities and municipalities, it has not been taken into account. The problem is, in fact, that children can only be excluded from kindergarten with the consent of the parent. I understand the general idea of this, but it actually legitimises cases where the parent no longer lives in [specific] municipality and the place fee is not paid, but with the exception of the child still can't, he's holding the place. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These cases have actually been in practice, I dare say, in my own practice...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U444	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U445	Thank you. Indeed, like private day-care centres, children can also leave municipal day-care centres in the middle of a school year for various reasons. Whether the organisation of studies is not suitable or the child's family moves to another local government. And I agree with you that, like private schools, private day-care centres are an important part of our educational network and must be valued and maintained. However, it is certainly not possible to agree with all the proposals on such a matter of principle. There has been very close cooperation with the Union of Cities and Municipalities in drafting this draft, and we have taken very many of these proposals into account. For example, the union of cities and rural municipalities was very critical when, in our initial plan, the size of the groups was smaller than currently allowed by law. The Association of Cities and Municipalities considered that these group sizes should remain the same as they are today and that the right to increase groups should remain. It was also included in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U446	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U447	Thank you very much. Madam Minister! I want to come to the need for 24/7 storage. This topic has been discussed for many years, and we know that there are very many parents who raise children alone, and of course our jobs and work schedules are very different, and many may have to work at different times as normal. There has been talk of this for years, but there are no opportunities for greater flexibility. Have you ever dealt with this subject? Is there anything to wait for, or what do we have to do? These are very necessary things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U448	Thank you. I immediately recall the time of COVID, and this is the time of emergency when it was said that kindergartens must function and also around the clock in cases where a parent is working in hospital night care during an emergency. Then 24-hour kindergartens, as I recall, were put to work. Around-the-clock kindergarten can actually be done by the local government according to the needs of the community. Those people who have this need could signal the local government that there is such a need. If the local authority does not know this, the service cannot be provided either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U449	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U450	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, How does the bill ensure that children's differences are taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U451	Thank you. I described it in more detail earlier that, according to the new law, we have the same level of support for children with special needs as in the general education system: there is an excrement and enhanced support. This support must also be provided to children in kindergarten and is primarily the responsibility of the local government to provide this support to these special children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U452	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U453	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You here all the time stress that there is Estonian-language education and everything is in Estonian, but I look at § 26, which sets out the qualifications requirements for teachers and assistant teachers. But here's everything but the fact that he has to have a certain level of knowledge of the national language. Although it is clear how it is possible to obtain professional qualifications in a foreign country, the importance of the Estonian language, the fact that this qualification has been acquired in Estonian, is not mentioned here. It certainly doesn't match what you've said so far. Why isn't it here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U454	Thank you. Language requirements for educators have been established in accordance with the Language Act. Language requirements for early childhood education teachers are also laid down in another law. That is why they are not mentioned in the Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act, but these requirements certainly also apply to early childhood education teachers. Today, we have 2 300 educational staff in the education system, according to the Language Board, including, for example, assistant teachers in kindergartens, as well as kindergarten teachers whose language level does not meet the prescribed requirements. I think this is a problem that we need to address, that we have teacher qualifications and language requirements in different places today. These we should bring together so that, in addition to the Language Board, the Ministry of Education and Research can supervise the language skills of educators.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U455	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U456	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Paragraph 4 (10) sets out the obligation to provide a day-care centre in accordance with the Emergency Act 24/7. And here's my question, even two questions. How have you considered whether all kindergartens must be prepared for 24 hours a day? And as a result of one of your previous answers: do kindergartens have to keep a table of parents who might need it and, of course, the number of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U457	Thank you. Yes, of course, it would certainly be good for local authorities to know what this need might be. Especially when we talk about an emergency situation, [it might be known] how many children could potentially have needed 24/7 childcare in an emergency situation. I'm sure these kids aren't too many.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U458	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I didn't get an answer to my previous question, but it could be easier, in itself, for local authorities to settle across the board, and it could have fit into this bill. But okay. The next question I have is that a threshold is set for parent participation in a private day-care centre or a safe deposit facility. Have you analysed the court decision regarding the obligation to finance private education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U460	Thank you for your question. If you consider that settlement between local authorities in early childhood education is missing from this bill, I believe that we have time or you have time to make these amendments in the Riigikogu. Perhaps there is some very good solution to how we can solve this problem in the context of this draft. However, we have done analyses of private education funding and places of study in the context of general education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U461	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U462	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The draft law states that the qualification requirements of an assistant teacher are at least secondary education, a babysitter's profession or at least secondary education and pedagogical competence. There were no such qualifications requirements in the past. And here's my question. How many assistant teachers are going to be unemployed now? Or do you have familiar assistant teachers you call and ask them to come to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U463	Thank you. I don't know, you're the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee right now, do you think we have assistant teachers in kindergartens today with basic education? However, I sincerely doubt that these are people with basic education. And the babysitter invitation can be made very conveniently in a number of vocational schools. It's certainly not complicated. And also pedagogical competence can be assessed by people with secondary education. Pedagogical competence can be assessed by the director on the basis of how a person has done his job. Requirements are secondary education and pedagogical competence or secondary education and the babysitter's profession. I believe that most of the more than 3,000 assistant teachers we have working in kindergartens today meet these conditions. And if you don't answer, I'm sorry! They should not work in kindergarten either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U464	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U465	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. That is when a loving mate praises him. But if you're saying that such a good bill hasn't come here before, look at your dear coalition mates today. I don't think they approve, let alone us. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But tell me, let's take this sixth section. Do you not think this should be rewritten [hardly]? And I would also like to congratulate you on your child welfare day for 2000 obstructive improvements to prevent child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U466	I don't think I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U467	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U468	Dear Chairman, Honourable waitress! The EKRE Group invited you to clarify these provisions, in particular those concerning the language of instruction. You initially agreed, but later you refused to come. I see that this law has quite a complex and long-term effect, and in that sense it also needs more explaining work. Shouldn't there be more explaining work in the political groups? You can see how many difficult questions you have and troublesome questions you have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U469	Thank you. The Government has submitted this draft to the Riigikogu and it is the task of the Riigikogu to discuss this draft. And I believe you have a lot of time to discuss this draft very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U470	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U471	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm looking at this coordination table here under the law. [Movement] "Estonian School is a home of Estonian language" has proposed 218: "Add a requirement from the previous 1999 curriculum that the child knows whether he is a boy or a girl. " It's been ignored by the Ministry. Would you mind opening up what the Ministry of Education and Science has against knowing if they're boys or girls? What's the basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U472	Thank you. Certainly also according to the new curriculum [may] children know whether they are boys or girls, but I think already before kindergarten they know whether they are boys or girls. And they are certainly spoken about in the context of general skills. These are things you just don't have to bring out one to one. We'd have an extremely large curriculum if we brought in every elemental thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U473	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U474	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I remember when I was standing there on the remote, instead of you, and when we were in the government, there was a constant screaming about the fact that the minister was obliged to come to the Riigikogu. The minister must report to the political groups when he is called. He doesn't have a chance to say no. Then why didn't you come to our group? Why didn't you come to our group? You didn't answer, you started throwing a ball in our yard, that the government has submitted this bill, now it's up to you to discuss it. By the way, as far as I know, twice in the Committee on Culture your officials have been given a very demanding proposal to clearly formulate this 50% issue. This is clearly what has been called for. Your officials have refused to do this twice. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U475	Thank you. In this case, I was in Tartu that day. As you know, the Ministry of Education and Research has its headquarters in Tartu and I did my duties there and, unfortunately, could not change them. I've been open to the Committee on Culture. I have been invited there, I have presented this draft to the Committee on Culture, and I repeat once again that, if the deadline for submitting amendments is to come up with a 50% amendment, we will try to make this provision more precise, so that the ambassadors of the EKRE Group would also be pleased that this draft law cannot be used in any way maliciously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U476	Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U477	Yeah, it's like I want to stand up for a little minister. Remember, one night it was when all the ministers slept peacefully with the Minister of Social Protection, the Minister of Defence, the IT Minister, and you were the only one who came here in the shadow of the night. So the fact that you didn't come to us in a group, yes, is one thing, but at least that night you saved or at least a little bit saved the face of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U478	A procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U479	Thank you. I would like to ask, Mr President-in-Office, if you could explain how our rules of procedure and home procedures are set out. Mart Helme has already pointed out here how very many reproaches were made to ministers during the previous government when they couldn't be there all over the place when they whistled, and they were very upset about it. But our group actually, very politely, at least more than a week before this planned meeting, asked the Minister if he could come. The Minister himself offered all these times, we agreed to this time, but then just a few days before he announced that he had other things to do. How do you comment on this ambivalent behaviour by the Minister or by ministers at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U480	Thank you. Home and operating procedures do not regulate this issue. It is regulated by this agreement and regulated by political culture. I don't know what else to say here. It has usually been the case that if the political groups ask to come, the members of the government may not be able to do so, but this possibility is found on the basis of a working schedule. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U481	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The draft law states that a kindergarten place will be designated within two months. But I'm wondering if this appointment can be done in any kind of kindergarten within the municipality. We know that today the municipalities have become very large and the cities are also large. Does this bill not stipulate that it will somehow be assigned to the closest place to home, or will the child be assigned to where there is a vacancy, which is a very difficult situation for the parent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U482	Thank you. When determining the place, the principle of parental preference, the proximity of the child's place of residence to the kindergarten and the presence of other children in the same family in the same kindergarten is important. However, it is also possible to direct the child to another municipality in cooperation with another municipality and in agreement with the parent, but I repeat, in cooperation with the local government and the parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U483	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U484	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! In school education, tens of millions were allocated to investment, small-scale and methodological support in the implementation of inclusive education per year. But what tools have you foreseen for kindergartens?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U485	Thank you. For example, we have separate tools to support language immersion in both general education and kindergartens. And we also have a number of different methodological grants for kindergartens. They're not just for schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U486	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U487	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll take your word for it right now. You answered Rena Koka's question and said that the child already knew before going to kindergarten whether she was a boy or a girl. Do I get it right that now, like parents, they can be calm and they don't have to be afraid that there's gonna be an aunt's dolls to sing at kindergarten, or they're gonna come to explain, for example, living in the wrong body or wearing clothes of the opposite sex? Is it settled now that it is not needed, that it will not be explained separately to children in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U488	Thank you. I'm sure kindergartens talk about different topics and talk about what it means to be a girl, which means being a boy. It's through the game, conveniently, age-appropriately, just like it's been done for so many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U489	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U490	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here § 9 (4) provides the obligation to ensure the service of a special pedagogy and logopaedic in kindergarten. As I understand it, these people are missing and will be missing in the future. I don't understand this commitment. If the service is concentrated in centres, do you require the centres to be disbanded or operated in any way, or what should this obligation look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U491	Thank you. Kindergarten managers are local governments and local authorities ensure that these services are guaranteed in kindergartens. The way local authorities do it, for example through child support services or educational support centres, is that if a child is in a kindergarten and is identified as a problem, whether he or she has a special pedagogical or logoped problem, he or she will receive this support. We already have a widespread practice where logos and special education teachers go to different kindergartens in the local government and also to general education schools to advise and work with children. So, yes, not every kindergarten needs to have a full-time logo and a special teacher at work, but this service must be guaranteed by the local authorities for each kindergarten child.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U492	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U493	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that it would be up to the local government to provide support for children with special needs. At the same time, this need is great and will be [in the future] great, but the specialists simply will not continue. We know that, and you actually know that. How do you think, in practice, that the local authority can provide this support properly? And what happens if there is no chance and there is no chance, but the law still prescribes it and demands it? Will parents, if they do not receive the service provided by law, now also have the possibility to sue the local government because they cannot obtain the service provided by law? And do we see that courts are starting to clogged by these complaints, completely legitimate complaints, and the state is going to go to trial with parents or the local government, which is also the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U494	Thank you. According to the current law, the same obligation exists for both municipalities and kindergartens. Nothing changes in this part of the law. According to the current Pre-school Childhood Act, support services must also be guaranteed. And we can see that there may be some cases in court where the child has not received support, but there is certainly no mass. And, of course, it's a problem that these specialists are few. That is why we have also proposed initial support for support specialists in early childhood education in this bill. We have seen that the implementation of this start-up support really brought a significant amount of support to schools, and we very much hope that the implementation of this start-up support, which is EUR 13000 net, will also help to bring more support specialists into early childhood education. For years, the state has increased the order of training for both special needs teachers and logo beets. It is not even a matter of the shortage of specialists anymore, but of the ability to pay competitive wages to these professionals in educational establishments, and therefore they work either in medical institutions or in private companies and offer their services there. But even now, that obligation exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U495	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U496	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you very much. You said there were local authorities who gave you feedback that this was a very good bill. In order not to remain one-sided, I tell you that I know the leaders of local governments who say that this is a very bad bill. And if you don't have that kind of information, of course it's possible to deliver that information to you. Unfortunately, you are trying by law to resolve a matter that cannot be resolved by law. You can't make the language learn by law, you can't make the law love a lot of things can't be done by law. But I have this question for you, very specific. Since you have recently attended a children's institution that speaks Russian or studied Russian, what kind of child institution was it and have you discussed the specifics of children's primary education issues with teachers there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U497	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that there are certainly local authorities who do not like this bill. But this bill was made primarily by highlighting the interests of the child and the family, not by highlighting the interests of the local government. And we have worked very closely with the Cities and Municipalities Association, and I said that the Cities and Municipalities Association has provided feedback that this bill is a well-read comprehensive text. There are certainly also leaders of local governments who are critical. Last week I went to the Russian-language kindergarten in Lasnamägi, Suur-Pae kindergarten and talked there for a long time. This is a kindergarten for 40 years, where from 2014 the language immersion methodology is used, where +1 teachers are used, there are many of them at work and these teachers spoke in a very good Estonian language. I really spent at least two hours there, went to almost all groups, talked to teachers, listened to children, how they sang and read poems in Estonian. This particular kindergarten said that they had nothing against this bill, because they are already actually fulfilling the purpose of this bill. Rather, they said that those children who have been to their kindergarten want to go to immersion classes, but there is not enough immersion classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U498	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U499	Minister, thank you very much. I would still come back to my first question. If we now have this responsibility to ensure that the kindergarten special pedagogy and logopaedic service are delivered to the local government, my question is whether the Ministry will only commit itself or provide the local government with additional resources to organise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U500	Thank you. Local authorities already have an obligation to support their children in need. This bill does not impose any new obligations on the local government. Even now, the local government needs to give full support to its children in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U501	Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U502	Thank you. I'd like to come back to the subject of private day care. According to this draft, the local government unit can also offer kindergarten places in private day-care centres. So now the local government will also provide funding for private day-care centres. Unfortunately, this financial scheme is not going to work out of this bill. I asked the Commission about this, but I didn't get an adequate answer. I thought I'd ask if you could answer now. How will the equal treatment of parents be guaranteed if some parents pay for 100% of the day-care place in a private day-care centre, while the children in this kindergarten are being paid for by the local government? How, then, is equal treatment of parents guaranteed there? It's an inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U503	Thank you. According to this bill, local government has the opportunity to offer a place in a private day-care centre if it does not have the opportunity to offer a parent a place in a kindergarten. But we certainly have parents who have already decided that they want to put their child in a certain private day care facility. It's been a parent's decision. If parents have wanted to put their child in a municipal day care centre and there is no place, then there must be equal treatment with parents who have received a place in a municipal day care centre. In a private day-care centre, they must not be charged a higher place fee than they are in a municipal day-care centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U504	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U505	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, Of course, if you go to kindergarten, you will be shown what you want to see. And, of course, everyone is speaking in Estonian, singing in Estonian. But the problem is, I'm sure you know that there are no pedagogies, that children are taught, that they are prepared for these lessons when you come in and check. How do you intend to ensure that children communicate in Estonian if they are not able to do so? Children usually don't speak any languages between one and three years. How do you plan to arrange for them to learn Estonian among themselves if they do not speak any language?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U506	First of all, this kindergarten had its 40th birthday, and this kindergarten invited me, and I didn't push it myself. And next week I'm going to meet Andrei Kante at her school, which is also a Russian school, and I'm going to listen to their concerns and joys. It is also important to be in contact with the Russian education system and to try to help them as much as possible, and that is what we have done. Indeed, for these children, kindergarten may be the only place where they can hear Estonian. And the Great Pae kindergarten is largely this kind of kindergarten. Teachers said that they have a lot of children who only hear Estonian in kindergarten, and the principle of teaching these children is that one teacher and one language. There are Estonian-language teachers who only speak Estonian with children. And there are teachers who speak to them in Russian. It is not a methodology developed at the end of a generation, it has been studied and it has been considered effective. However, our goal, the good Mikhail Korb, is for all children to learn the language early. Unfortunately, for now, they do not get it straight, not to mention early. Most children have not learned Estonian official language by the end of primary school. And we also know from the study that the sooner language learning is started, the more effective the child learns the language. I know such examples myself and this is confirmed by research: the sooner a child learns the language, the easier it will be, and I think it is the only right way. We are not talking about 100% being [all] kindergartens in Estonian, although generally they should be, but it is still possible to have 50% of Russian-speaking kindergartens. It's a compromise. Very many specialists in the field think that we should switch to Estonian-language education in kindergartens by 100%. Today's draft, however, is a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U507	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U508	Thank you. Madam Secretary, help me understand what's going on in this hall. I have not listened to everything in detail, but this is a bill that was long overdue and has a great social support. All right, the door-side EKRE is against everything as usual. But a coalition partner maybe asks very intensely. Asking people who practically never asked. What is this link between these questions? How do you feel about what's gone wrong or what's going wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U509	I think that the concerns raised by the EKRE here [presented] can be resolved in the Riigikogu so that this 5% requirement is clear. I hope we can work this out. But I am not surprised, nor do I resent, that this draft law is a debate in Parliament. This is a very important bill. With this draft we are trying to ensure that every child has the constitutional right to receive education in Estonian in primary education. That is what is important, and that is what requires a political debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U510	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! You have mentioned several times that you know what parents in Lasnamäe and Ida-Virumaa think about one thing or another. It's because you've talked to them, talked to them, and so on. Well, yeah. The hall is filled with politicians who perfectly understand what democracy in Estonia is. Those people who think differently, or worse, may say something wrong to you, you just don't get close to them in school or kindergarten. But now your opinion. You form that opinion. I always thought it would take a representative anonymous poll to say what one group or another wanted. And now you're replacing all this in your person. The question is technical. Maybe we don't use the services of sociological research companies anymore, maybe we just ask you and you tell me how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U512	Thank you. I was truly sad to hear this question, Mr Mikhail Stalnukhin, Member of the Riigikogu. I have really been to Narva many times as a minister, many times in Jõhvi, many times in Kohtla-Järve, also in Sillamäe. I went to Lasnamägi last week. I've met different educators. Among these educators have been leaders of Russian-speaking schools and kindergartens. I have listened to them and we have been talking about these issues and, of course, I have not said that I am presenting here the perfect overview that anyone thinks. I'm talking about my experience as Minister of Education talking to educational people. This is my experience. Probably you, I understand, have a different experience. But I have my experience. In fact, according to the Human Development Report, we know that 60% of the population in other languages in Ida-Virumaa supports early childhood education in Estonian. In general, we know that this percentage is 76. The majority of them support early childhood education in Estonian, because it gives all children greater opportunities to succeed in Estonia and get better education, better employment. I hope that you too are concerned that on average Russian-language children do not reach higher education institutions as much as Estonian-language children do. Their contribution to society is significantly lower due to poor language skills. We wouldn't want to allow that. I don't think you do either. We want these young people to be able to apply themselves nicely in this society, to develop their knowledge and skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U513	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U514	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, it is nice that your party partner here again accuses other people of having some curiosity about what is contained in this bill. This is extremely deplorable to him. Of course, I would also like to say that your answers are unfortunately not convinced. As a mature man, I can say that I remember the time when the Estonian SSR Minister of Education Elsa Grechkina tried to carry out such human experiments and they collided with the unanimous opposition of society. Unanimous opposition! And now, basically, you're trying to repeat the same human experiment on the larger scale and on the more vulnerable, little children. Why do you hate our children, and why do you destroy the foundation of our education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U515	I won't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U516	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, I would like to join my colleague Ernits' congratulations on the 2,000 proposals on the extension of family allowances transferred on Children's Protection Day [on the subject]. But I ask in this regard: are you not afraid that there will soon be a situation where, because of expensive heating prices and high electricity bills in rural areas, many large families will no longer be able to drive their children to kindergarten? Instead, it is time to lay off teachers, put together kindergartens, because people no longer have money. You rejected the 2,000 changes in order to prevent these large families from receiving at least a little more child support. Can't you see the danger that at some point people have to choose if they're going to take a morning ride to kindergarten or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U518	Thank you. Local authorities are obliged to help families who are in trouble, for example by social transport, if necessary. So I very much hope that no child will be left without going to kindergarten because it is not possible to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U519	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you for the excellent speech you have made here today. I would also like to say that, unlike very many people in this Chamber, I speak excellent Russian and, by the way, I am proud of it. But I can't... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Was that a sign for me? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U521	It was a signal to our colleagues. There's a noise in the hall. Dear colleagues, please be quiet so that the questioner can ask, and those who wish to listen can listen. That was the bell's signal. Please give 25 seconds to the questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U522	Thank you. I ask, knowing the real situation, how many Russian-language parents want to put children in Estonian kindergartens, and knowing how the city of Tallinn works against it. Having been there for many years, my question is to you: Madam Minister, what is going on in Estonia? The people demand education in Estonian, but the decision-makers refuse it. Is this Estonia where we live and are today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U523	Thank you. According to the current law, any child who wishes to receive early childhood education in Estonian must also offer a place to receive early childhood education in Estonian. Based on information from the press, I have realised that not all families in Tallinn who have wanted to receive a child's early childhood education in Estonian have received a place in the Estonian-language kindergarten. But that's press information, I haven't gone to the basics. And now the City Government of Tallinn is actually acting as it is allowed to behave according to the law. The Act allows the school holder to turn the early childhood education institution into a 100% other language, and this has been used by the city of Tallinn and other local authorities. But now, according to this new law, these Russian-language kindergartens must become either 100% Estonian-language kindergartens or at least 50% Estonian-language by agreement between the school manager and the caretaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U524	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! The second question is also technical, and it does not give you the opportunity to spin and not to answer. You have stated at least twice that this bill has been approved by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. They're practically out there fainting out of joy. I have a specific question for you. The executive director of the same union sent the Riigikogu a memo where he described the process and the opinion of the union, everything they thought about this law[of the draft]. Have you met it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U526	Thank you. You speak excellent Estonian. And I believe that you have heard this [phrase] many times, because you have been in the Chamber. I said that the Union of Cities and Municipalities has praised that this is a very good whole text, a well-read and understandable text. Yeah, I've read that recent feedback too. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu will probably also consult with the Association of Cities and Municipalities on whether the draft can make any improvements in the context of the Cities and Municipalities Association. But I say again: this bill is not made for the union of cities and municipalities, but for the interests of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U527	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Perhaps I would not have asked, because I am familiar with this bill, even visited the Committee on Culture before reading it and sending it to the Chamber. But I heard the question from my colleague, Mart Helme. He asked why you wanted to destroy the foundations of Estonian education. I have a feeling that this bill will switch to education in the national language, which should also be the case for one independent country. Now tell me which one's right. Are we going to destroy the foundations of Estonian education, or are we going to a national language education since kindergarten? So I know how to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U529	Thank you. The message of this draft is that, from the age of three onwards, education must be given in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U530	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U531	Thank you. Minister, in any case, I congratulate you. It was long ago time to come up with such a bill, because in Estonia there must be state-language education in schools, kindergartens and everywhere else. But my question is that a couple of days ago, we were working on a bill on family benefits. I asked there whether it would be possible to provide additional services for families, and one of them was precisely the abolition of the place tax for kindergarten. Here today, questions are asked why parents have to pay so much, and so on. Do you really think it would be possible to carry out such services instead of this family allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U532	Thank you. I am deeply convinced that children need high-quality services from the state in particular. For example, today's Estonian Express once again writes about mental health problems for our children. Access to services is certainly essential for children. I understand that such child support certainly has a role to play, but first and foremost, the state must ensure quality services for all children equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U533	Minister, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, Minister. I really didn't see any questions, but are you willing to answer again? I have a request for you, members of the Riigikogu. If there are no questions here, I would like to thank the Minister. Please put this question in first, you know that everyone can ask two questions. But thank you, the minister is willing to respond. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U534	Thank you. I didn't hit the button the first time, so I had to press again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U535	You're so experienced, and you get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U536	Thank you, Mr President. Before the good minister said that municipalities must help those in need. For my part, I'm just going to open up this picture a little bit, that the municipalities are actually in trouble. The same increase in electricity prices: municipalities, also kindergartens, have electricity costs. As a member of the local government at the Kose Vallavoli Council, I can now see how the new kindergarten will not be built there due to rising construction prices and economic costs. Municipalities are also in trouble and the Reform Party has blocked the introduction of a ceiling on electricity prices, the exit from the stock exchange, the reduction of fuel excise duties, all of these measures have been blocked. I'd still ask for your attitude. Mr Rajasalu also spoke about the draft family allowances. How do you feel about your partymates proposing 2 000 amendments to the draft increase in children's and family allowances? How do you personally, good minister, view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U537	Thank you. This really is not my area of responsibility, but I have realised that there were very serious substantive problems with this draft. And the Alliance for Child Welfare drew very direct attention to these substantive problems, whose opinion we could take seriously. It is certainly important to support children and families, but there were many substantive problems in the context of this draft. I believe that certainly in the autumn we will also come back to the issues of how to support children and families in really high inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U538	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U539	Thank you. First of all, I must acknowledge the Minister for Education for saying that I think you have been an exemplary minister in this sense, that you always go into the details and make everything clear to the details, but you also see a big picture. I also asked you in committee, but I had to scratch your answer, because it obviously takes money to implement this bill, and it is money from the state budget. Your answer was that neither the country's budget strategy nor the budget planned for next year have a single cent to implement this draft. My question is this: since I know you are very detailed and precise, what is your plan? How could this law be actually implemented, rather than just one document in the political struggle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U540	Thank you very much. We have an action plan for education in Estonian, and it also has a budget. And I am definitely going to ask for additional money this autumn, for the sake of education in Estonian, and also for the implementation of this Act on Early Childhood Education, so that we can expand the +1 teacher programme, for example, so that we can support even more the implementation of immersion in kindergartens. On the basis of this bill, we expect more and more language immersion groups and Estonian-language teachers to come to Russian-language kindergartens. We see that the trend is very positive; there are more and more of them coming to Russian-speaking kindergartens. And the state will certainly come to the aid of local authorities to have more specialists and informed teachers to use the language immersion method.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U541	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U542	Thank you. I didn't really get an answer. I understand that this is hope, and I suppose we should hope, but by the end of the evening, the state budget negotiations are the ones that will be agreed whether this money will come. My first question is: what do you think and predict what this sum could be? And the other half. While you indicated that municipalities and cities and municipalities had nothing to do with this bill, the area of education is still very clearly their responsibility. How do you see this side? I can see that a great deal of responsibility is being put on the shoulders of the local authorities by the state with this bill, but this, I think, is not right in that sense that if we do not give resources to the local authorities from the state budget but give them tasks, I do not think that this is a principle that we should be guided by. If we give the mission, we should give the money. Where do you give the guarantee that money will come with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U543	Once again, local authorities are also obliged to support and provide support services to children in need of assistance. Local authorities are also currently obliged to offer early childhood education in Estonian. This obligation is still there. It is simply an exception to the law, and we are now changing this exception so that all Estonian children have equal opportunities to develop, participate in the Estonian-language education system, reach higher education institutions, get good jobs. This is the goal and it is still the task of the local government. But in order to implement the activities of the Estonian-language education action plan, I would like to ask you from now on, in the order of 14.6 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U544	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U545	Madam Secretary! You and I have always tried to explain that a child needs a service rather than cash from the state. In most of them, it's the family side. But help me explain what we just heard. We heard a question about the need for financial cover for the transition to Estonian. But we have just received a bill that has presented several dozen times the sum of money without any financial cover and outside any government or budget process. How do you think that's gonna happen? Are there any agreements that 300 million is less than 14 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U546	Thank you. The government must, of course, calculate the cost of implementing the draft in its own drafts. And the state still supports local authorities in providing early childhood education. EUR 15 million per year for local authorities to pay the salaries of early childhood education teachers as well as support staff. This [the money] is still being received by the State. But in any case, the government counts the money and takes into account that there are costs when adopting draft laws. Of course, the Riigikogu should also do this, but we have a parliamentary state and if the majority of the Riigikogu decides to adopt one law and it has costs, then it is the task of the members of the Riigikogu to draw attention to it. But somehow preventing it is difficult when a parliamentary majority is behind this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U547	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U548	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! We all know that there are two separate communities in Estonia: the indigenous people Estonians and the Russian-speaking community. Do you think that, in implementing this bill, our young people will come closer to each other and one of the population of the Estonian state will emerge?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U549	This bill will certainly help to ensure that our second-language children are able to learn the national language more quickly and thus their opportunities to operate in Estonia will expand significantly and reduce inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U550	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U551	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you became Minister of Education, the Riigikogu trusted you. But your office of minister has revealed very serious problems in the organisation of public procurement. Some cases have been the subject of proceedings, and the future is still unknown about some of them. You have now answered Tõnis Möldri's question that you are asking for money to implement the programmes provided for in this bill. Tell me, please, a very simple question: why must we believe your words in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U552	Thank you. Has anyone found out I've been lying? I don't know that I would have lied. And if you refer to procurements, your statement in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office has confirmed that nothing criminal has been done in carrying out these procurements and there is no reason to launch criminal investigations. Today I went to the Ministry of Finance and gave statements about two episodes of misdemeanour. They concerned not the first procurement, but the second procurement, the expansion of this procurement. And I was repeatedly told that just because I'm giving statements doesn't mean I'm guilty that I've done something wrong. It is now being investigated whether I, Liina Kersna personally, have done something wrong in organising these procurements. I would like to remind you that this second procurement, which the Ministry of Finance is currently handling, received 17 companies to participate in this procurement, and the extension of this framework agreement was suggested to us by the State Support Services Centre itself. The State Support Services Centre is a centre with top public procurement specialists and I certainly had no reason to doubt the expertise of public procurement specialists of the State Support Services Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U553	A procedural question. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out to you that the honourable minister is being asked questions that do not concern this bill for a poke. Questions are asked about public procurement. It's not correct. Please make a note and don't let that happen!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U555	Thank you. I will intervene if, in this debate, [I think], there is a complete departure from the subject of the debate. But thank you for bringing this to my attention. Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U556	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, With my question, I would like to address the music sector, music education in the early childhood education phase. I've got this ringtone in my ears that there's a problem, like there might be a problem. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Could you give me a little bit of a description of what this problem could be? Because indeed, giving musical education, dealing with music in kindergarten is very important for early childhood education. I still remember that in music class, I was sent to play after another song, because somehow I distracted others. But that's a good memory. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U557	Thank you. I can see where that trouble might come from. With this bill, as I said earlier, we are giving kindergartens greater flexibility and autonomy. At the level of the law, we say that there must be a director, head of study, teachers, assistant teachers and support staff in kindergarten. The rest of the team can be formed by the director and the head of study at their discretion. But music education is perfectly available in the early childhood education curriculum, so children will definitely continue to sing, move and perform other age-appropriate tasks in kindergartens. But probably that's where the trouble came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U558	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U559	Thank you, Mr President. I have to clear up the moment that my esteemed colleague, Ivi Eenmaa, reproached me here. The question is, I was talking about your trust issue, and trust was linked to your previous actions. And since you handled this subject nicely here, I mean this misdemeanour procedure, I have this question to add to it. Mr Kallas, when he touched on this question in Question Time, specifically said that Minister Liina Kersna had come to him to ask for his consent as to whether or not she was allowed to tender, and that is recorded, that is proof. The question is: is Prime Minister Kaja Kallas involved in this procedure because he favored the act you have done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U560	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! On 26 October, the government instructed the Ministry of Education and Research to organise rapid testing in all schools, i.e. testing school families at least twice a week, as from 1 November. So it was the government's decision that the Ministry of Education and Research started to implement. And once again, the supervision of the Ministry of Finance has also assessed that the Ministry of Education and Research, including the Minister of Education, acted correctly in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U561	Good fellows, I'm going to ask you if there are any more questions. No, it's not. I'll end the round of questions. Minister, I thank you once again for your report and your answers. No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Culture Jaak Valge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U562	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to have a rather boring talk, because this draft was discussed in essence only at a meeting of the Commission, and at another meeting of the Commission there was a debate about whether it would be discussed further, or whether it would be sent to plenary immediately. And at this first meeting, I had the impression that the minister and officials would rewrite these disputed language issues for the next time, but this did not happen. I do not have any important new substantive information from the Commission compared to what has been said here for several hours. But I guess I'll just have to do my chronicle duty, and I think I'll try to highlight a little more important things. The meeting of 19 April was chaired by me and attended by all the members of the committee, with the exception of the chairman of the committee who could not be present, and was replaced by Tõnis Mölder. In addition, you were invited by the Minister of Education and Research, you know his name, Liina Põld, Deputy Chancellor of General Education and Youth Policy at the Ministry of Education and Research, and Triin Rass, Head of Preschool Education. Liina Põld gave us an overview. I'm not gonna copy it, it's been here in different uniforms today, and I'm gonna hear it. He said that according to the draft, the language of kindergarten is Estonian from the age of three and the local government must continue to provide all children with the opportunity to attend a kindergarten or group with the Estonian language of instruction. A second language of instruction may also be used in a kindergarten or group if the board of trustees so requests and if there is a teacher who speaks the relevant language. At the same time, the volume of the Estonian language of study must be guaranteed for at least 50% of the weekly period of study and education activities. The field added that this language requirement would not be imposed on childcare. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked her what it was like to lose the queues of Liina Põld to say that it would probably shorten the queues and whether the local government would tell her where the child was going. Liina Põld explained that the parent has at least three preferences in his application and that if the local government does not have the right place to offer, he must continue to rely either on the closeness of the child's place of residence or on attending nursing-brother kindergarten. Liina Kersna supplemented her, and the local government has the opportunity to cooperate with private day-care centres when offering kindergarten places. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked whether local authorities could cope with the burden on them. According to Minister Liina Kersna, it is the task of local authorities to provide children with a safe-keeping place and to make the necessary investments. Jaak Juske was interested in a number of questions about the place fee for kindergarten, for example why there is no free kindergarten place included in the bill. The Minister replied that the local authority could decide on the amount of the fee it would charge. Jaak Juske was not satisfied with this and said that the place payment is a matter of local life, but early childhood education is a public education and should also be a national interest. If basic education is free of charge, then free early childhood education is also justified. The Minister said that early childhood education is not compulsory in Estonia. If you decide that the last year of kindergarten should be compulsory in the future, you should definitely not be able to take it. Jaak Juske also asked why the amount of the kindergarten place fee in the draft is not linked to the minimum wage. He commented that the connection of the place fee to the minimum wage was violent and harmful to families. Marko Šorin referred to strengthening the role of the councils and asked what would happen if the board did not cooperate. The Minister said that the Council's opinion must, however, be asked, but it is not binding. Then we came to the core questions. Namely, Moonika Helme referred to § [8 paragraph] 2 of the current Pre-School Children's Institution Act, according to which the local government guarantees all Estonian-speaking children the opportunity to visit the same rural municipality or city's Estonian-language children's institution or group of children's institutions where education and education activities are carried out in Estonian. According to § 6 (3) of the draft to be processed, the municipality must provide the Estonian language of instruction up to 50% to the child of Estonia. And Moonika Helme asked why such a change has been made, which makes the conditions for Estonian children worse, as kindergarten owners are given the opportunity to make Estonian-language kindergartens 50% Russian. Liina Kersna confirmed, as she has stated here, that the amendment to the draft concerns only today's Russian-language day-care centres, so that they have at least 50% of Estonian-language education. And now it's a big place. The Minister agreed that the risks presented in the draft should be mitigated. If the wording is confusing, it needs to be clarified. It's a quote from the protocol. Mr Helme proposed that it be worded in this way in the draft. Very logical. Liina Põld also confirmed that the Estonian child does not have to study in any other language.. This is the protocol, for some reason, that it is written "Estonian Child," with a large letter, and that the Estonian language of instruction is written in subsection 6 (2) of the draft. The field said that if the wording of paragraph 3 is confusing, it should be clarified. Mr Mölder asked the same question as he asked the minister here, and the minister replied exactly as he did in the committee. Moonika Helme proposed that § 6 (1) of the draft be formulated in such a way that the language of kindergarten education from three-year-old children is 100% Estonian to be clear. And to delete § 6 (3) it is still [paragraph] 3. It gives the possibility to withdraw from it. Helme said that according to the draft, the municipality must provide a day-care centre for all children living on the territory of the municipality. If there is no municipal place, you can get a place in a private day care centre under the same conditions. And Helme asked what would happen if the private day care centre didn't agree to it. Minister Liina Kersna replied that there is a so-called child bounty in education that is not linked to a specific institution but is accompanying the child. Now, Priit Onion, I did not say before that he replaced Viktoria Ladynskaja with the words that § 6 (3) of the draft refers to day care. Onion asked if, for example, in the case of Tallinn, the kindergarten manager was executive or Tallinn City Council. Liina Põld replied that the kindergarten manager is a council. Priit Sibul said that these 250 professional language teachers in kindergarten groups, which the Minister had previously spoken about, were the absolute minimum. He also came back to losing the queues: it sounds nice, but it means money for local governments. If there is no money coming from the state, laws and declarations can be written, but nothing will change in reality. Minister Kersna replied that with regard to language requirements, the realistic plan was to reach the point of reaching a full-time Estonian teacher in all groups by 2027. Marko Šorin asked whether, if the private day-care centre provides an enormously expensive service, the municipality would have to pay for the whole difference or compensate only for a certain part of the service. And Liina Põld replied that the local government must be able to control the cost limit that she is compensating for. Marko Šorin said that, unfortunately, this draft does not solve the shortage of kindergarten places in those regions where this has continued to be the case. Tõnis Mölder said that teaching in Estonian should be encouraged and that additional financial resources would be required. but this bill does not bring these financial resources. Mr Mölder pointed out, another problem, that the draft had a number of two-to-one points. He proposed to ask for an opinion on the draft of the Riigikogu's problem committee on the development of Estonian language learning. Tõnis Mölder also said that it was proposed in the debate to deal with the pure writing of § 6 this is the same language paragraph. And Mr Mölder asked that since no amendments could be made to the draft text before the first reading, could the Commission then propose that the government should withdraw the draft. In the meantime, it had happened that some of the representatives of the Reform Party had asked for permission to leave and asked whether we were taking procedural decisions. I had replied that we did not make any procedural decisions. And then, since the proportions in the Commission had changed, I did not respond positively to Mr Möldr's proposal. That would have been a violation of the promise. So I proposed that this session be closed and come back to Mr Möldr's proposal in the next debate. And that next one was on May 12. There was nothing nice about it. For about an hour, it was argued whether procedural decisions should be taken immediately or whether the HTM should change the text before the draft text, as some Members of the Commission felt last time, in my opinion too, was agreed on the previous occasion. Others felt that there was no such agreement. So, there were some alternate members. Kristen Michal was Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's alternate and I guess there was no more. It makes no sense for me to start reading these officials here because nothing substantive was discussed there. Mr Michal proposed that the draft be sent to plenary and that the first reading be concluded. I proposed that the draft be suspended and continued when the Ministry has made the change they have promised, or the Minister has confirmed that the Ministry will not make the change before the first reading. And then there was a vote. 6: Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Kristen Michal, Margit Sutrop, Marko Šorin, and Signe Stone. By 4: Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Valge, Lauri Läänemets and Üllar Saaremäe. Lauri Läänemets was also an alternate member of the committee meeting. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Commission, proposed that I be appointed rapporteur for the Commission and that the draft be put on the agenda for today and that the first reading be closed. The consensus was that I am the representative of the lead committee and today is the time for proceedings in plenary. And then there was a separate vote on whether to finish the first reading. There was a six on that side. Well, that split was just like last time. By Signe Kivi, Kristen Michal, Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop and Marko Šorin, Helle-Moonika Helme, Üllar Saaremäe and Jaak Valge were opposed. One was also impartial; it was Lauri West Forest. Thank you! I hope I've saved a nice time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U563	Yes, but there are no questions, all the questions have already been asked, so there is nothing more than moving on to the negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin has first expressed his wish for negotiations. Please! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U564	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have three messages to give you. One. Madam Minister's reply was several times satisfied with the full text of the Union of Cities and Municipalities. However, with the signature of the Union's Executive Director, we received a memo describing how this bill was discussed in this Union. I'm gonna have to read you a few paragraphs. The draft was submitted to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities for coordination on 3 January 2022, after which the Union asked its members to provide feedback on your draft. 28 local authorities submitted their proposals and comments. On 26 January 2022, the Union submitted a letter of reply to the Ministry of Education and Research on the basis of the feedback received from its members. According to this, the Cities and Municipalities Association agreed to pay attention to: "coordinated" in the case of consideration of the comments and proposals in the letter of the draft law on early childhood education and care. The Ministry of Education has not given any feedback as to why we have been disregarded for important proposals. Since this separate meeting with HTM on the draft has not taken place. Neither has there been a financial analysis by HTM of the financial obligations that the amendment of the law entails for the local authorities, nor a reference to where the costs are covered. A draft was submitted to the Government of the Republic on 31 March. On 7 April the Government of the Republic submitted the draft to the Riigikogu. Although some of the comments and suggestions made by the Association of Cities and Municipalities have been taken into account according to the coordination table included in the draft material on the Riigikogu's website, important comments and proposals have not been taken into account. Among the most important provisions which cannot continue to be accepted, we mention § 4 (2), § 6. Language of instruction The need for teachers of Estonian language as well as the deadline for the transfer of § [38] (2) and bringing them into compliance with the requirements of kindergarten activities. As important comments were not taken into account, it can be said that in essence the draft cannot be considered to be coordinated. So first message: The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities did not coordinate this draft. Two. We often hear from this courtroom that what is being done is being made of Russian families for the benefit of children. This is so great, it makes their cooperation more effective in our society. These forms are so foreign to me, especially after I heard on Monday this week how one of the most famous members of the Reform Party said that we are raising child benefits, not to raise the ive of Estonian children, but to remember, on Monday he asked: nationalists, do you realize that this increases the age of children of other nationalities? And it was clear that he thought it was extremely negative. So this attitude, I believe more about Mr Kallas than about saying nice words here, knowing that there are no teachers, and not making any effort to get them from anywhere. So all these speeches on section 6 [on topic] are one decoy duck, which must draw our attention away from the simple fact that this bill, with enormous force, travels into the local governments of the Republic of Estonia. And that's the third message. A lot of people in this hall, I think most of us are members of a town or a parish council. With what eyes will I personally look at my colleagues when this law is passed and, God forbid, with my help? After all, this puts additional responsibilities on the table. I'll just give you a few examples. Paragraph 8, [paragraph] 7: If a child in a group is enhanced or secreted, the limit for children in the group is lower than in other kindergarten groups, given that one child receiving enhanced support fills three places and one child receiving excrement fills six places. There are 18 kindergartens in Narva. Suppose they have 18 children at the same time, one child in each kindergarten who requires excretion. Take, for example, a group of children between three and seven years of age with up to 20 children, this is paragraph 2 of the same section, and there must be one child in demand. Then we have the standard met if this group has 20 minus 6 plus 1, a total of 15 children. I mean, five kids are out of sight. 18 kindergartens times 5 is 90. We have four groups of kindergartens with 80-100 children. This practically means that, in order to avoid such a situation in the future, we should get a new kindergarten somewhere that just stands there waiting for something to happen. There is a great deal of similar things here in the bill. Paragraph 4 (1): The local government unit ensures that all children between one and a half years of age can attend kindergarten. In the current version he creates opportunities. You are perfectly aware of the difference: 'ensure' means fulfilling certain conditions in Estonian so that something can be achieved. I'd be sure! I have to make sure of that. What do you want me to do about it? If I'm a kindergarten manager, I'm gonna have to keep one group in every age group somewhere, so if there's a situation like this, I can solve this problem in two months. And there are so many of these things here in this bill that we came up with a number of 200 that is the number of amendments that need to be made to make this bill more or less fit into real life. That is why so many questions are being asked here today, not for political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U565	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U566	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! I would like to say at first: uh, we witnessed a very historic moment here this evening. There was a situation in the history of democracy in Estonia where the government in office was no longer, as it were, and the new government was not yet officially. It was pretty hard to watch two government parties today have been in a friendly firefight, as they say in the military field. Looking at how Mrs Kersnat was bombarded with questions by the Central Party, it seemed that Estonia had a basically minority government this evening, led by the Reform Party, and which also includes the Centre Party. And the outlines of this new emerging, reborn EHRIK were also beautifully seen in this hall. But I now come to this bill, which is a very long-awaited draft and a very voluminous draft. The Social Democrats are relatively critical of this draft. As I said at the beginning, our group has sent the Ministry a number of questions, several dozen rather critical questions, by kindergarteners. We have also received answers. We're not quite happy with them. But, in our group's view, the most important moments and shortcomings, certainly, as has already been pointed out many times today, one is that there is no financial analysis of this draft, which has a very strong financial impact. Indeed, our local authorities are quietly subject to new obligations, but there is no guarantee that it will be accompanied by financial resources from the state budget. The Minister has rightly said that the law has already imposed a number of obligations on rural municipalities and cities and that they have to comply with them. Yeah, that's true. But the state, or government, must also provide the necessary funding and sources of funding, but in the case of these new obligations, they are generally, let us be honest, have not, or at least the Riigikogu did not see or hear them today. The second issue, which was also passionate, is the question of language. Social Democrats support the transition to a common Estonian-language education system and it must start as early as possible from kindergartens. Today's draft sets the goal of being an Estonian-language early childhood education. Yes, there is a transitional period, because today we are clearly not ready for this, there are not enough teachers. We hope that the Ministry will take this challenge seriously and that these teachers will really be trained for the necessary moment. But, of course, this window remains that it is also possible for school holders and kindergarteners to decide that there are kindergartens on the 50:50 principle. But in order to really become clear in these mixed language kindergartens in the future, we think it is important that the method of language immersion and its implementation be included in this law. Because indeed, if we want a single Estonian-language school, it must start in kindergartens. This is a very right and necessary objective. We have been very critical for years in terms of today's model of day-care funding. It is extremely absurd that the new bill also retains the place fee in relation to the minimum wage. These two things are like pigs and cuckoos, which are not related or should not be related, but unfortunately they remain in the new law. The rise in the minimum wage is, in itself, a very good goal, but why are we punishing families with this raise, who automatically raise the pay for the place in kindergarten? These two things need to be separated. A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U567	Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U568	And there is still a more radical step involved, for which the Social Democrats have been really talking about years ago. In fact, the state must come to the aid of local governments, the state and rural municipalities together should ensure that early childhood education will also be free of charge for families in Estonia in the future, because we have all the remaining levels of education free of charge today and this is the lowest, the most important foundation, or early childhood education, for families. Early childhood education is part of a comprehensive education system and therefore, together, we must make an effort to find these funds and make early childhood education fully available free of charge for families. These are issues that concern the social democrats. And if this bill with many question marks is to remain in Riigikogu proceedings at all today, if this new government union that is born does not exclude it from the proceedings, then, of course, there are a lot of amendments to be tabled here and this bill still needs to be worked out. Today, it's certainly far from becoming a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U569	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U570	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who looks at us! I wish you, first of all, a happy day of child welfare! It's a great day that should cheer us all up. But now for this bill. The baselines of this draft law were already being developed in 2015 and have been developed and developed in 2016‐2021. There are hugely relevant stakeholders involved, but not all of them, of course, but those who are obviously fit for the end result. A great deal of international developments in early childhood education and care have been analysed. This is where the most progressive progressive child care practices have been put in place. But what do we see? On our table there is a draft law that is crude in the sense of the bill, with many understandable texts and does not work in real life. There are several problems with this draft. First of all, it does not solve the main task that society is facing, that is to say, the transition to education in Estonian from kindergarten onwards, so that in the end our schools will be all in Estonian and that our country will function fully in Estonian. I'm sorry, but this bill will never bring 100% of the Estonian-language kindergarten. Rather, it gives those who want to stretch the tire of foreign language an opportunity to stall infinitely, and it allows for the insane immigration that the current government has established. Under the conditions of such immigration, there are increasing and increasing numbers of those who wish to do so. This draft does not make other nationalities acquire the Estonian language, as they have a 50% back door open for communication and education in their own language in pre-school children's institutions. And what's the saddest part? Estonian children will be deprived of the guarantee in their own country that they will be able to communicate, live and learn in the 100% Estonian language and pro-minded environment at the tenderest age. We're talking about a nursery and kindergarten here. § 8 [paragraph] 2 of the Act on pre-school children's institution currently in force states: the local government council guarantees all Estonian-speaking children the opportunity to visit the same rural municipality or city's Estonian-language children's institution or group of children's institutions where education and education activities are carried out in Estonian. According to this draft, the municipality must provide only 50% of the Estonian language of instruction to the Estonian child. The Estonian language of study and the Estonian kindergarten are not overlapping concepts and is an unconstitutional Estonian group to replace a group with a mere Estonian language of instruction. If in 2022 several Estonian municipalities have not wanted or managed to provide Estonian-language groups for Estonian children, the law will be amended so that it will no longer need to be done. It doesn't make any sense! In several areas of Estonia, local governments are given free hands to start Russing Estonian children. Or what do you call a situation where Estonian children are sometimes outnumbered in the group of kindergartens with Estonian language, you have to speak Russian for the game, and the teacher's help does not speak Estonian? According to this draft, there must also be only one teacher who knows the Estonian language at the C1 level, and another language can be used for teaching up to 50%. It is very suitable for children in other languages, but not for children who speak Estonian as their native language. In Estonia, an Estonian child must be able to attend an Estonian-language kindergarten or group that focuses on ensuring that the Estonian child acquires his or her native language very well, rather than being treated as an integration tool and a language teacher. The objective of the Minister of Education is, of course, correct, but it cannot be achieved if a school or kindergarten is simply declared in Estonian with some ukase and then another ukase promotes mass immigration. There are already schools and kindergartens in Estonia, where Estonian children have remained in a linguistic minority since the arrival of Ukrainian children. The group will remain in Estonian only if there are at least 90% of Estonians, which will provide the rest with sufficient language skills to go to the Estonian-language school. This group of officials who introduced this bill to us is, of course, well characterized by the fact that, for example, the educational centre, which also helps to address the Estonian language in early childhood education, came up with the reply from the Ministry of Education and Research that "the local government guarantees the Estonian child a kindergarten or group" was not included in the new law because the kindergarten itself cannot be in Estonian because it is a building. They don't really speak Estonian anymore, or they don't have functional reading skills when they confuse the building and the institution. Or maybe it's just an order to push everything through. There's just no logical explanation. Another very important problem of this draft is the ideology of inclusive education, which has already begun to inhibit and disengage our education system and our normal learning environment. It frustrates pedagogues and puts them on responsibilities that they cannot and should not fulfil, because the teacher's primary task is to teach their subject in the best way and pass on knowledge. Instead, they have to deal with the work of a special pedagogy, a social worker, a support person or a psychologist, because there are simply not enough specialists in schools, but there are children who need them. The system has pushed the ideology of inclusive education down on everyone, speaking beautiful words about child-friendliness, caring and taking into account others, individual learning paths and everything else. But the result is the opposite: the school environment is nervous, anxious, full of tension, conflict, unreasonable burden, and children's learning outcomes and teachers' motivation go down. The reason is simple: ideology goes ahead with long steps, but money does not catch up or it would be better to say that there is not enough money and there is not enough money. And now we are creating the same situation in pre-school children's institutions with this pre-primary education law. The state places great responsibilities on the owners of children's institutions, i.e. on the municipalities, but the money, that is not what it is or will not be. Find yourself, because the parents who need this service are the taxpayers of the local government. That's where taxes take the money you need, the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research told us at the Commission when we asked about the financial side of this bill. And here comes the third issue of this draft, which is no less important. Unfortunately, we are seeing another extremely dangerous attitude to parliamentary democracy here. This is something we have already encountered several times here during this government, and there is a way in which draft laws are dealt with in the Riigikogu. As I said at the beginning, this draft has been drawn up by the authorities for a very long time and in essence. Of course, if its content were actually in line with what is stated in our constitution and would be applicable in practice, but it is not, it could, in essence, be a very necessary draft. However, it was introduced in the Commission for only an hour, and in the course of which a number of doubts arose about § 6 [paragraph] 3, the wording of which was also agreed by the Ministry of Education and Research that it should be rewritten because it is ambiguous. Unfortunately, at the next meeting of the Commission, the HTM withdrew from this point of view and this draft law was sent to a large hall for processing. This process, where an unthinkable, unimplementable and untextual draft law has been brought to the large hall, is unacceptable to us, and therefore at first reading the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the 579 SE so that the Ministry of Education can follow good lawmaking practice and come back to us with this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U571	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U572	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Minister for Education Liina Kersna, on behalf of the whole Group of the Reform Party, for drafting the draft for early childhood education. This is a very signicant and meaningful step for the entire Estonian education system, for our future, which reduces segregation and the unequal opportunities that arise in the beginning for children for whom the language issue closes very many doors. Second. I'd like to settle one more thing. I would like to apologise to you now, Liina Kersna, as a member of the Riigikogu, for the personal insults you have to endure in this Chamber by introducing the draft law, which are in no way suitable for this hall and which you do not deserve in any way. I'm sorry! But now from this bill, looking back in history for a moment. I was just curious when this bill came to the discussion. The kindergarten has, by the way, played a very important role in the Estonian cultural history, especially in Estonian. The first national kindergarten was born in Tartu. In 1905, the Tartu Kindergarten Society was established as a subunit of the Tartu Estonian Farmers' Association, who opened the first Estonian-language and pro-Estonian kindergarten on 23 May, where 70 children came on the first day. The curriculum was modernly built according to observers and, by the way, is a very interesting knowledge: already at that time there was information that the child should be taught through the game. We also know that at the time, the aim of the previous century's kindergarten was to teach the children Estonian language by using songs, games, folklore, folk tales, puzzles and sayings. From the beginning, musical and handy activities came in, and the most important part was the knowledge of the homeland and, according to this era, the incitement of patriotism. This kindergarten system was the basis for the principle of a school of harmonisation, as formulated in 1910, where, among other things, the importance of education, which is directly related to the kindergarten, is also emphasised in addition to teaching. This legislative amendment has led to a number of differences of opinion, just as we have seen in this Chamber today, and, obviously, some fears concerning the language issue. But we have the time to do so, which is sufficient to operate and unite different cultural spaces, creating better conditions for these young people in the future, better conditions for their own country, more equal opportunities in the labour market and so on. According to an integration monitoring survey conducted in 2020, Estonian residents are in favour of early education in Estonian. 76% of Estonian people believed that Estonian language education should start from kindergarten, including 89% of Estonians and 66% of native speakers. The effectiveness of early language learning is also confirmed by brain and language studies, as the Minister spoke here in his opening speech and explained when answering some questions. This legislative amendment is child-centred and takes account of children's rights. This aims to improve broadly the following: Firstly, childcare and kindergartens are integrated into a comprehensive education system. Secondly, the conditions for applying for a day-care position will be improved. Thirdly, the aim is that by 2027 there will be at least one full-time teacher in each group who speaks Estonian. Fourthly, the qualification requirement for the headmaster and headmaster of kindergarten has been raised and for the first time qualification requirements have also been introduced for assistant teachers. And fifthly, the organisation of the provision of support services is changed, which is not of any minor importance to this bill. Tell me, is there anything here that doesn't make our country's early childhood education stronger? I can't find any. According to the draft law, the language of kindergarten education is Estonian from the age of three and by 2027 there must be at least one full-time teacher in each group who speaks the Estonian language. After all, education in Estonian is also a priority in the country as a whole. According to the Education Information System, there were 3071 groups of children between three and seven years of age in kindergartens between 2020 and 2021, of which 411 has a Russian language of study. There were 396 groups with Russian language in municipal day care centres. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U573	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U574	... of which 153 have recruited an Estonian-language teacher with the help of the national defence project "Professional Estonian teacher in a group with Russian language of instruction" who supports the acquisition of children's Estonian language skills both in teaching and education activities and in daily activities. And it has received a lot of positive responses when you have followed the subject in the media. Finally, we also have a coalition agreement on the transition to education in Estonian. It's signed. It would be very interesting to see if anyone has changed their principles. Even if this bill needs clarification, we have time to discuss and propose amendments. It is bad and irresponsible to keep people who deserve all the opportunities for common education separated. Whose interests would that serve? Everything can be improved, improved, improved for our country and for the children living in our country. It's not complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U575	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U576	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian-language education has been the core of the history for the Fatherland Party. From this point of view, this draft is certainly a step in the right direction and a very, very important step. This should probably be said several more times, that we could have taken these steps much earlier, but better late than never, so the right draft in the transition to Estonian education. Is that enough? Well, that's what we can discuss, I hope, still in this Chamber. However, I am absolutely convinced that improvements must be made, and the Isamaa Group is also convinced that improvements can improve this draft. We will certainly come up with our suggestions for improvement. But a few keywords about the flaws that this bill has. There really is work to be done here. First of all, the appointment of a music and movement teacher is out of the bill. Hirvo Surva, the general and artistic director of our last Song Festivals, has drawn attention to this. These are, in fact, heartfelt words of concern that he has said, and he has said, in fact, that it will put our song and dances under attack in the long term, in the long term. I'm sure you can't accept that. We need to think about how we will formulate it. Of course, I believe that our municipalities will continue to do a good job and will also contribute to the preservation and continuation of our culture, but we also know that if this is not specifically stated in the law, some municipalities may also be tempted to optimize and this is certainly not good for Estonian culture in the current funding conditions. Just as it is not good to alienate from exercise. We talk every day about our children being overweight. Sports are moving away, they're not moving enough. This would still require very clear wording in the law at the level of early childhood education. Now, the second issue is also related to municipalities. Here too, private day care centres and private day care facilities were asked. The Isamaa Party has been thinking this through the ages that the private sector is very important. The more private sector we have, the better. The more we can give tasks to the private sector, the better. Unfortunately, this bill takes a step backwards and creates a situation where municipalities must start investing themselves in municipal day-care centres, because parents are entitled at any moment to say that they want to put [their child] in a municipal day-care centre. And that must be guaranteed within two months. Well, you realize that in two months, a new kindergarten will not be built, and if there are few kindergarten places, it will certainly cause serious problems. Just as there are problems [the provision] according to which a child cannot be excluded from kindergarten. I understand this great noble idea. Indeed, children must be cared for and protected. But at the same time, we must be aware that we are not so rich that we can create a system that allows us to hold the kindergarten place, even though the child may go to another municipality in kindergarten... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U577	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U578	... or resides abroad, but his seat is reserved because the parent has not given consent [it shall be released]. This is definitely not a situation we should enter into the law. We're just not rich enough to treat our common wallet like that. There's been a lot of talk about that here too. So, to sum up, we could say that we really need to work on this draft. We are convinced that together we will certainly be able to make this better. And we really need to think about not creating unnecessary bureaucracy. There are places in the bill where bureaucracy can be reduced. We need to trust the private sector more, that is important. And once again, finally, the transition to education in Estonian is a core issue for the entire Estonian society. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. Is that fast enough? Well, I hope that we will all give this speed strength here for our part, and we will also find the resources for good early childhood education for the municipalities. The municipalities will then be able to provide our children with early childhood education, which we consider to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U579	Thank you. There are no more requests and I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 579, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposed to reject the draft 579 at first reading. That's what we have to vote for and call the public hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft Act on Early Childhood Education and Childcare, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 579 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-01_U580	[[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
