ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U1	Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Once again, I will return to what is the point of obstruction. The point of the obstruction is that it would have been possible to discuss and find a solution to the same questions that were discussed by the questioners. We couldn't find it now. You're talking about a war situation. We can't define a war situation like that. We have a war situation in Europe. We're part of securing the rear. It would have been exactly the same thing to say that there was a war situation when there was a war in Afghanistan. Then we were directly at war with our men, but we didn't say there was a war. So these are two different things. God forbid there would be any direct military action in the Estonian state. In order to avoid direct military action, our proposal was also to increase the cost of defence, and to increase in this key so that we really have the capacity to face up to the enemy and to face the enemy quickly, so that this war would not come to us. Do you think these defence costs are enough that you put in there right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U3	Thank you for that question. The war is currently being waged against the West as a whole. Indeed, whether we are talking about an energy war, we are talking about information attacks or cyber attacks, which can have very serious consequences, it is all much wider today than what is happening in Ukraine and it directly affects us. These proposals, the decisions contained in the supplementary budget, are aimed precisely at mitigating these threats. If your question concerned immediate and direct expenditure on military protection, I can say that the decisions that the government has taken in the first half and in the beginning of this year have given confidence both for this year and for the following years that we will really do everything, do the maximum and do everything necessary to ensure that our own military defence is stronger and on better grounds. This is in addition to what needs to be done and what we do with our allies, because Estonia's defence is part of collective defence. This contribution is still complementary. Defence costs will reach 2.9% in Estonia in the coming years. Never before have defence costs been like this, but never before have we been in a security crisis as serious as we are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U4	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U5	Minister of Finance! I too am very sad about the fact that we cannot vote here through the amendments proposed by the opposition. This shows, however, that it did not exist from the beginning. That's a shame. But my immediate concern is the funding of higher education institutions. We know that administrative contracts are still unsigned with the Rectors. We know that this problem is really going on, and you and the Ministry of Education have pushed this problem into the autumn. But, at the same time, we know that although your extra budget really is primarily aimed at resolving the military situation, we also have domestic issues that need immediate response.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U6	Thank you. We have homework. The need to finance higher education is certainly one of the things in which I very much share your view that it needs a solution. The fact that, in the intervening times, higher education was part of a very poor child is a shortcoming, the coverage of which, so to speak, has to be re-established or where raising the level requires important and large decisions. In autumn or late summer, when the new economic forecast is ready and we have the opportunity to assess the situation where we are, the opportunities we have as a country, then certainly higher education is one of the important issues that needs to be resolved. I don't think there's any difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U7	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U8	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, you read everything that would have happened if the bad EKRE hadn't been accepted after the extra budget, and so on. Well, I'm saying it would have happened if we actually discussed how to make additional funding for the Defence League so that those people who have recently become members can be equipped and trained. We would discuss how to actually reduce excise duties and VAT on energy sources in order to help our people and businesses. We would also discuss why this was not found for the 75000 nuclear power working group in order to find out in advance possible ways of introducing nuclear energy in Estonia. The question is: why didn't you find the 75,000 proposed by the Minister for the Environment to do this work and to identify the possibility of introducing nuclear energy in Estonia at an early pace?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U9	Thank you. Now something's gotten mixed up. The additional budget includes additional money in order to bring the planned report six months faster so that we can make decisions next year, decisions on whether, in what form, the investments necessary for the introduction of nuclear energy are made in Estonia. So that's what the extra budget is for. Similarly, with regard to the Defence League, this year, 2022, 45.6 million have been planned for the Defence League, to which indeed the investments for the defence units prepared by the Defence Union will be added. These are €18.6 million booked this year, 2022. In the same way, the Defence League's contribution to the defence of the land increases to 20,000 defenders, so the Defence League will in any case play an important role. This year, this additional funding will be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U10	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You and the Prime Minister both love to stress that this is a wartime budget. Although there is no war directly in Estonia, there is indeed a great war in our immediate neighbourhood. If the security situation is as anxious as it is in our region at the moment, it would assume that if the budget were to be drawn up, in this case an additional budget, the government would convene all the political groups of the Riigikogu and all the political parties-groups together would draw up its additional budget. Today, the government is about to make a tank, run over the opposition. None, not one, not even the smallest opposition proposal, have been supported. Do you think it is right that the opposition is not taken into account in such a serious security situation? Is this our new political practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U12	Thank you. I consider it important for this additional draft budget to be as fast and smooth as possible, for the reason that if the adoption of this draft and the additional budget were to be blocked, just as it would obviously have stayed from one of the members of the group because of the 200 proposals, indeed in a situation where we have a crisis, a crisis as serious as we have never had in the past, we would have to decide and do important things in terms of energy security, both directly in the protection of the population and in the case of cyber threats. It would simply be dangerous for Estonia. Therefore, I do indeed believe that it is important for this additional budget to bear in mind the seriousness of the situation we are in and to deal with this draft quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U13	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U14	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still confused. You're cutting points and absolutely not listening to what we're trying to ask you. When we ask what to do with the problems that, as a result of the war, are scrolling and growing nationally, you say in response that we will be looking at the RES for four years in the autumn. Look at the fuel prices now. Those families who live in the country and have to take their children into the circles of interest, from which you cut down 4 million anyway and do not want to put it back, or those who work as a coach and receive 1000 euros of pay, must rethink where they actually get their income. They can no longer work as a coach; they can't do what they want to do and offer Ukrainian families the opportunity to go there for exercise, because their incomes do not allow it. You're saying we're going to discuss what we're going to do in the fall over the next four years. When will you actually start addressing these problems, which will also lead to war at national level, in order for us to be as strong as possible as a society? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What the EKRE is doing is, of course, bullshit. But you're ignoring all sorts of reasonable suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U15	Thank you. This additional budget also provides a significant relief for those who find it very difficult to cope with the current circumstances. This is about raising the subsistence limit by 33%. To be honest, I am pleased that a number of parliamentary parties, including the Social Democratic Party, have supported this proposal. So, in any case, the additional budget will also pay attention to the national concerns that you have referred to, not all but the most important ones, and those groups that would otherwise find themselves in the most difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U16	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U17	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I note that I am very puzzled that when you answered Jaak Juske's question, you said that even during the war, it is not possible to consult the political groups of the Riigikogu or set up a cooperation platform that it is more important to adopt an additional budget quickly. Democracy has never been the fastest and most effective way to come to a solution, but it is the best way to do it. In this house we waited almost two months for an extra budget, the government had time to discuss it, in these two months we were prepared to make a flexible contribution, but this opportunity was never given. I'll continue on school food. Not the whole additional budget with a security focus or with the focus of current crises. With a special-marked diesel reduction, a VAT exemption and an additional EUR 50 grant, which is not particularly helpful, schoolchildren could be offered restaurant lunches. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In fact, both inequality reduction, health aspects, regional policy balance...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U18	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U19	... if, given the farmers' livelihood, it would be a very sensible way, but it hasn't even been on the table. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U20	Thank you. First of all, this plea concerning discussion with the opposition and its involvement. I myself have also visited several committees with additional budgets. I have been to the Committee on State Budget Control, led by a member of the Parliament of the opposition, where there was a very long and thorough debate involving many ministers. This is one example. Another example is certainly the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of which you are also a member, where there was equally a completely substantive debate on the additional draft budget. I think that's the way it should be. In Parliament, the committees are the places where substantive discussions are held. I must say that I was not invited, for example, to introduce the additional budget of your group. If I had been invited, I'd be happy to come. But in the committees they called me, I went. I am certainly of the opinion that these discussions must be held. Of course, we also need to clarify and share this information as much as possible, perhaps especially in situations where tensions are up and there is a crisis. The solutions to the type of concerns that are really long-term and which require us to assess them when we have a clearer picture and knowledge of the situation of the economic outlook as a whole have been excluded from this additional budget. Once again: when we really put together an additional budget, we focused directly on the most critical, security concerns. It was a decision and a choice we had to make this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U21	Riina Sikkut has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U22	Thank you. In the interests of the verbatim report, I would point out that the Social Democrats really were not interested in introducing an additional budget. We got that information on the committees. We are interested in involving in order to set the priorities for an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U23	That's not a procedural question, Riina. That's why there's a talk round here. After that, if there are negotiations, you can come and clarify it. The procedure is still linked to the procedure for conducting the sitting. [[A voice from the hall.]] That's right. I've always put it there, so we keep pointing out, trying to remember what procedural questions are. The procedure is not for negotiation. Okay. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U24	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This is where we told them we didn't have any money to build shelters. But they're hiding places. Now can you tell me exactly how much money we're gonna make? I am surprised that the government has not listened to an amendment during this interim procedure, because the amendments as such do not pass through the voice of the hall, which says that we could also build some shelters. But how much was it to build shelters?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U25	Thank you for your question. I am mentioning here the sums of public protection costs in a broader and more precise way. First of all, there are 1 million people to strengthen the people's readiness for crisis. There are 5.5 million threats to notification, which concerns the installation of threat reporting systems in 16 major cities. In order to strengthen the rescue capacity, which is above all an increase in the collapse rescue capacity, there are 8.8 million. There are 4.1 million more to strengthen the massive evac capability and 0.4 million more to cover this year. This means that the construction requirements for shelters will be reviewed. This concerns the four major cities, as we talked about during the first reading, where places of refuge are celebrated and opened, and not only are they celebrated, but it really ensures that people know where they are and how to reach them, if such a need would like to spit three times over their shoulders.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U26	Mr. Juske, what's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U27	Thank you. Mr President, could you assure your party partner, the Minister for Finance, that if the Government Union had a desire, a political will in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, nothing would have prohibited or prevented the Government Union from supporting the opposition's amendments to the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U28	If the budget or any other draft is linked to a matter of trust, the rights of the Commission will be transferred to the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Republic, taking over the rights of the Commission, it will be possible to decide which amendments will be supported, which amendments will not. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U29	I would first of all like to thank you for this clarification, which clearly said that the Government of the Republic considered it better not even to discuss, let alone support, opposition amendments, whether they were substantive or simply in the interests of obstruction. In this context, it is extremely cynical to talk about useful idiots, which some politicians sometimes turn out to be in their naivety, because some of the opposition's amendments were very substantive. But my question is this whole procedural logic. I have recently heard in the Riigikogu for months how procedural questions come from the right wing, most of which do not belong in any way to the category that the Riigikogu calls procedural questions. You have tolerated them, all the leaders of the Riigikogu, for hours. Now there was a procedural question from the left wing, and you thought it was necessary to make a comment. As a social democrat, I expect people to be treated equally here in the Riigikogu Hall, as elsewhere in Estonia. Can you explain to me how Riina Sikkut's question was less procedural than what we've heard from that right wing for weeks and months?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U30	Thanks a lot, Indrek! If you take the Riigikogu verbatim, you will see that the executives of the [session] Riigikogu, including I, have repeatedly pointed out that these are not procedural issues, in very repeated cases. This, of course, does not prevent members of the Riigikogu from putting their fingers up and asking a question, as you are doing now, to take this opportunity to express your opinion. I very much hope, I have said this many times before, I will say now, I will continue to say, no matter what time it is: procedural questions are about the procedure for holding a sitting, about who can vote, how many speeches there are, how many speeches there are, how many questions there are. There are procedural questions of this type according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I really hope we're all based on that. However, as we know, the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu does not have the ability to see the members of the Riigikogu to the head. Even now, I cannot say whether Indrek Saar wishes to ask a procedural question or whether he has any other idea, but since [the question] is registered, you have the right to do so. I hope that we can still move forward with questions. Indrek, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U31	Thank you. I think that very many of us, as well as a large part of those people, politicians, who observe politics closely and see what has been happening in this Chamber of Riigikogu all the time recently under the name of procedural questions, would still expect the Riigikogu Board to try to find any solution so that the Riigikogu does not spend much of its working time asking procedural questions that are not relevant in this context. I still have a request. I very much hope that we will return to the practices that we had before the EKRE moved to the opposition after it went to the government. Today, of course, it has long since crossed the borders of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U32	One of the things the Board of the Riigikogu has done is that we also register procedural questions, speeches and speeches separately for statistics. So if any of the members of the Riigikogu have any interest in knowing how many procedural questions one or another member of the Riigikogu has asked, then we have this possibility completely in the information technology. But with that, I agree very much that it is not reasonable to have a fair that we sometimes have here under procedural questions. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U33	Thank you, good vice chairman. Does it also seem to you that our good companions on this right side want to have some sort of special status and special approach in this Chamber? Do you think it makes sense what was being applied for here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U34	First of all, we need to make it clear that you're both talking about the right wing. The manager of the view... Indrek also mentioned the right wing. In this sense, the head of the view on the right is... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah. (The hall is spoken louder.) All right, ladies and gentlemen, quiet down, please. Mr. Chef! It wasn't a procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U35	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have a procedural question. Looking at the fact that once our hall is full of ambassadors, masking has become modern again. We know that once again there is a risk of corona. From that time on, it is always said that every hour and a half it is wise to encourage space. Right now, I'm worried about your hangar on your left hand. The window is open and there may be a draft, so even Diclac won't help. Wouldn't it be reasonable for us, as the Health Board has foreseen, or what the profession was, and all Aunt Irjad and Urjad, who said that every hour and a half we do ten minutes of incitement, and that's it? I don't think it's good for a messenger. Or is there some kind of procedural thing about when we can close the window and when not to close it? Everyone should be equally protected from cold, cool and damp May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U36	It wasn't a procedural question, first. Secondly, the President of the sitting has constant contact with the staff who assist us. So if we have to, we can close that window, if we have to, we'll open the window. Don't worry, everyone's got their mouths on, they can tell you when it gets cold. Okay. Let's get on with the questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U37	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Prime Minister has emphasised that this extra budget is a wartime budget, and you have also stressed that it is a wartime budget. I'll ask. How much is foreseen in this budget for direct defence expenditure if the budget is more than EUR 800 million and how many per cent of the total additional budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U38	Thank you. This additional budget is divided relatively equally between three key areas or divided into three pillars, I would say that. In essence, one of the most important is the strengthening of energy security. There are 257.3 million to strengthen energy security. In order to strengthen wide-ranging security and resilience, all of which are directly linked to defence, there are 247,6 million. The primary costs for refugees are EUR 242,7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U39	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U40	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! Before I asked you about the financing of the Nuclear Power Task Force, you said I was confusing something. No, I haven't confused anything. True, 250,000 are included in the supplementary budget. But on the website of the Ministry of the Environment, you can see that 75,000 are still missing to hire the people you need to do these analyses and things in advance. Didn't the Minister of the Environment ask for that money and just writes that 75,000 are missing, or didn't you find that money to add 75,000 more, hire these people and analyze them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U41	Thank you. The specific nature of the additional budget is that we can add to the expenditure that will actually be needed this year. In order to be able to analyse something from the surface, this analysis must first be completed. Bringing this analysis forward, bringing the report forward, is what the current supplementary budget contains. In this, you are absolutely right that, of course, after the preliminary report has been completed, additional costs will be needed in order to speed up the delivery of this report, but this will concern the next year. This year, it is true that the Nuclear Energy Working Party will present to the government an interim report on its activities concerning energy security, Estonia's energy needs, also the developments in the energy economy in our neighbouring countries in the nuclear energy perspective, analysing the technologies under development, opportunities for cooperation between the state and the private sector, public obligations, one of the most likely most sensitive issues, i.e. waste management, as well as the current state of sectoral legislation and existing labour force. This first draft interim report will be sent to the working group members in the near future and in the autumn we hope to see this report in the government. The comprehensive report, or the final report, on the basis of which the state can decide, in principle, on the introduction of nuclear energy, must be completed by the end of next year. Initially, this schedule was a little longer, but right now, the circumstances are that we cannot use any more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U42	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As we learned from the honourable President's answer to my procedural question, the government simply lacked political will to support opposition proposals and that is it. At the same time, this crisis situation, the war situation, would require the political groups to work together so that the government, in the initial phase of drawing up the budget, really involved all the political groups and tried to take these proposals into account. It's just that there's no will. But I ask you something else, which is very important at the same time. As we know, the representatives of both the opposition and the government union from the four political groups have today initiated a draft increase in children's benefits. A very necessary bill at a difficult time when our families are impoverished by price increases. Do you agree with the Prime Minister, as one of the leading politicians of the Reform Party, that if Parliament approves the draft increase in child benefits, the government should resign? Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U44	Thank you. Has there been a political will to involve and talk to the opposition and to all parliamentary groups when making an additional budget? Once again, your group did not invite me to have a conversation as Minister of Finance on this issue when it put together an additional budget. I must say that not in the case of this additional budget, but in the case of the previous budget, for example, the Isamaa Group made such an invitation, and I went to the previous budget before it was approved by the government to introduce it to the Fatherland and to hold this debate. If there is a complaint or a concern as to why this time it was not done to the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for example, I will say that if you had called, I would certainly have been happy to come. I consider this debate to be important. As regards the draft, which will impose an obligation of more than EUR 300 million on taxpayers in the coming years, it is a draft which, I think, will make sense to carry out a calm analysis. Without this analysis being carried out, I find it somewhat strange that it would be possible to proceed in this form without any meaningful analysis and to impose such an obligation on taxpayers. So I'm thinking that we need further analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U45	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U46	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We are talking about energy security and how much of it is food security and how much it is water security. We have to think that people need energy, too. How much have we considered that water security also has the ability to filter water and all that? Well, if anything happens, there's a giant flying to Ülemiste, then the whole of Tallinn is on its side. After all, there is one third of the Estonian people who should be evacuated. The second question is this. I listened to this debate with Jaak Juske. What does this Prime Minister have against supporting these children or against the children? It's as important as the extra budget now being put into some kind of child support... As long as we support the children, we know that at least half the size so that everyone can save the face. But what does he personally have against children's benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U47	Thank you. There are no additional decisions relating to the Ülemiste lake in this supplementary budget. The first question was about this. The second question got me a little confused. This additional budget is directly linked to security-related needs. This is the way he was originally presented, and this is the focus we have wanted to keep. I think it's reasonable that it's gonna be that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U48	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U49	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The majority of Ukrainian refugees can qualify in Estonia as single mothers with children, whose men or partners, if any, are in Ukraine or have died, or [the refugees] are single mothers who have come here with children. In Estonia, the percentage of single mothers with children is the highest in the European Union, probably twice as high as the average in Europe. One survey of single mothers in Estonia reveals that only a certain proportion of single parent children who grow in a single parent's family receive support from a single parent. My question is: will the single mothers of Ukraine, who are really single mothers here in Estonia, receive all these possible benefits? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U50	Thank you. If temporary protection extends to them, they have applied for temporary protection, they will be subject to the same rights as Estonian residents. This means that if they qualify and meet the conditions laid down for the payment of one or the other, they will receive this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U51	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U52	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you answer questions on one point, you said that you are very pleased that the limit of living is rising and that there are many parties who have requested it in advance. Yes, the Social Democrats have been doing this for a very long time, and I am also glad that it is finally rising. But, in fact, it should have risen from the beginning of the new year, which is the beginning of this year, when it was known that there was an energy crisis, and you very quickly took a measure concerning people's conversion to local self-government to apply for energy support. I just have a question. In the discussions on the support for a single-living pensioner, which now rises from EUR 115 to EUR 200, which is also a very important and correct thing, did you also talk about the beneficiaries of a self-employed disability benefit or a 100% permanent disability pension who live alone? They are not of retirement age, but their pension is often considerably lower and they are in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U53	Thank you. That's a good point. I'll take it with me. I would like to take this opportunity, among other things, to clarify the issue of the amount of national pension that is included in this bill, which is still in the air at the time of the first reading. It said that the national pension paid to war refugees in Ukraine was EUR 180 per month, although we do have a national pension of EUR 275 per month. To this end, the additional budget provides for money. The difference is simply due to the fact that the average difference between Ukrainian pension and Estonian national pension is paid to Ukrainian war refugees, which is estimated at 180 euros. But your first question, as I said, I'll take it with me. With Signe Riisalo, I'm sure we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U54	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm still asking about defense costs. You didn't answer Helir-Valdor Seeder about it, you were just talking about the parts of the budget. But indeed, out of this 800 million, 15 million are directly targeted at national defence, which is less than 2%. It is a clear exaggeration to call it a wartime budget. I'll ask. You also have a state secret permit, and I believe that the Minister of Defence also has a state secret permit. Yesterday we were introduced to the Act of the National Audit Office and we have talked about the needs of the National Defence Committee. This 15 million is clearly inadequate and is quite understandable in terms of the ability to make more use of [the money]. I understand I can't talk everything out here right now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Was that $15 million money from the Ministry of Finance, or did the Secretary of Defense come and tell you that's enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U56	Thank you. I do not really consider what you have just done to be very reasonable: you are referring to a state secret and then you are asking a question that seems to have something to do with it and which also contains certain reproaches. In this sense, it may not be entirely correct. But when we talk about a strengthening package for defence and military defence, this strengthening package consisted of two parts. The first was approved at the beginning of the year, before Russia started its full-scale attack on Ukraine, the second part a little later. The reinforcement package was put together on the basis of military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces and the armaments acquired on this basis must bring about the rapid growth of Estonian military capabilities. As I said at first reading, all the decisions contained in this very first package of reinforcements have now reached the agreement. Everything that can be delivered and that arrives this year is also included in the current state budget. The rules for drawing up the budget are that we can add to the additional budget what actually arrives this year. The fact that we made this decision and the first part of the strengthening package in January means that we are actually in an advantage over a great many other countries, because we made our decisions earlier and we really get this real increase in military power earlier. What does that mean? Just a few examples. We're gonna buy short-range anti-aircraft launchers, missiles, including Stingers. In order to strengthen anti-tank control, we'll get Javeline and EuroSpike. Let's also make a proper supply of supplies. Together with the Baltic States, we'll get a MLRS or a multiple rocket launcher system. It is not less important that the infrastructure related to the adoption of the allies will also be improved. In this extra budget, too, there are improvements to the infrastructure associated with the adoption of allies. They are necessary for us to have the capacity to accept units of divisional allies in Estonia. So these are the decisions that have been made. This is all the more, once again, about strengthening collective protection, for which work is extremely serious every day. Estonia is part of collective defence and is one of the most important parts of our security. So the extra budget is everything that actually arrives this year. But indeed, I thought it was important to say that all the agreements that came from the first defence consolidation package have already been concluded by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U57	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U58	Thank you. Dear Minister, As you know, underfinancing higher education is my constant heartache. This additional budget is a crisis budget, we have a number of crises now: war in Ukraine, pandemic, ecological crisis, etc. These crises are not all ours, but the crisis in higher education is purely ours, and it could have been foreseen. In my opinion, the protest of the Rectors is very painful and justified in every way. I see no reason why there should be no measures in this crisis budget to at least cushion this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U59	Thank you. I understand that concern. The additional budget focuses on mitigating the immediate effects of the war in Ukraine and keeps the focus on it. That's the focus of this extra budget. Indeed, this additional budget does not solve all the problems and concerns that exist in Estonia. We can come to these longer-term concerns and we must come back when we start putting together the budget for next year and the budgetary strategy for the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U60	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U61	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. My last question goes on. We were talking about not all receiving this support from a single parent child. It says here that a child whose birth record does not include a father or is based on a mother's statement, as well as a child whose parent has been declared wanted, is entitled to the benefit of a single parent child. You said that those so-called basically single mothers who have come from Ukraine in large numbers and who have received temporary protection will all receive this support from a single parent child. How does that work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U62	Thank you, good questioner! I didn't say that. I said exactly that if they meet the criteria and the conditions laid down for the grant, they will have the same right to support as the rest of Estonia. If they do not meet the conditions set, they will not receive this support. This takes place on the same basis as other Estonian residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U63	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is very difficult to read this budget. Maybe you can explain it to me now or explain it to me. 227 million are here to solve energy problems. It is very clear that 200 million should not be on this line. It would have been a natural debate, I think it would certainly have been something else to do with this money. For 30 million, start competing with private operators to go to Finland to make a terminal, if there are private entrepreneurs in Estonia, this is a crime. The second is that for 170 million dollars, you can write here for gas, which is not possible without Estonia having the terminal's reception capacity, it cannot be used either. Third, Elering announced today that he wouldn't build that pipe by autumn. What's with the money in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U65	Thank you. I don't have that knowledge. I have the knowledge from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that this capacity will develop in Estonia by autumn. This capacity is undoubtedly very important for energy security. As far as I know, there is still a phase in which everyone involved is acting in the best faith and in order to have an alternative capacity by autumn. This is an extremely fast action compared to the usual pace. But we don't have another option right now. So I certainly do not agree that there should be no investment in this extra budget in the energy security block necessary to create LNG capacity in Estonia. I think it is necessary that it is in here, and it is necessary that this capacity be created in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U66	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U67	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would certainly like to thank you very much for the fact that if some of the questions remain up, the answers to them have come very quickly. With regard to the same national pension of EUR 180, the Minister for Social Protection sent a letter the following day and stated that the explanatory memorandum was pointing out that the explanation should not have been about the national pension, but should have been the explanation you brought from this remote control. For me, internal security and external security are the ones that both affect. This budget, as you said, is certainly on the three pillars in terms of both external security and internal security. This is about children's school food. It would have been for the children of refugees who go to school and for our children who go to school. For children of very many families, school food is indeed the only warm food a day. Raising this threshold would certainly have provided an opportunity to improve any security. Why, though, did it not seem to be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U68	Thank you. As I explained in response to a similar question from one of the previous questioners, the focus of this additional budget was indeed to mitigate and levelen the threats and needs of immediate security. It's got a focus on it. The issues that are long-term and which have not come about directly now, because of this security situation and the crisis, are certainly necessary, but we can come to these discussions when we put together the budget for next year and the budgetary plans for the coming years in the light of the new economic forecast in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U69	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your speech, too, you have said many times today that we should think about how to create additional opportunities to suppress energy prices by changing production. Even if this LNG terminal is finished and liquefied natural gas should come here, it is clearly more expensive than our local resource wood pellets. The Fatherland proposed that, for 10 million, we could support the conversion of boiler houses for local fuel use. Unfortunately, it was rejected. What were the arguments why we prefer this uncertain gas to local fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U71	Thank you. We don't. We have started the EUR 22.5 million foreseen for the European budget period to support the change of fuel type in the boilerhouses you mentioned. So that's what the euro is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U72	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U73	Thank you. I don't know when this euro will be delivered. The Prime Minister did say last year that summer wouldn't come, I realized today he said that winter wouldn't come. But, for example, the 30 million, which you say is that it is absolutely necessary for this money to be in it, [means] the creation of a competing company and terminal in Finland. Is this the case that private entrepreneurs in Estonia, on the capital of Estonia, make receptions with their own money and then Finland is made a competitive [place] for taxpayers' money? The second is that 170 million dollars today gets 2 sharps, not 1 sharps, from anywhere in LNG gas. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the number that was written here was written on Russian gas, but the decision has been made that Russian gas is not recommended. In my opinion, this could be very clearly in place. It would be very interesting, I would also support that if there was money in this budget, how we could transfer heating systems during the summer. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That'd be great.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U74	Thank you. The private operator and Elering still have to work towards one goal in resolving this issue. Can't be any other way, can't be. 170 million euros are in an additional budget to generate gas supplies for Estonia, which is, as I explained at first reading, up to 170 million and this limit is linked to the acquisition of 1 terawatt-hour of gas supplies. If, at this point, it is possible to obtain it at a price that represents significantly less than EUR 170 million, and I believe that this could be the case, it means that EUR 170 million will not be spent. The extent to which the share capital of the Estonian Stock Centre is expanded depends directly on the price at which the 1 terawatt-hour, which is about 20% of the annual gas consumption in Estonia, is procured. So the goal is not, in any case, to spend 170 million, but it is still linked to volume. As I said, we will be able to use EUR 22.5 million for the exchange of heating types or the transfer of [other] heating types. I really hope that this money will open up as soon as possible. As we know from the previous period, there was a great deal of interest in this. I believe that, especially in the current circumstances, there is a willingness to come quickly and to make rapid use of the money as well. I hope this opening will happen quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U75	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you for the beautiful and happy gestures with which my coming to the hall made you happy. Thank you. But now to the point and a question to the Minister. I'm trying to figure out how this debate took place in your government. At the beginning of the year, when the necessary 380 million were decided to invest in the acquisition of weapons and ammunition, this could be done by a decision of the government. In the context of this additional budget, a number of other important things have been achieved that special fuel needs to reduce excise duty and, for example, to reduce VAT on media publications. How did such choices arise, and what else was discussed that was delayed or missed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U77	Thank you. In January, when the first security strengthening package in the government was approved, the main focus was absolutely and only on the rapid strengthening of military protection. As has been said, on the basis of military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces, this package was assembled and assembled. Perhaps it is important here for all Members of Parliament to say that defence expenditure is often the case that these procurements are long-term, that expenditure for each specific year can and must be approved by Parliament. So, in any case, it will come to Parliament for a decision. But indeed, the focus was then on strengthening purely military protection, and with special attention it was that this strengthening should take place as soon as possible. As explained above, the fact that we were able to make a decision already in January actually guarantees this for us on a number of occasions. Several other countries are likely to have significantly longer procurement queues. In addition, it was also possible to obtain this decision in January at a price that is now a long-standing past.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U78	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U79	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific in budgetary terms. With regard to the decision taken at the beginning of January, you said that, in the end, this particular cost, which is this year, must pass through Parliament. The decisions made in January, we know, with a total volume of 380 million, are far from all spending this year, but rather a much smaller part of what is logical, and for the reason you have just explained. But this amount is not yet fully clear. I understand that this supplementary budget does not reflect this. Will this be reflected at the end of the year when we specify the budget? Or when or in what way is he reflected in our budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U80	Thank you. It is first reflected in the budgetary strategy, which, as is always the case for the longer term, is reflected in the draft budget for this particular year each year. That is, in 2023, in the draft budget for 2023, which will be submitted to Parliament by the end of September, and then in the draft for that year. The total budget for this year's defence expenditure amounts to 749.6 million, which includes actual defence expenditure this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U81	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U82	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You have repeatedly argued that the additional budget focuses on the most important things. This could be a question, but at the same time, the government is completely neglected, also within this additional budget, unprecedented inflation in Europe, the biggest inflation in Europe, rising prices, coping with our people and massive impoverishment as a result of this price increase. It's not being dealt with. Isn't that important at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U83	Thank you. It does matter. In order to support people's coping in difficult circumstances, the limit of living will rise by 33% with an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U84	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U86	Yeah. I'm opening negotiations. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U87	More time, 2.83 if you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U88	2.83 can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U89	That's three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U90	It'll take three minutes, maybe eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Finance! As the party chairman, Martin Helme, is currently not present in Estonia, the group has authorised me to give a group speech. The Government of the Republic has defined this budget as a wartime budget. It's not correct. We would have a wartime if the state declared a martial law that would probably occur due to the attack on Estonia by Russia. Luckily, that hasn't happened, and God will keep it hopefully never happens. What does a wartime budget look like? To this end, we should go to Kiev, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, and see what it is like there. They have an average monthly deficit of EUR 5 billion or dollars, and the Western world all together helps to cover these costs. God's gonna make sure we don't get there. But what kind of budget is this? This is, of course, a budget in a compound crisis that is very decisively affected by Russia's widespread attack on Ukraine. I agree with Mr Reinsalu's assessment that the biggest problem in this budget is not what is in it, but what is missing here. That is what I will also mention, but for the time being, I will analyse the expenditure on this budget by the areas mentioned here. If the notional definition was a wartime budget, of course, I would like to see a separate cost item here, 'War defence costs', but there is no specific item here, because these costs are too low, i.e. EUR 15.45 million, which is less than 2% of the total budget. Therefore, they are not defined at all, but are covered by a broad range of national defence. For extensive defence, we see a nominally very large amount of 247,6 million. But let's start analyzing what's under there. Here, of course, there are the same military budget costs that can still be understood, but here, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs has additional pension costs of 40,2 million. A good and right item of expenditure in itself, but what does it have to do with broad-based national defence? After all, then, all the pensions could be transferred there through the ages, and we would have the world's greatest cost of broad-based national defence. There are also 28.6 million of the Government's expenses for income support, and there are also 37.7 million of the expenses of the Ministry of the Interior, which go to refugees. It's also a separate major area here, but it's not in the right place. There is also a reserve of 68.4 million for the entire Government of the Republic, which leads to 100 million for the reserve. The reserve may, in my opinion, be 200 million, but it should be clearly defined as a separate item of expenditure. Unfortunately, if we do this separation, we will have only 72.7 million of the wide-based defence costs, which is not a small amount, but rather not what is being presented to us. This is absolutely not correct. Here, of course, there should be a separate area of social costs or costs of social cohesion, which would be totally welcome. Then we would see that a number of things that are placed under other articles would be in the right place, and we would understand what is really inside this budget. Maybe reality doesn't correspond to what it says. The cost of war refugees is reported here at 242 million. These costs must be borne because we have war refugees here, but this item of expenditure is not quite true, because this is where the 37.7 million, which are at the expense of the Ministry of the Interior for the costs of refugees on a broad line of national defence, is added to the cost of the Government of the Republic of Estonia for subsistence allowances for refugees, which is also the necessary cost. The actual expenditure on refugees will rise to 302 million, the largest item in this budget. As far as energy security is concerned, these costs may or may not correspond most to content, but there are also 30 million costs for pensioners, children and families with children, which are actually social costs. For energy security in itself, these costs do not in any way [improve]. Perhaps the content and form are not correctly correlated here. If you read it carefully, it is clear that it does not tell the truth about what is in this budget. Now I will continue to develop this subject, which my colleague Urmas Reinsalu highlighted, which is not here. The corona crisis is not over. It's going on. The only effective means of combating this is to increase hospital capacity. It's not here. We hope that this crisis will not come back, but it may not. The energy crisis began much earlier than Russia's widespread attack on Ukraine. There are different solutions to solve the energy crisis. Our group has proposed relatively radical solutions, both from the CO2 system and from the stock exchange system. Yes, they are obviously not acceptable to the government, but solutions are needed, then other solutions, because undoubtedly the biggest input of this high inflation of 18% comes from the rise in energy prices. Where are we going by autumn? We are likely to reach a new additional budget, as the costs of refugees will probably be even higher, energy prices will rise even more and food prices will rise and people will find it even harder to cope. Things have been done here, but little, and therefore our group will not be able to support this budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U92	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U93	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U94	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U95	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that such a budget has not existed before since I was in the Riigikogu. If you look in here, you can see a bluff on virtually every row. This bluff is like, if you ask the ministers, they're talking about really big numbers. Just as we are talking about defence costs: 380 million in January, half a billion in March and now 15 million in January. Well, there couldn't be a number like that. If this year's state budget has a size of 750 million, half of it is a number that can be said to be something agreed by the Minister in the government or that there are contracts somewhere. The rest is either there's been a breach of the state budget law or there's just a bluff. The Minister of the Interior will come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and tell us about the big numbers, but if you look at the budget, these numbers are ten times smaller. It's nice to say nice things. We're talking about LNG, the government ministers and the Prime Minister don't even know that the situation is critical. I don't know that Elering doesn't follow the government's decisions, but ignores them and clearly says he's doing everything he can to make sure there's no gas in the fall. But if such a decision is made, there is no need to keep EUR 200 million here. What is the logic of the state's agreement that two private companies will create reception facilities for LNG ships and then give Elering 30 million to set up a similar system in Finland in a few years' time? Public money, or taxpayers' money, is made a competitive system. To this day, there is not yet a contract for Elering to make this pipe between the Balticconnector and the reception dock. Then they say we need to get gas from somewhere. Let's be honest. With the exception of Russian gas, this is not even theoretically possible. Yeah, Finns would sell us gas very well, and I have a feeling that's the trick right now. Network operators would be able to charge the congestion charge again, because Finland is buying gas today at 35 euros, but we are being sold at 100. This difference does not go to gas sellers, but to transmission system operators. There may be a catch why everything is done so that they don't make their reception terminal. 200 million, one-quarter! 25% of the budget is empty air, which the Prime Minister said we would know where else to put it. Just as decisions have been made for the last four months and millions have been constantly shared, which are not seen anywhere in the additional budget, but, very right, in the government reserve, just a sufficiently large amount of money passed from 2021. In the budget we adopted, we didn't see it, but just the unused money was pretty big, which, during the previous government, went into reserve. When the additional budget was made, we should have thought about the people of Estonia and the economy. The Fatherland Party has made a number of important proposals which, unfortunately, could not be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at a very rapid time. But, of course, it is reassuring that these drafts have passed first reading in this Chamber, and I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be able to deal with both excise duties and VAT before going on summer leave. Today, we know one hundred percent that electricity and gas are as expensive as they are today, and the warm economy can become much more expensive. That's what we're afraid of. One option is to opt out of such VAT, from 20% to 9%. Another option is to give up the network fee because Elering will take over 100 million at the congestion charge anyway. This money could still be given back to people, because it's not people's fault, it's Elering's decisions. I must emphasise this every time, so that the press can understand clearly why the price of electricity is like this. That's the price of one cable. There's no need to talk about a war situation. There was no state of war when we already had prices charged in November. Activists. What is great is that in seven months' time, we will raise the excise duty of farmers, fishermen and mines five times higher. That's great. I hope that in the autumn, in the budget for next year, as the election year is coming, this five-fold increase will most likely not be achieved. But farmers have mostly already stocked their fuel for spring, summer and autumn work. Of course, it has done the right thing, because the price has certainly increased more in the last two or three months than the 8, 9 or 10 cents that are saved by this excise duty. Higher education. Twenty million people are asking for universities. A historical year. The state and universities have not been able to enter into agreements with each other. 20 million. We can show you anywhere in the Ministry's line where that 20 million in air is. Clearly, the additional budget has been drawn up with a view to next year's elections. There is a place everywhere where so - called roofing money can be provided. The members of the Riigikogu share 3 million, and in the case of each member of the Riigikogu, it was examined where he divided it by 30000. Here is 800 million, 15 million of which are actually defence costs. The only thing I have to say is to praise the rise in income support. It's really time and time gone by. However, unfortunately, I must admit that this budget cannot be supported for a simple reason: there is so much air left here to allow the government to make its own decisions again, to redefine the budget, then at some point they will come to the Riigikogu and inform us that these lines have been redeployed, taken or left. The coalition that is at that moment will still support it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U96	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I shall immediately say that the additional budget should, of course, have been more ambitious and ambitious, but better than nothing. In a context of sudden price increases, the main task of the state is to ensure that people survive and mitigate the effects of the crisis on the economy. The additional budget provides for an increase of the subsistence limit to EUR 200 and is urgent. Inflation has already eaten a large part of the already small income support. In addition, the supplementary budget plans to support every pensioner and child with EUR 50. This is not a very ambitious plan, of course, but it is necessary. Coping is highly dependent on the cost of energy carriers. There have been very rapid developments over the last three months. Estonia and Finland have already concluded a gas supply insurance agreement which requires neighbouring countries to assist each other in the event of disruption of natural gas supply. From the additional budget we allocate 170 million gas stocks and 13 million liquid fuel stocks. The additional budget also reflects the long view of energy policy. A quarter of EUR 1 million has been earmarked for the Nuclear Energy Task Force and the establishment of a nuclear power plant is now on the agenda more seriously than ever. At our gas stations, the market price for petrol has exceeded the EUR 2 threshold. We had the opportunity to bring it down, but unfortunately this measure is not reflected in the additional budget. But the extra budget will at least provide support for farmers. The excise duty on specially labelled diesel will be reduced to the minimum of the European Union. This step should reduce the price of a litre in a gas station by ten cents. Successful are those countries that, in a crisis situation, are not just thinking about extinguishing a fire, but have a long plan. The Centre Party is looking to the future. At the end of the month, we will vote in this large hall on the draft family allowances, which will make a major contribution to ensuring the livelihood of Estonian people. In crisis situations, as a rule, the omissions of previous years are evident. I am pleased that the additional budget will contribute significant amounts to broad-based defence. We create shelters and threat reporting systems, increase collapse rescue and de-mining capabilities. When we talk about security, we like to emphasise the presence of the NATO allies, but we also need to manage ourselves and stand up for strong independent defence capabilities. It may seem that an additional budget is an excellent opportunity for political games, but the reality is that it is urgent to adopt it. There were undoubtedly substantive proposals in the amendments, but 700 amendments do not seem to me to be honoured by politicians, and in this situation we must support the government's step towards linking the additional budget to a vote of confidence. We must support the government, because its disbanding also means the failure of an additional budget. Political developments may be rapid and dynamic, but for the time being, on behalf of the central group, I very much ask you to support both the additional budget and the continuation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U98	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U99	Good night to all the insomniacs and the unsleeping! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by quoting the Minister of Finance, to whom the Estonian Express, which received the same state's support, has allowed the leaf space to convey its messages. It says it would be incomprehensible to the loan money to cover running expenses, salaries and allowances, and according to the Pentus-Rosimitüüs, voters would punish such lure. Yes, to borrow to support our people, even to support children and families in this extremely difficult time and in the deep crisis where we are driving as a country, it would be to lure the reform party. But borrowing loans for immigrant social, medical, educational and housing benefits is no problem, as the additional budget shows. I really hope that voters, as the Minister of Finance has said in advance, will indeed punish such luring, for hundreds of millions of dollars in debt. This is an additional budget that has made huge financial commitments to Estonia. Much of this money is so-called blind money, the real benefits of which we do not see and will not see, either now or in the future, targeted use. Our party, as well as other opposition parties, has pointed out the fact that the government's task in a difficult situation is not to sow money from a wide arch to deal with strangers, but, above all, it is the responsibility of each government to care for the livelihood of its own people. This is precisely in all the crises that are inevitably ahead of us. But no, the government can't find the money to help their people. The Prime Minister has even promised to resign if the bill supporting Estonian families and children should go through. It's outrageous! The woman and alleged empathetic Prime Minister Kaja Kallas cannot find care for women and children, for supporting families. However, for hundreds of millions of euros, he is taking over all kinds of international and clear commitments to Estonia regarding Ukraine's war and the green turn and has taken on the back of the Estonian taxpayer many times and times more war refugees than the countries that are much bigger and richer than us have done or are planning to do so. I dare say, even here, that all this fame, shoulder patting and personal interviews he has paid off with the same Estonian taxpayer's money. Being in everything and everywhere the first, most eager, most betwinner, he has naturally excelled. But he's practically bought his reputation and fame with all our money. I'll come back to the extra budget. What have we heard here from both the Prime Minister and other members of the government? It's a defense bill, it's a wartime bill. Actually, it's not, it's just a lie. In reality, only 15.66 million out of 803 million of this will go to military defence in order to strengthen concrete and direct defence capabilities. The bulk of the money allocated to internal security goes to the service of Ukrainian war refugees. Only 26.7 million remains for the protection of the population, for the organisation of evacuation and shadowing and for the development of alarm systems. However, the government will park 100 million in its own purse, or government reserve, which they will later be able to spend at will and discretion without reporting to anyone at all. 70 million will be devoted to education, and in the main, it will all go to Ukrainian kindergarten and school places to pay off. At the same time, I asked Minister Kersna, in the Commission's debate on the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law, what is being done specifically with this money, for example, in children's language training. Then he said something about organizing summer camps for the children of Ukraine, perhaps in fact, a large number of millions are being scattered to random non-profits and children's camps organizers just for the summer care of children. Be already open calls for proposals in the form of "Come on, everybody!" and, at all, the children of Estonia and Ukraine were to be together in these camps. I then asked whether Estonian families could really place their children in free camps this summer for the millions provided by their government, because, as we know, everything is free for the Ukrainians. Then Kersna replied that they still had a small participation fee of about EUR 10 or so. I don't know whether to cry or laugh. But the fact is, a lot of money, which is, in addition to everything, loan money, is just randomly distributed. Minister Kersna conducted unsold test deals, which cost more than 8 million and which were bought in violation of a number of laws, but neither the criminal police, the prosecutor's office nor the kapo can hear or see anything, they are collectively blind and deaf. We've heard of that. But sharing millions and millions of children in summer camps with the current additional budget is also quite an exciting financial activity. Certain bodies should already be very attentive and tiptoeful to see if there may be any conflict of interest and the distribution of money to their own. But is that the attention? No, because we have an untouchable party to whom everything is permitted. I'll come back to those tests again. It was amazing to hear the Prime Minister justify the conduct of the Minister of Education. He said we had a crisis, we had to act quickly, we had a war. Yeah, you heard me right. That's exactly what he said. It was wartime. What wartime? Oh, we had a war on the virus, and he personally gave Liina Kersna permission to buy these tests and thereby break the law. Just amazing. As far as war is concerned, as far as I know, even during wartime, there are laws. But we did not have a war, nor do we now, although we still hear exactly the same rhetoric regarding the distribution of large sums of money: now can and so can, because we have a wartime, we have a wartime budget, and do not ask for anything at all and criticize anything, because then you are... It's convenient to barricade yourself behind such rhetoric with a big wallet. Sure. But people aren't blind, people aren't stupid, they're still asking questions and pointing to circumstances, even if some things are almost forbidden to talk about. And when it comes in autumn, when winter comes, when the rectors of universities do not sign administrative contracts because the government refuses to give them extra money if people cannot heat their own living, they cannot pay for heating if inflation eats up their wages, if inflation also eats up the support of the lonely pensioner that the government has promised him to pay if he takes to live in his own home as a sub-tenant of the Ukrainian war refugee, unfortunately the government does not pay the allowance if a single mother of an Estonian citizen is taken as a sub-tenant, for example, but if the food prices rise to heaven when the car fuel goes so expensive that people living in the country become forced land and no longer get out of their home when colds and other illnesses begin to spread, but the health fund's money is run out, and medical care becomes a deficit, when the salary is no longer sufficient for basic livelihoods, hopefully all lovers of the war principle will also understand that they have been deceived. And such a government, along with such a leader, cannot be trusted in any way. All those who trust him should be embarrassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U100	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U101	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U102	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister has presented the proposed extra budget as a wartime budget and the Minister of Finance has confirmed that it is a wartime budget. I, too, have realised during this procedure that it is indeed a wartime budget and that the government has declared war on the opposition. He has decided to cross the opposition, to cross the parliamentary culture and parliamentary debate. At this point, I quote what the current Prime Minister said on 22 January 2020: 'The government, of course, has one way of showing really clearly that those who hold the power are also right. To this end, there is the linking of the draft to the government's vote of confidence. [---] Then no amendments will be voted and the opposition will essentially be deprived of the opportunity of a democratic debate. The coalition ambassadors no longer have to worry about harming Estonia, but are the ambassadors persuaded to vote in favour with a simple question of wanting to be in power? Then vote in favour, otherwise this government will fall. The debate on the substance will simply be rolled over with a roll of power. " End of quote. It has now been said repeatedly here that there is no time and 200 amendments tabled on the additional budget will take that time away, especially in the event of war. This draft was discussed by the government for several months before it was brought to Parliament. We heard reports every week on the front lines that have been renegotiated. A piece of positive news was given that we now agreed on national defence spending, and now we agreed on a minimum level of livelihood. And so a few positive news reports were spilled into the press, into the media, and the press, of course, picked them up. This was done for two months, creating a positive background for this additional budget. Finally, when he got here, well, let's just say he screwed up. Well, actually, there's plenty of time right now. There would be time for parliamentary debate and quality work in this Chamber. 200 amendments. Merge-break, honorable coalition ambassadors! Two hundred amendments also apply throughout the obituary means one night sitting and one additional sitting, nothing more. And that would have been the maximum suffering in a war situation to involve the opposition. However, as has been the case in this Chamber in the past, the obstruction is not an end in itself, I believe, no one, but the purpose of the obstruction is still to reach some sort of agreement and compromise. In the past, this has been achieved in this composition, the obstruction has been negotiated with the opposition, the obstruction has been completed and some kind of agreement has been reached. At this point, I do not want to justify at all the proposals made by the EKRE ambassadors, but I want to say that parliamentary culture must be two-way. The government has not used force on this scale unilaterally before, as far as I know, to link the whole package, i.e. four successive drafts, with confidence[vote]. As we have heard, in the future, he intends to link the government's trust with the [vote] of a number of other drafts, on which too many amendments have been tabled, so that the work of the Riigikogu cannot be conveniently organised. This is, unfortunately, a new quality in our work in a negative way. But now from the proposals put forward by the Fatherland on this bill. Our own amendments, too, because the government decided to tie them to a vote of confidence, to discuss and not to vote. We did not have many, but they were important and substantive. Let's look at the whole budget package. The proposal for an exceptional increase in the basic part of pensions and the introduction of an average pension income tax exemption already from 1 July this year would be much more effective, without red tape and would help pensioners much more. In this case, a one-off bureaucratic allocation of EUR 50 would also fall away for pensioners. This would have been much more reasonable, but unfortunately we cannot even vote on it here. The same applies to the reduction of gas, electricity and domestic hot VAT. This is very important, considering the future heating season. The government did not consider it possible to support this. However, the most important tax distinction in the war situation that the government is doing is lowering the value added tax (VAT) of the press from 9% to 5%. This is now a strategic and important tax distinction. I particularly stress that the Reform Party has spoken about how they support a simple, uniform tax system and are fundamentally opposed to all kinds of tax differences. But this is now extremely important in a war situation. It must be pointed out immediately that cutting the Master's page budget for this year to the tune of EUR 50000 is also a strategic option. Obviously, this is not the most loyal publication for the government. There has been a great deal of talk here about funding higher education. The President has declared his presidency one of the most important goals of the wise people, and the government will then implement the concept of the wise people in such a way that he will not find money to finance higher education in such a way that Estonian universities will find an opportunity to conclude administrative agreements with the government and the Estonian state and continue normal activities. It is extremely regrettable that the government is aiming to balance the President's politics, the pursuit of a wise nation, with a foolish nation that is easy to rule and madden. Nor was the proposal concerning the growth of teachers and the transition to education in Estonian supported. I think that in the current situation, where we also have a large number of Ukrainian refugees, additional funding for learning in Estonian is particularly topical and necessary. However, no additional opportunity was found in the wartime budget to support the funding of the Defence League. This is in a situation where the Defence League is joined by a large number of people and additional expenditure on educational gatherings and training is not foreseen in this year's budget and is regrettably excluded. All that, of course, concerns energy efficiency improvements and other sensible proposals. Unfortunately, it was not even possible to discuss it. In this situation, it is very easy for the Isamaa Group to make a choice. If such a bad budget is linked to the government's confidence [in the vote], then it would immediately vote 'no' twice. Thank you for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U104	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U105	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U106	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U107	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard all day and all evening from the Reform Party how EKRE has done everything to prevent and prevent the adoption of drafts and very good drafts, and if these amendments had been processed, we would have been on the brink of disaster and everyone would have been stuck and, especially in today's war situation, it would have been extremely dangerous. I'm sorry, this is literally bullshit. It is not to stop our parliamentary work, but to the contrary, so that we can move forward so that we can discuss, discuss and discuss different issues and topics, so that the coalition does not simply drive over the opposition and we can find some sort of compromise, a common sense, as is really necessary in the current war situation. But, as we can see, such compromises, consensus, finding common solutions or seeking them, the coalition is not absolutely interested. It is going to completely auto-attack methods, simply four drafts are being taken in unprecedented fashion and everything is being linked to a vote of confidence. I do not remember my practice or my past, that such a scale would simply have been so brutally run over the opposition. That is what we saw in the committees, where 1.8 seconds were given to clarify one amendment. Well, I'm sorry, that's a brutal mockery of all our parliamentary order and democracy, that's not normal. But you see, those in power think it's normal. We hear every day how our media, who have now been bought by those in power by lowering VAT, have regard to the upcoming elections, how our media and our government are cursing Hungary, how the whole media is subject to government, is their voicepiece. We see exactly the same here and today. So you can't talk about democracy. If such a way of governance is liberal democracy, it probably is, then God save us and all, our whole society for such democracy. I'm coming up with this extra budget. In fact, it's completely dim and scam, because different costs are divided between different lines, in different places. This concerns defence, security, the social sphere. We don't see the actual destinations where the money is put. We see that national defence actually gets much less, we see that security gets much less, we see that the social sphere gets much less. 100 million goes to the government and most of the rest goes to refugees. Much of the money for refugees goes to the educational sphere. Very beautiful, of course, children must be trained. But what do we do? We train them in Estonian. Ukrainian children who are already traumatized by war will be placed in Estonian schools, educated in Estonian, integrated and embodied, instead of providing them with a good education in Ukrainian and education in Estonian. We despise them, we kidnap them from Ukraine. We already know today that a lot of them don't want to go back. If we continue to perpetuate them, we will create a huge problem for Ukraine. Analysis of the study by the University of Saint Andrews shows that, if the government's goal is to succeed, they will be able, to a large extent, to perpetuate these refugees, the population of Ukraine by 2040 is already in a major demographic crisis, with a 33% reduction in the number of children, 56% and a 36% reduction in the number of people at work. Is that what we want for our friends? Is that what we want for the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian country, whom we support in words, but at the same time we want to rob them of the most expensive of their people, their children? The Minister said that the extra budget will focus on the most important things. But the well-being of our own people, the coping with this terrible inflation and the rise in prices, which is actually precisely the result of the government's actions and failure to do so? We are talking about the stock market here, we are talking about CO2, we are talking about excise duty and all the other measures that the government can use to bring down prices to improve the well-being of our people. But they don't. Doesn't the well-being of our people cost anything at all? I'm running out of time. The last thing I can say is that the minister here praised LNG very much too, but why must we waste millions knowing that the port to be built in the wrong place at the right time will not be finished if we have a northern port in Paldiski, where there is a mule where only a few kilometres of pipeline would need to be built and everything would be there? No tens or hundreds of millions. But the government doesn't want to hear about it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The government wants to put more spending on people dozens of times, and with all this extra budget, it just wants to make our people even poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U108	Rene Chef, please! Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedure? Excuse me, Mr. Chef! I need to apologize for a moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U109	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I have a procedure. Maybe you can look at your e-mails, that maybe you have a letter from some ministers saying he can't come today? After all, it has happened before that, at late hours, ministers will not be coming to make these presentations, and then we will be taking these items on the agenda... Better watch out, make a little reflex. How does it look to expect all the waitresses today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U110	Mr. Kruusmäe, don't worry! Everything happens in its own time or a little later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U111	No, I'm not worried...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U112	Very good. Then Mr. Chef will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U113	Yeah. When we started discussing draft 605, the President of the Reform Party Group spoke with a very emotional speech on how we are going to discuss the additional budget for defending Estonia today and how the EKRE Putinists are terribly blocking it and how bad it all is, and we heard how bad we are, all members of the EKRE. Well, great! If we always start this discussion here, we can stick to me coming here again and starting to talk about the structure of the Reform Party at the beginning of 2021, when it was proposed to join Estonia in Russia, to put Estonia out of NATO for a referendum and to put Estonia out of the European Union for a referendum. Anyone can draw their own conclusions and ask questions about who the putinists are here. We can, of course, continue here for years like this, but is there a need? This is also the point of the speaker to whom I referred. But now I come to the budget. It has been going through here many times today that it was not possible to process and did not arrive and a bunch of proposals were made and it is not good and it is not good and it is not good here and there. In fact, we are honest, the coalition did not have a substantial desire to discuss opposition proposals. I have pointed it out here many times today, but it is true that if we are given between 0.6 and 2 seconds to table one amendment, then every person will realise that it will not be possible to talk about it in that time. What was the purpose of this obstruction? After all, the aim was for us to be able to discuss the granting of additional funding to the Defence League, which was very important, and a very good presentation was made in Leo Kunna, or we could discuss jointly how to bring down the excise duty of energy carriers as a whole, on which there are proposals from the opposition, from several political parties, or from the reduction of VAT on energy carriers. All this in order to help our people, businesses, the Estonian people and to face the next challenges that await us. Or, for example, discussing an additional EUR 75000 for the Nuclear Power Task Force. The Minister of Finance said here earlier that these funds, which were given true, were 250,000, were the money that could be spent this year. The website of the Ministry of the Environment clearly states the statement of the Minister for the Environment that an additional EUR 75000 is needed for this year's working group. You can see it there. It is black in white that this money is needed this year, not [it is not right] to put it into next year's budget. Or proposals to give the Ministry of Rural Affairs extra resources. These were all matters of substance and could have been discussed if there had been a willingness to actually take these matters forward and to negotiate with the opposition as well. There have been several claims here today that we are in a hurry, we are in a hurry, we have a budget for protecting Estonia. There have been very good speeches here today and several times it has been said that, in fact, the government has been doing this budget for months. Although I rarely agree with the Social Democrats, I must admit that today they, too, have brought it out here that, if there had been a desire to be involved, there would have been time to involve the opposition and, in fact, to negotiate effectively those issues that need to be resolved. That's where we can go from here. Today we have all read how the Prime Minister proposed to the Minister for Economic Affairs in the media that he would like to have proposals by mid-June to reduce or maintain energy prices at such a level as to avoid price increases. All of this could have been discussed during this process, which could have been normal if we could have discussed the budget normally in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, during which we would have discussed the reduction of excise duties, the reduction of VAT on energy carriers. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U114	If you can't do it any other way, you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U115	Thank you. Some time ago, I asked the Minister of the Interior whether and if so, which scissors were required by the Ministry of the Interior to receive additional funding for the additional budget. How much was asked, and how much was received? Today I got the answer that there were no scissors. All the money the Ministry of the Interior asked for in the extra budget, he got it. Well, that's great. Not long ago we talked here about a small thing that was very important: 'Home Fire Safe', the Rescue Board and the local government programme to help families that do not have the means to repair their fireplaces. That's why I didn't see the money there, but the letter I received today told me that there were no scissors between what was asked and what was received. Consequently, this is not considered relevant. But that's one real thing that would actually save lives and help people survive. Instead, after two years, we will give a gift in millions of euros by lowering the value added tax (VAT) for the press from 9% to 5%. Absolutely mysterious! Is this really one of the most important things in the process of processing this additional budget for the defence of Estonia, that we reduce the value added tax (VAT) for the press? Stupid is the one who doesn't find a reason why one thing or another is done. You can come up with all kinds of wonders, and you can find reasons why we're doing this. But there's no way it's gonna look in this picture. Unfortunately, that's what it is, it's a paradigm in general. We will also look at a big picture, for example, of how Estonia supports the fact that in ten years' time, we will also start taxing 5-megawatts and larger wood-based boiler houses in the CO trade, how we are actually moving towards the whole process of housing, the whole residential sector, moving to the CO2 trading system. All of this is what actually sneaks us in the direction that we will see different price increases in ten years' time. This extra budget has not been made, thinking about the Estonian people and our better future, the budget we are talking about here today. With this statement, I must stop and say that it is not possible to support such an additional budget. I certainly cannot vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U116	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U117	I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U118	Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My good groupmate, Urmas Reinsalu, said that the problem is not what is included in the supplementary budget, but what is not in it. This time, however, I should say that Urmas was insolently gentle. Actually, the problem is what's in it. With a little bit of a concussion. For example, increasing income support is certainly appropriate. But what's in it and what's not in it? This budget was supposed to be a wartime budget that guarantees military security, energy security and social security. If we're going to look for it in that budget, I'm the one who put on the glasses to read it, you could take a glass to look at it, but it wouldn't really help, you should start looking for a microscope, and maybe you wouldn't. Fifteen million out of 800 million have been contributed to improving military capabilities. Napp 2%, doesn't even come out 2%. If we add a wide range of defences to this, there'll be a few percent more. But the budget is called a "wartime" budget. Let's see how energy security is guaranteed. We also heard from the Minister that don't worry, the euro money taps will go off immediately and 22 million will go to the boiler houses to switch to local heating. I really hope so. I hope that these taps will open at the same time as this budget becomes the law, because if we do not start this transition immediately, then we will certainly not get anywhere for the heating period. I guess it really isn't in the fall to see if we have managed to switch to local heating, which in any case is significantly and significantly cheaper than gas. Or we could take the subject of social security and the EUR 50 that should have been paid out to people by 10 December at the latest. Here it was asked what such a date has come about when we talk about people having a problem, inflation has grown wild, almost 20%, food prices have increased, people need to prepare for the heating period, they need to buy firewood, but we will pay them this support in December. Then they said, "Maybe in November we'll get something." At that time, inflation has eaten another 10% of this EUR 50. Why can't you pay it off? If it was decided that the opposition's proposal to enforce the extraordinary increase of EUR 20 by 1 July and the tax exemption from the average pension by 1 July would not be acceptable in any way, why did it not be set at EUR 50 by 1 July but somewhere at the end of the year? It just doesn't make any sense. At first glance, in fact, as I have said once from here: the coalition would probably have wished to have it paid out by 24 February 2023. Just a little before the elections, so that people can remember very well who has given them 50 euros, and it does not matter if another ten percent had left there. It's not basically helping people. Let us also look at this inflation control, which in itself is important. Indeed, keeping energy prices to a maximum level and making them affordable is certainly what will also help to control inflation. There is no doubt about that. But more importantly, if we were much more active, much more focused on having additional energy production on the ground, micro-producers, this would be done through additional solar energy production or the further introduction of storage methods. There were a series of proposals, none of which were suitable for today's coalition. Now there's the cost of protection that's not in here. The Fatherland made a very modest and thoughtful, I would say, a very prudent proposal to increase by EUR 3 million, because more than 2 000 people have joined the Defence League and at least 3 000 people are expected to join by the end of the year. All of this requires training. I believe that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Defence have a state secret permit. Ask the National Audit Office for this report, read it. Think about whether all the opportunities that our defence forces can adopt, or adopt this year, have been or have not been made. I dare say it's not. We have actually set a very low ambition for ourselves in national defence. At this end, perhaps it would be worth saying that we couldn't even support Slava Ukrainian with 1.6 million, and we actually overcame [power]. Indeed, it is very difficult to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U120	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U121	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good colleagues, all of you who are watching us right now behind the monitor in your office! Those of you who may not really like my speech can use the volume button right now. I use it quite often myself when the Prime Minister talks here. Now, if you say common folk languages, it's already two o'clock in the morning, you can speak frankly here now! However, the Estonian state is not allowed to be run on a mood-based basis. What's all this comb about? Four of the five parties in the Riigikogu thought that, in view of the difficult situation in which we already tend to favour war refugees to our own people, we should also support our people during this great price increase, this great inflation, during this energy crisis. But one party found that no, only their party walks on the right foot, the other four parties walk on the wrong foot. So, our trees are alluded to, and we should understand. The way a representative of the Centre Party squealed around here, well, in the late hour, that it didn't go well, you got your proposals just, naturally, second, because they actually showed you the place. Perhaps the previous bill that we had for that clants... No, a cult? [[A voice from the hall.]] What are you, a beautiful magazine? Oh, quality, quality, yes, quality magazine. And you vote and you cry, but you understand who has the Prime Minister's hair dryer. So there's nothing here. I believe that in a crisis situation where inflation is quite high, where the neighbouring country can do anything, we simply have a mood-based management model. Now a little bit of the defense budget. EUR 400000 to check out where we have shelters, there will be signs and then people will be informed. We'll take the youth job, take the simple sailor park where we had the straw theater. There's a shelter down there. How long have the various youth associations wanted this shelter to be open to a youth centre or something else to revive it? At the same time, all these young people, their young parents and youth workers would know where there is one hiding place. But for us to build one shelter, it doesn't exist. Building a shelter is not extremely difficult. If that's the way the bump is, it's the other way around. We dig a big hole, concrete plates on it, don't have to be very thick concrete, six meters, just like it's on Naissaar, we can do the thinning. And we have some shelter. The hiding place isn't exactly the same. We can say that we have upper secondary schools and then we have institutions where education can also be hit. That's the way I see it, that's the hideout versus the shelter. 400,000 is too little. But what did the comb go off? Not because so many of these amendments were tabled, and now we have to start introducing ourselves around here, ho hoo hoo-hoo. The fact that the four drafts are already linked to a vote of confidence means that tomorrow the Reform Party or our Prime Minister can say: do you not see that we have 400% support? From here on out, it's only perhaps the litossphere that prevents our flying thoughts, reminding us of Daidalo and Icarus. But that's not what I'm going to say right now. I've noticed that when things get feathery, it's taken too personally and on a gender-based basis. However, I would like to be extremely gender-neutral and refer to the Centre Party that you accept what is happening. That's the charm and pain of the coalition. But let us know that there is at least one party in the Riigikogu who steps on the right foot, and the other four parties step on the wrong foot. But what happens later, as it were? Later, because the four of us have gone on the road to this family benefit, we will be able to compromise that at least we will get half. Therefore, we can be grateful that we receive at least half of this support from Estonian families. So less mood-based leadership, I'd still like science-based leadership, but it's a little over-the-counter at this late hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U122	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U123	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U124	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In troubled times, the country must have an answer to all the threats that threaten our people. However, this additional budget is deficient on these issues. We will find an answer to this in order to increase military defence and help the Ukrainians, which is undoubtedly important and appropriate expenditure. However, the additional budget does not answer how we ensure the livelihood of Estonian families, how we, as a society, face extreme inflation, price increases that threaten to rob children of development opportunities or hope for their homes. Security also means feeling secure, confident that your life can be planned for more than one month. In a strong Estonia, security and coping must be inextricably linked. Huge inflation and the cost of living make many fragile. Simply put, out of 100 euros, the cost of living has already taken 19 euros. The average wage recipient must spend 100 euros per month more than he normally wants to live. Even, to be precise, nearly 230 euros more. In a year, inflation absorbs more than a month's wages. A pensioner loses a month's pension. Inflation is a regressive tax with the greatest impact on people on lower and middle incomes. Inflation is disproportionately damaging to their lives, because the bulk of their expenditure is expenditure on food, home and transport, which has increased the most. Today, most earners are poorer in terms of purchasing power than a year ago. Bread, macaroni, fish, firewood, car fuel, more or less everything is at least twice as expensive. As Riigikogu and also as a government, we have a duty to anticipate and prevent and not to adapt afterwards. Autumn winter with high energy prices, rising unemployment, recession and continuing high inflation will be difficult. This extra budget here should give the people of Estonia an answer on how we intend to keep Estonia together, how Estonian families survive in such a way that there are no more losers in society. But I won't. There is a grateful increase in income support in this budget, but there are no solutions to preventing people from needing it at all. Social Democrats want people to cope with their pay or pensions. Social benefits, especially temporary ones, are not basically a solution; the solution is to reduce the tax burden on medium- and lower-wage earners, so that more money can be left in the hands of a hole in the cost of living. We need to give our families confidence in tomorrow's future. From this logic, we have proposed a social pillar in the supplementary budget that is currently missing. The minimum wage and pension are exempt from income tax. Raising the first and second child's allowance from EUR 60 to EUR 100. School food: price increases must not reduce healthy diets. Raising the salaries of teachers, trainers and higher education teachers. Restoring children's recreational education grants on an earlier scale. A war can't apologize for not helping your people. The crisis is everywhere and bites hard. However, the proposals of the Socialists are not being discussed in this Chamber today. Therefore, we cannot support this additional budget either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U126	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U127	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good night coming up! I'm talking about two things. I'm talking about unbalanced expenditure for war refugees and energy security, the LNG terminal on the Pakri Peninsula. A few figures. As of today, there are 38468 war refugees in Estonia, or as of yesterday, and there are 28920 in Latvia. Taking into account the population figures, not all numbers are going to be said, we have 2.9% of the population yesterday, in Latvia 1.5, half of the population. Latvia has, as you remember, 1.9 million and we have 1.3. Now, look at how much: we have a third of this EUR 800 million going to war refugees, but there will be 116 million, 277 million in Latvia. That's yesterday's data. So actually, we're... Oh, yeah, and when the Latvians get their asses... By the way, they account for a maximum of 40,000 refugees. We, as you know, at 50,000. As a result, the Latvians will have a per pound of EUR 2,900, we will have a 5400. These are interesting observations when we look at how Estonia and Latvia assist Ukraine. I stress that we and I personally have chosen a very clear side. The Ukrainians are fighting a war in their own country, and they are absolutely right. But looking at the proportions, in the first month of war, we spent 0.8% of GDP on so-called military aid, the Latvians had 0.03%. What does that really mean? That means we gave up a lot of our supplies, our supplies. Remember, at the same time, the German Secretary of Defense said that he couldn't afford to be helped. In short, these two things, on the one hand, the amounts granted to war refugees with an additional budget and then the ratios. When comparing Estonia with neighbouring Latvia, there is nothing about solidarity here. Neither on military soil, although the neighbour is Russia in Latvia and Estonia, nor in helping them with an additional budget. The second point is that inflation is rampaging and, in the autumn, when, so to speak, this cluster, according to these drafts, 50 euros for children and old people, inflation is probably even worse, more than 20%. It means rapid impoverishment, just like in times of great depression. The postman wrote in the May 5 editorial that once he has no oxygen, he can't help others. That's where we're headed with this budget. But another thing, LNG and so-called energy supply. I have a letter sent to the Prime Minister and other heads of state from the Northern Port on 13 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U128	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U129	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U130	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U131	It was May 13th. I'm not going to read everything. I'm going to read a few things. Here it is said that it will be possible to guarantee security of gas supply to Estonia in the near future. According to the company that owns the LNG floating terminal, the port is entirely suitable for a floating terminal. And speaking of the port of Alexela, it is said that Alexela's floating terminal at the top of the peninsula is inappropriate and is essentially located on the high seas, in Kloogaranna, etc. There has never been a port at this location because the natural location is inappropriate. The owners of the floating terminal are known not to allow the floating terminal to be connected to a gas pipeline from a certain wave height of 0,7 metres, which would mean that the terminal would have to stop working and move beyond the shore to the raid. It is also unlikely that the necessary infrastructure will be completed in time. Not only has it sounded in this hall, but it's an ah, some kind of a booby-boo or a Russian port. But I am now quoting that the Northern Port of Paldiski is prepared to place its territory at the disposal of the Ministry of Defence. And if the Russians, who are so-called suspicious, say in writing that it is possible to hand over this sum to the Ministry of Defense, well, that's another story. So why don't you think about it? But what else? On May 13th, the leaders of the Northern Port sent a letter to the ruler, but on 11th, the Northern Port started building a quay. Two days before. By now, the quay is over 100 metres long. When I approached the Environmental Board with an inquiry a few days ago, the environmental board's answer was that Alexela didn't have a building permit. There is no building permit and there was no coordination of the Environmental Board at that point. So for a week, in West Harju municipality, who called himself a green municipality, the first building in Estonia had already been, yesterday the ship had also arrived on the raid and moved there. So much for solidarity in helping refugees and the so-called 'energy' rip-off from Russia. The race is running, as you can see, and all the means are allowed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U132	Jaak Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U133	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! Estonia certainly expects this extra budget, but the Estonian people also expect that, in this critical situation that we have in the immediate vicinity, the political parties of the Riigikogu, the political groups of the Riigikogu, will cooperate more than ever. Our Prime Minister loves to say it's a wartime budget. Yes, although there are really no bombs in Estonia, there is a great war in our immediate vicinity. But this assumes that the government should have included all the political groups immediately, already at the start of the budgeting process, to include proposals from all political parties and to bring them together in an additional budget. But the government union has not wanted to do this and has not included the opposition in the budget process, more precisely, in the process of drafting. Surely there are good things in this budget, as in any budget. Of course, what is positive is what makes the social democrats particularly happy is that the limit of living will rise. At the same time, it only helps the poorest. In a situation where prices are rising at a very rapid rate, where inflation is the highest in recent history, middle-class families are also impoverished in Estonia. Families who have otherwise done very well now need the support of the state. The Social Democrats have proposed a solution that could help these people in particular. The minimum wage should be exempt from income tax. Instead, the government association has written a grant of EUR 50 into the budget. It will not be paid until next autumn. This represents a little over EUR 4 per month, or EUR 4.1. This is non-existent support in a situation where families are impoverished, where underemployment is an increasing problem. Indeed, in Estonia, the cities are not on fire today, but we have a number of areas where it burns. I am very concerned about the issue of education. Teachers expect a raise. The country has promised that the average wage of teachers must be 120% of the average wage of the country. That was supposed to be the case last year. But the government doesn't give teachers any more cents on the extra budget. As a result, the lack of employment of teachers deepens. Perhaps an even greater fire will burn us in the field of higher education. It is still unprecedented, looking at Estonia's recent history, that for three months we have no administrative agreements between the state and universities. It is simply with the money the state offers that universities are no longer able to manage, it is not possible to pay lecturers a competitive salary. The result is that Estonian-language free study places are cut and Estonian-language higher education suffers free of charge, but the government does not give a single cent to put out this fire. It's embarrassing and embarrassing. As I said, in today's situation, the people expect the political groups in the Riigikogu, the political parties, to work together to ensure that the government union listens to the opposition. The opposition has made a series of very sensible proposals that would help to put an end to the fires that I was talking about. The Minister of Finance, however, dimmed here on the remote, said that we must hurry because some opposition has proposed too many improvements. Perhaps this is true, but no one, no force, prevented the government from supporting sensible opposition amendments, which would really have helped to alleviate these crises. Therefore, at least I and my group cannot support this draft budget, we cannot trust today's government on this issue. I can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U134	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu's speech chair, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, "Finish" must be the right word for today's word stream. It is awkward to try to talk about the budget here too, because no one has done so today. Very much has been said about Estonian politics, very much has been said about how we drag after us to sow Putin's panic, what he has requested in the West: submission, foolish decisions. The weapons are his screwed price increase and the refugee crisis. This is exactly what he hopes to wear out the West and also stop helping Ukraine. But it's not just this year's effort, it's a long-term effort. That specific started last spring and has always hoped for it. Today, we have heard mainly about the misery of Estonian politics. The EKRE, of course, says that no additional budget is needed, it is Ukrainians that must be removed, no additional costs are needed for refugees, no education in Estonian for refugees, no income support, no internal security, no protection costs, no income support level, all of this is an unnecessary thing and it is worth preventing the government from working for. This is exactly the political instability Putin wants in Europe. That's all he wants. He doesn't want territories. He wants submission and weakness. In these circumstances, the Coalition Party's Centre Party says that it does not trust its government delegation, says that too little, and what they agree there does not matter, the party committee decides something else. It's embarrassing again. It is a pity that the Centre Party will not listen to what Eesti Pank said only yesterday about the fact that it is not possible to extinguish the fire with petrol. The ambition is to pour more heat into the fire and pretend that we are controlling prices and inflation in this way. It's not that bad. Fatherland, why he still exists, doesn't understand at all. This party, who once fought against the breasts, said that the budget balance must be included in the constitution, all that matters now is what is missing from the budget and how much more money must be given. Absolutely no clue to the state of the budget. Absolutely no impact analysis, no indication of consequences. It's extremely embarrassing, really embarrassing to listen to. I have also seen the Fatherland, which has built and promoted Estonia. Right now, you just want to move him. Including, although you do not do the obstruction yourself, you come here to justify that Parliament cannot work during the crisis. Your chairman's speech was essentially that too little money and, in fact, that Parliament should have been sloshing here with hundreds of proposals. But what is extra disgusting about this whole debate is the kind of attitude that did not exist in the past, which was completely avoided in the construction of our freedom, but right now it is heard from almost every party that we are the opposition, we come to your aid, we help you, we give you money. It's like giving your own, like people pulling themselves out by their hair, like the Münchhausen effect. With the people's own money, we cannot draw people out of poverty, not by abolishing taxes, or by distributing even taxes, as you all want. That's not the point of the country. The point of the country is above all to do... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U136	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U137	However, it is the intention of the State to collect taxes in order to do something in common with this money and better than it would be possible to do with personal expenses for this purpose. National defence certainly belongs to this category; buying gas definitely belongs to this category; raising income support is included in this category. This is the point of the country: helping the poor, doing common things, security, education. Here you go, education is in short supply. You're talking about taking 300 million more and dividing it evenly. Kids don't need it. Most children can handle their parents very well, and their parents can handle them, but what they need is a good education. That's not what you're worried about. Children also need this, children also need the state in which the country is handed over to them. Indebted State? It's not helping children if we take a loan and then distribute them evenly. This is ridiculous. A good country is what children want us to inherit. Of course, the macroeconomic impact is still absolutely amazing. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was said how these budgetary disadvantages have been too severe. They were before the crisis, all cumulative in times of crisis, and it does not reduce inflation, as everyone here is saying, but increases inflation. That's the main problem. You come here and you're uplifting yourself: you help people and you control inflation. No, you can only increase it, as you suggest. We can mitigate the effects of inflation on the weakest. We can do things together. We can do things together with the loan money, too, but not with us coming to your aid. We're here, we're here to control the prices. No, I don't. Fatherland, cut the bullshit! I'm most sorry for you, I promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U138	Thank you. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U139	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I know that, of course, any member of the Riigikogu can talk about what he or she has in mind. But does it really come together with our parliamentary spirit and courtesy and all the norms when the vice-president of the Reform Party comes through the remote and literally calls out all the rest of the political parties, the Central Party, the Fatherland, the EKRE, toss us into fools and fools and self-puppets, and God knows who, shows supreme arrogance and disrespect not only against members of Estonian political parties but also against members of other political parties? Can such behavior be tolerated in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U140	Thank you. Well, I guess it's true that you got everyone except one, but I can't get involved in what's inside. During the negotiations, members of the Riigikogu can talk about what they want. Heiki Hepner, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U141	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have this question: how do you feel about the good old unmistakable Reform Party being back again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U142	It wasn't a procedural question. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U143	Yeah, I'd like to make such a statement to get my hands off our relic. Jürgen Ligi is the embodiment of our relic, living history, and everything should be allowed to him. You can't touch him, or he could turn to dust.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U144	Thank you. I would now like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U145	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that everyone is so enthusiastic about supporting, adopting and debating the additional budget, despite the late hours. I've been on the remote several times today. There's no more whimpering and wanting to get justice back. But there is nothing to do, this last speech here was, unfortunately, a completely medical case. After all, this was not in harmony with what has happened in the last few hours. It did not reflect absolutely what has been discussed here in the last few hours. The issues raised by all the speakers, by all the questioners, are not affected by this. It was a medical vomit that was aimed at all the other members of the Riigikogu, except for reform parties, respectable, political groups and all speakers against or against or against, or how we say who has participated in this long debate today. It's not amazing. I guess we all throw out a certain grudge from time to time, want to argue, and want to settle it. But what hurts the ear, especially with the previous speaker, is that his love for Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin is so deep, so passionate, so devoted that he cannot give any speech without being jealous of anyone else, of any political party, but above all, of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, who, in his view, is his competitor in winning Putin's love. I understand he has not noticed for many years how Putin and his friends, associates, associates of crime, washed their money in the banks in Estonia. He made heroic efforts not to notice. The Reform Party has made a heroic effort to forget the VEB Fund, to forget the person who took the money out of it, to forget how R-Maintened suddenly somewhere found the money to fund the party, to forget much more about what they have done to destroy our national body. And they keep doing it. The Early Childhood Education Act, which says that 50% of what you teach may be in another language, is the destruction of the position of the Estonian language. And then these same people are talking about how the whole education system must be translated into Estonian. How do we do that if we undermine the foundations of Estonian language in the Early Childhood Education Act? You know, it's like putting a vampire in the floor. When the floor collapses, the house is no longer habitable. And then they point the finger right here, "Putinist! Putin!" My dear friends! You're all lying here in a row, starting with the Minister and ending with the previous speaker, talking about how this is a defense bill. What fucking defense bill? A few millions of nothing! A few millions of nothing! But 200... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U146	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U147	Yeah, I got carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U148	Looks like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U149	Looks that way. But 272 million are being spent on Russification of Estonia. People come from Russia to Estonia, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of them are spent every day. For your kids, you can't, it's for the future, it can't, it's a fixed cost! But to strangers, but to Russianize Estonia, we have money for this. After all, this extra budget has two objectives. One of the goals is to destroy the Estonian nation state, which the Reform Party has done relatively successfully with all its governments. The second goal is to steal money from the state budget to those of you and anyone who will return it to the Reform Party and all kinds of companies, shadows and everything else. It's depressing. Voltaire said this sentence: "Destroy the lowly one! " Voltaire meant the corrupt, corrupt Catholic Church in France. We actually have the exact same task: destroy the vile one! This party that poisons Estonia, which has poisoned the media, which has poisoned the special services that have poisoned the public authorities, the official community. Destroy the vile! As long as this vile riot is raging in Estonia, Estonia will go downhill. Our nation will be destroyed, our nation will be destroyed, our language will die, our people will migrate. Destroy the vile!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U150	Thank you. Now speaking from the top of the negotiating round, Aivar Sõerd. I'm sorry, you've changed your mind! I am very pleased that you are very welcome to the Riigikogu Chair. A little extra time, Aivar?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U151	Thank you. If I have to, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U152	Got it. Thank you. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U153	What the previous speaker said here, of course, is not right. The point is that the creation of an additional budget was due to the exceptional situation and the urgent need to react to the changed situation. Moreover, as a result of the various crises, additional budgets have been drawn up for the third year in a row. In fact, there are also three areas in the current supplementary budget to which attention is paid. These are energy security and energy investments, different costs for refugees, and thirdly human coping, internal security and defence. During this difficult year, the additional budget will obviously provide support to strengthen people's security, provide support to the most vulnerable groups, support Estonia's energy security, strengthen preparedness to cope with the effects of the energy crisis. But what I wanted to say is that the budget is negative, but let us also not forget that we had not actually created buffers in the sense of public finances when we entered this crisis, were not prepared for it. From 2016 to 2018 there was no better budget deficit than in 2019, but there was no crisis in those years. But when we look at statistics, we see that quite a number of Member States of the European Union were able to make their budgets with surpluses in those years. Germany, for example, but there were others, even Lithuania. But Estonia was in the minus. Indeed, in April, the Prime Minister was in briefing before the Riigikogu and he rightly pointed out that when Estonia entered the crisis, when it broke out in 2009, for example, in 2005, 2006 and 2007 the budgets were in surplus. There were problems with inflation then too, but the Estonian state had collected reserves and created budget buffers, and at that time we had a completely different situation when the crisis entered than when we entered the corona crisis in 2020. Well, that's one of the reasons why we have to look at these disadvantages right now. However, this does not mean that the budget deficit can be increased indefinitely. The budget deficit is the cause of inflation. Figuratively speaking, if the state collects less money on the market in the form of taxes than it gives back budget orders, this is the additional demand and the cause of additional inflation. This has to be borne in mind when we are talking about increasing subsidies in a situation where the budget is in deficit. So all in all, we now have a number of crises and public finances in terms of... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U154	Please! One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U155	When we entered this crisis, our public finances were not ready for this. We had forgotten the principle that in good times reserves must be collected, budget buffers must be created. The budget was shot down in the years 2016-2018 and today we have to resolve this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U156	Thank you very much. Now... Uh, procedural question, Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U157	Yes, dear Chairman. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U158	Cute co-worker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U159	First of all, I apologise for not being a procedural matter or a question. But first of all, I am just amazed that the last speakers have not offended the social democrats, considered them insulted or blamed them for the budget deficit. I would like to remind colleagues that we have three..., no, sorry, ten seats in the Riigikogu, we represent 6 to 7% of voters' preferences by ratings. We're almost there in the house, actually. So, ladies and gentlemen, please do not forget the Socialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U160	Thank you, dear fellow. It is now in the negotiations, I understand, speaking from the floor. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U161	Thank you. I wanted to thank the previous speaker. We all know Aivari, a good colleague is very modest. I would like to draw further attention to the chairman of his party and their efforts. Really, this government has worked hard. In my opinion, both Aivar and Jürgen Ligi could have found some positive things in this budget if they were looking well. But I don't know if they don't know what's in that budget, or if they want to keep it a secret from us, but in any case they didn't think it was necessary to stop at the important and positive nuances they could find if they wanted to. I could've done that. I'm telling you, there were some good things for me too. But I also asked the Minister and actually didn't get an answer. These important costs of wartime are in this budget, and the opposition was also asked not to come with other things. But how did it come to be that these most important issues, in addition to the Ukrainian war refugees, were specifically marked fuel and the reduction of VAT on media publications, which was actually a little secret to us. This is why it is difficult for me to support this [additional budget], because I do not think it should be a secret either to me or to the public in Estonia. So, in fact, this debate could have been more open. Those questions were not covered. And why were the priorities here that we need to endorse with this additional budget? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U162	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. We have come to the preparation of the final vote on the draft 608. It's a matter of trust. Let's start preparing the vote. I am simply asking, just in case, whether some groups have a wish at the moment to take a break. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, it seems, at this point in time, that no political group wishes to take a break. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U163	Yes, indeed, actually, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, I will look, first the vote is announced, and only when everyone is present can it take a break. If the President-in-Office would allow me, I would do it after that watch has gone away. I once...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U164	I understand you want everyone to come to this room nicely, and then you can ask for a break. I think like I said to you once, you really do have that right. So let's get everybody in the hall, then you can take a break. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Dear colleagues, I will put the draft to the final vote... Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Did something happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for this opportunity. I will take this opportunity to take two seconds' break on behalf of the Conservative People's Party just as much as we were given to present the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U166	Thank you. Now I'm facing a pretty big challenge. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Two seconds of recess. Break two seconds. The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U167	Thank you. Five minutes break, please. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U168	I don't think you can take a break right now, to be honest. We took a break once. If it had been done at the same time, if it hadn't been for this two-second break, it would have been five minutes past the two-second break, but we had a break, everyone had enough time to discuss in two seconds. We've come back here. Okay. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 608 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U169	With the result of 54, against 29, draft law 608 on the additional budget of the State initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2022 has been adopted as a law. 11th item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U170	Let's go to the 12th item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs 136. I would like to ask Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U171	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the explanatory memorandum of bill 136 to the second reading of the draft law amending the law on fishing. Procedure in the Steering Committee between first and second readings. The draft law amending the Fishing Act was initiated by the Rural Commission on 21 January 2020. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 12 February 2020 and the first reading was closed. The Ministry of the Environment was in favour of establishing an annual allowable catch per gear for herring and ink in order to test the operation of the reference quantities and to assess the risks arising from such management. Rather, the Ministry of Rural Affairs was in favour of establishing an annual allowable catch per gear for all species of fish. The Committee on Rural Affairs supported the transition to individual quotas for all fish species, but directed the ministries to negotiate and seek a compromise. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft 136 with the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 13 October 2020. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft 136 at its meetings on 25 January and 10 May 2022. The last session examined the compromise amendment, which was a compromise between the two ministries, which amended the entire text of the draft and took procedural decisions. The members of the Commission asked whether solutions other than reductions in fishing rights, such as increases in fines, had been discussed. Ain Finland replied that the maximum penalty for a fisherman, a natural person, was EUR 1200 and that the company had EUR 32000. In practice, there are examples where it is understood that the ship's captain does not commit irregularities on his own. There is currently a procedure for companies that have been subject to similar infringements in the last three years. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 27 February 2020 at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the compromise amendment, which was created in cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which amends the entire text of the draft. Explanations of the amendments to the draft text. Point 1 of the draft law amends the second sentence of Paragraph 42 (1) of the Fisheries Act and empowers the Government of the Republic not only to fish for herring at sea but also to establish annual catches per fishing gear for commercial fisheries on Lake Peipsi, Lämmim and Pihkva. Point 2 of the draft law amends the first sentence of Paragraph 42 (7) of the Fisheries Act in order to provide that, when fishing on Lake Peipsi, Lamp and Pihkva has established an authorised annual catch per gear, the fishing authorisation shall specify the annual catch authorised by the fishing gear included in the authorisation, by species, calculated as the product of the fishing opportunities allocated to the fishing gear concerned and the annual allowable catch established for that gear. Point 3 of the draft adds to § 42 (7) of the Fisheries Act, which states that if the same fishing authorisation includes a multi-gear fishing option for which an authorised annual catch has been established, the fishing authorisation shall sum up for each species the product of the authorised annual catch of each gear of that species and the fishing opportunities for that gear. Point 4 of the draft law supplements § 42 (8) of the Fisheries Act. When fishing on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva, the target species for herring with Peipsi ink and crotch as target species and other species of fish caught with these gears are marginal. Point 5 of the draft law complements Paragraph 42 (9) of the Fisheries Act, according to which a fishing authorisation for less than 10 nets is not granted on a water body authorised to use 10 or more gillnets or framework nets. Paragraph 44 (1) of the Fisheries Act is supplemented by the amendment in point 6 of the draft so that the fishing authorisation expires before the deadline, even if the annual catch authorised for fishing with fishing gear in the case provided for in Paragraph 42 (8) of the Fisheries Act is exhausted on that fishing authorisation and the possibility of continuing to fish on the basis of that fishing authorisation does not provide for the speciality provided for in subsection 82 of Section 42 of the Fisheries Act. Point 7 of the draft law empowers the Government of the Republic to establish an annual catch limit for each species of fish of Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva for which national quotas have been allocated in agreement with Russia. The amendment to point 8 of the draft law complements § 51 (5) of the Fisheries Act with a new element in respect of which a person has to be deducted from his historical fishing rights when calculating the extent of his historical fishing rights. The amendment to point 9 of the draft law supplements the title of § 56 of the Fisheries Act. As § 56 deals not only with the reduction of fishing opportunities but also with the rules for reducing the authorised annual catch, when the applicant caught more fish in the year preceding the year covered by the application, than the fishing opportunities allocated to him or the annual catches allowed for the fishing gear gave him the right. The amendment to point 10 of the draft clarifies the wording of Paragraph 58 (2) of the Fisheries Act in such a way as to make it clear that the provision applies only to the use of the year in the Baltic Sea by another operator of the current year, with the authorised annual catch. Point 11 of the draft amendment complements Paragraph 58 (21) of the Fisheries Act, which states that in the current year an operator cannot grant another operator the fishing opportunities allocated to it in terms of the number of fishing gears by which, by way of derogation, the second operator may be granted only the fishing opportunities allocated to it in terms of the number of fishing gears. The amendment to point 12 of the draft law complements Paragraph 58 (7) of the Fisheries Act, which adds a clarification of the Baltic Sea. The amendment to point 13 of the draft introduces restrictions on the transfer of the company's fishing rights to the persons associated with him listed in § 8 of the Income Tax Act in the event that the operator or the fisherman or the master of the fishing vessel who fish on the basis of his fishing authorisation has a valid penalty for serious infringement of those fishing requirements. Point 14 of the draft law states that § 61 81 adds a mandate rule to the Government of the Republic in order to be able to impose an obligation on the electronic submission of data relating to professional fishing unless already required by European Union legislation. The amendment to paragraph 15 of the draft is supplemented by § 61 (6) of the Fisheries Act. If a catcher is granted the right to use a stock which is not property to a specified part of the whole, this will lead to possible danger points. Amendment to point 16 of the draft amends § 70 (1) of the Fisheries Act and lays down the obligation to equip vehicles with GPS equipment used for fishing purposes. Point 17 of the draft law supplements the Fisheries Act with § 701 with the aim of providing for the use of video surveillance systems on fishing vessels. Point 18 of the draft law supplements the Fisheries Act by § 711. The main objective of the amendment is to control illegal fishing. According to § 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Estonia's natural resources and natural resources are national wealth, which must be used sustainably. The amendment to paragraph 19 of the draft amends § 76 of the Fisheries Act and lays down the liability for the infringement of the procedures for the installation and reporting of video surveillance systems. There are two points left. The amendment in paragraph 20 of the draft law complements § 781 of the Fisheries Act and provides for a penalty for concealing, violating or disposing of evidence, as well as for counterfeiting or concealing the vessel's identification, name or registration number under this Act in the national supervisory procedure or in the misdemeanour procedure for natural and legal persons. Amendment 21 supplements the Fisheries Act with § 90 and states that the new fishing arrangements for Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva are to be applied for the first time to professional fishing permits granted for 2023. To this end, the Government of the Republic may, by regulation, establish a permitted annual harvest for fishing gear on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva for the first time by 2023. The Government of the Republic shall have discretion as to which economically important species of fish caught on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva are it appropriate to establish the permitted annual catches for fishing gear. Procedural decisions of the commission of directors. The commission adopted the decision to put the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session for the second reading on 18 May 2022, I think that the second reading is now suspended by the proposal of 19 May. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U172	A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U173	Thank you, good chief! Perhaps you can look at your own list of e-mails, and there hasn't been such a letter from the ministers that in the meantime they have some reasons why they can't show up? At this late hour, ministers have just developed such a time of sleep. We would also know the sitting here in this way and, accordingly, to distribute our own energy. Do we have a brief review of this great strategy in 2035 from the Minister and Maris Lauri too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U174	Thank you. I'll inform you as soon as these letters come. Oh, you mean Tavi Asa by this 2035. At the moment, I have not been given these letters. At the moment, it doesn't seem to have come. The hope is that we are going to go through all the points one by one and not in a hurry. Let's get to the questions. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. But there are questions for you. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U175	Thank you, good chief! Good Tarmo! We remember that when we banned fur farms here, the next day, all those great ambassadors who had voted for this great idea, got in their mailbox these little papers called "The Fish Hurts." Within the framework of this draft: is fishing with the net less painful, or does it give some hope that we will then ban fishing with the hook in Estonia? Young fish rights advocates are interested in how we, as ambassadors, can get this bill... The good thing is we're interrupting, which means we can add it in there. But has there been any input from this target group for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U176	Thank you. This bill does not stipulate that there is some way to organise robbery fishing in Estonia. Kidnapping had already been banned. The basic idea and idea of this draft is that so far fishing takes the form of so-called Olympic fishing. This means that if the Government of the Republic orders that this year it will be possible, for example, to catch 500 tonnes of fish on Lake Peipsi and Lake Lämmijärv, and if one day this quota is caught at any time, this fishery will cease, the fish will be put in a freezer somewhere, and then the next semester will be waiting for another chance to catch it. But the advantage of the individual quotas is that you have a smooth chance of choosing the time because you are going to catch it because there are better weather conditions because there are better opportunities because there may be a better market situation. You certainly don't have to send this fish into the freezer, and then people will also be able to get more fresh fish directly from the fisherman. It provides flexibility and opportunities. That is the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U177	Sweet Riina, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U178	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The previous bill we discussed was number 608, it's now 136. What was the controversial place that caused this bill to stay so that it didn't make it to second reading? Is the compromise that has now been found suitable for all parties, or is there anyone else dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U179	Thank you, Riina, for that question. This bill has been the subject of a debate for quite a long time. I remember that, as long as I was still working as Minister for Rural Affairs, I started this discussion and debate. The current Olympic fishing system needs to be changed. In fact, most fishermen have come along with it, and they are in a very supportive position. Like every bill, there are both pros and adversaries here. But certainly today, this consensus is considerably greater. In the past, the Ministry of the Environment was mainly opposed to the transition to this quota. They explained this by not being able to control it, but now there are additional regulations that boats themselves must provide electronically the quantities of fish when they arrive at the port. There's GPS systems and electronic surveillance. This will provide an opportunity for better control of these activities. But I think that this is a draft for fishermen today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U180	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm trying to figure it out. I'm reading here and there. Here too are the opinions of the various representative organisations of fisheries, which were supported and not supported. Here is the Estonian Fishermen's Union, Pärnu Beach Fishers, the Estonian Fishermen's Union and the Livonian Bay Fisheries Council, and at the same time there is a land court in here who supports as if. What were the opinions of the representative organisations in this context? It's a pretty confusing summary. It is mostly said that the amendment to the law was not accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U182	It certainly cannot be said that the majority said that the amendment to the law was not accepted. As with any draft, there are both advocates and opponents of the amendment. But there's no way to read that most people were against changing the order. It certainly regulates this fishing activity and also provides better control. However, since the proposal was to interrupt the second reading, all stakeholders will be able to propose further amendments within 10 days, and then the Commission will discuss them further. The view that there were no supporters, I think, is not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U183	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U184	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! This Olympic fishing is a little bit incomprehensible to me. Is it just a saying from a long time ago, or is it really a competition? I would like to ask whether the fishermen of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus can catch us on Peipsi, or whether we are still extremely resolute and we also think them out of our Olympic fishing. How does it come and whether there's a man's area and a woman's area, and how does it form, this connection with the Olympic Games? Urmas Sõõrumaa obviously owes an answer, but you probably discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U185	Thank you for your question. It is certainly not an international competition where fishermen from other countries are invited to compete on Estonian fish stocks and compete for them. To make it easier to understand the Olympic fishery, I say once again that the Government of the Republic says that, for example, this year, it will be possible to catch 500 tonnes of a place in the first half of the year, from that date, and then, once this 500 tonnes of a place, this quantity has been received, this fishery will be stopped immediately by ministerial decree. But now, when we go to the reference quotas, that deadline will no longer be fixed, because each fisherman or fishing gear will have its own quantity that they can catch if they do not violate the rule that is laid down, for example during spawning, etc. It gives flexibility. This means that it is possible to get fresh fish for a much longer period instead of being caught in three weeks. They usually catch out in three or four weeks and are put in a freezer. Then, depending on the market situation, the fisherman will be able to organise his activities more flexibly because he knows that he has a quota and is able to catch that quantity. He doesn't have to compete with anyone, this moment of competition disappears, the so-called Olympic component. But this Olympic fishing creates that who has large, powerful vessels and better resources will gain an advantage and simply spend the resource unreasonably and the fish will be moved to the freezer. I remember last year there were over 500 tons of fish in those freezers for a long time and they couldn't realize it. This, in itself, is not very wise from an environmental point of view or from the point of view of carbon sequestration, to freeze fish over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U186	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U187	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! As you said now or a little while ago, the second reading of the bill is scheduled to be interrupted. Maybe you'll open up a little bit more, why is this second reading going to stop? There is no danger that, after the interruption, it will be stretched until March of the new year, and that [the draft] will simply fall out of the procedure because in the meantime there will be an election?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U188	Thank you, Heiki, for this question. I must congratulate Heiki: Heiki was the man who conducted the first reading of this bill in this Chamber. But unfortunately, Heiki was moved from the Committee on Rural Affairs somewhere else, and then I had to play that role. No, it's not a purpose to end it in any way or put it in a drawer. The goal is to go to the end of this. I am convinced that this third reading will certainly be done before autumn. But why interrupt the second reading? This is precisely because both ministries have proposed a lot of amendments. The importance of this draft is that both ministers have signed this draft, both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Affairs, so there is also political consensus to go on with it. In order to get better acquainted with the text, and if there is a need to make proposals and changes, so that they can do so, that is why this proposal was for Parliament to interrupt the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U189	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U190	Thank you. My second question is about the on-board cameras. This bill is a bit of a copy of it, and it actually mentions that this practice has long been in use at inspection posts. Only recently did we have a bill in this hall, which said that in the future, men or women who carry out inspections must have head cameras all the time on their bodies. Now I understand that we have reached the point where it has been said that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. How does this point correspond to this standard right here? Basically, the camera is on a ship or boat, the whole activity is filmed all the time, and it's accessible to somebody. Did you discuss whether there was a problem or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U191	Thank you. I am convinced that the Ministry has also taken a legal assessment of this. I know what cameras we're talking about, the main cameras at the inspection stations, when they're looking around, but this [on-board camera] is the kind of general camera that gives an overview of what's going on on the ship. We've got cameras everywhere when we walk the street. If it's marked and marked, I don't think there's any against. But in fact, fishermen themselves are also interested in ensuring that competition is fair so that we respect all the rules. I don't think there's gonna be a contradiction here. I know that in Denmark, for example, there are cameras on all fishing vessels long ago. The second thing is where a step forward has been taken, that it is no longer the case that when a fisherman comes to port with his catch, the so-called fish quantity will be measured there. Fishermen report in advance electronically how much fish they have and what kind of fish they are. This is going to get a lot easier and more modern. We're going technologically on this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U192	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U193	Thank you, good chief! Good friends of nobles, fellow minds! I was looking forward to this bill, 136 is his number, and now he's here. I don't really remember this first procedure, but in many groups I've wanted to be so fishing-conscious. After we forbade the furry farms here in a great rush and eagerness, these thoughts appeared that the fish was hurt because of this hook, although it is said that the pike must be such an average member of the Riigikogu with wit, 18 seconds and then it's like it's gone. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. It sounds tempting, the Olympics. It was also said that there is something like this in Denmark. It became even more exciting, and it turned out that there was also some kind of trap and sleeve in the fishing competition, i.e. the electronic view of whether the fish was in the boat or the fish was in the water or was in the meantime is whether the fish had landed on that boat or not. It is obvious that large fish are more caught than smaller and larger fish have greater opportunities. But then you could make sure that there's an individual area and there's a team area. Although I think that name might be misleading. The fact that we may be fishing too much may not really seem so unreasonable today, because we live in a difficult, critical time. It is possible that there is no way to go and catch this fish again during the crisis, is it the Olympics or is just a spartacia or what we call it. From the other side, Toonela's bees just fly and squirt our rubber boats or also stain boats with steel-passing bullets. Perhaps it would be more reasonable now, but you can see that since two ministers have already found a consensus, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Affairs, they are suffering to interrupt again. Perhaps we can make it through this procedure as well. But why did I really expect it? I wanted to quote the band P.W.A. One song. So here it comes: "The fish sings, the fish sings, the fish sings with the mouth, the bird does not sing, the bird does not sing with the water. The fish sings, the fish sings, the fish sings with his mouth, the bird doesn't sing, the bird doesn't sing under the water. Why are you killing fish? Why don't you kill the concussed birds, kill the fucking birds, leave the fish alone. " Ensemble P.W.A., I suggest you listen. I didn't understand the bill, but I'm in favour of an interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U194	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U195	Thank you, good manager. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U196	Yeah, please, eight minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U197	Three would be better. My personal opinion. Having looked at the situation of fishermen and the best practices at sea and also read this draft, I dare say it is a bad draft. And why? Point one, because we are increasing bureaucracy. In this area, in coastal fishing, where there are still very elderly men who go to sea and, on the other hand, there are young people, although there are fewer and fewer young people, because this is a very difficult area, the main problem is that fish as a resource is becoming less and less, and we are actually trying to protect the fish stock at every step of the way, or the restrictions at sea are coming in and in. If we now look at what is planned with these changes, then point one is that if today there is a need to fill out a fishing logbook while fishing in a boat and inform the inspection by telephone that I am coming ashore, the inspection can meet if necessary, then the new procedure means that it must be done at sea electronically. Honestly, I don't see it very well when you fish, you come with a fishing boat full of herring, how to fill the logbook electronically, whether you have a connection, what your hands are, what this tool is at the moment, whether the battery is full or empty for me, it actually raises a whole series of questions. The next point is that, whether in winter or summer, the ship or motor sled must have a GPS device on it. You have to be identifiable at every moment in the key to your location, and you have to share that location, too, I understand, with the inspection. Third, you must have an on-board camera. In fact, all this activity on a boat or in the vicinity must be recorded. It seems to me that this is like a potential crime area where everything has to be recorded and monitored at any moment. I really don't know if we should look at fisheries like this. I think I'd rather not. It certainly needs to be checked, but this way of sanctioning it to me seems unreasonable. As far as fishing is concerned and the linking to the individual quota is concerned, these reasons are very distant for me. They say there's more fresh fish to get. Dear Members of Parliament! Fish can be caught when the fish comes to the beach, it is possible to fish and then it must be caught. This is also what the whole fishing sector, the fishing industry, wants to catch fish of the highest quality possible, because when the water gets warm, the quality of the fish changes immediately. The other way around, that fish is swimming off that beach. If we set quotas for fishing gear, we will create an unequal situation for those who want to catch, who invest in fishing gear, boats, the necessary lats, I think very clearly. But for those of you who have the right to fish, this commodity just becomes legal. If I have a quota tied to a trap, I just have to dispose of it. I don't think that makes any sense. We should, above all, support those who want to try to promote a coastal fisheries culture, rather than create a purchasing system as a legal background. Once again, every field is looking for efficiency. The industry is also looking for efficiency. To talk so-called reverse... When there is herring fishing, tens of tonnes come to the beach during the days, they have received large-scale rackets, cooperatives have invested European Union subsidies in refrigeration equipment, though fast-frozen and everywhere else, these buildings have been completed, and now we say, oh-oh, that is bad, it is very bad that this fish is frozen. But what about the tens of tons? Do you really think that if it's 15 degrees out at one point, we'll go all the way around that boat, buy that fish and eat it at home? Well, that's not gonna happen. This fish goes to the industry, it's then frozen and introduced. Maybe we can really talk about the context or context of the place here, but it's clear, let's look at the site fishing, I'm not specifically talking about Peipsi, I'll give you this example of the Gulf of Pärnu, that the place is so little to talk about it as if this quota arrangement would somehow solve the need for fresh fish, so if this place isn't in the bay, it just isn't. When the traps are empty, the traps are generally taken out, for it is not the fisherman who, as opposed and defied, demands them every day, even though he sees that nothing will come. People don't do nothing. Rather, every trap costs, and if that trap is in the water, it must be dealt with every day, not so let it be there. I think this bill is relatively alien. He's inspired by some idea I don't understand. I hope that this interruption will help us to understand it better. Ultimately, over-bureaucratisation, in my opinion, is not right. On the other hand, it is precisely those fishermen who want to go to sea and fish that should be supported. If a country has a problem that we have too many fishing rights issued, and that is the case, then a solution must be found to how these fishing rights are to be collected, not to be dealt with by distributing the quota on fishing rights, and then to deal with the new problem of how these fishing rights are to be transferred, then ultimately, as owner, someone must take responsibility for how the user uses this fishing right and for creating additional instruments that must be done. But I didn't read much about the fine rates, for example. If this GPS device is mandatory, but I'm not putting it on, what does it involve? If it's a duty to put a camera on board, but I'm not gonna fill it, what happens then? Again, we are opening like a new Pandora box, for which it is possible to impose additional fines on the same fishermen, and someone is going to process it. I don't know, it seems unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U198	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair, please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U199	Thank you. I guess that's why I had to come back here to explain a little bit to Andres. The GPS device is also necessary for the fisherman, then it is traceable, it is noticeable where he is on the lake, and so it is easier to control this activity. To question the fact that the GPS device is some kind of, I don't know, special device, I don't understand it at all. I read this section: "A fishing vessel equipped with an engine and, if there is an ice sheet, a motor vehicle used for professional fishing on Lake Peipsi, Lamp and Pihkva must be equipped with GPS equipment (global positioning system equipment) through which information is sent using the GPRS system (General Packet Radio Service System). The recipient of the information is the Environmental Board. " I don't know who the problem is. I don't think it's gonna cause anyone any problems, that everything is better monitored, both for the people who fish and for control. Or is it someone who wants to organise fishing so that it is uncontrolled at all? Electronic notification. It's just to make it easier for a fisherman. If the fisherman now comes to the port with a cargo of fish and then begins to measure the quantity of fish, it is established on the basis of trust. The fisherman informs that he comes to the port with such a load, the inspector assesses it, is it real or is not, not every time the inspector checks it. It's like a trust system. It's an electronic system today. It's not modern if we have to measure it again with paper and kilos. I think it was the last century when this could have been done. After all, no one prohibits fishermen who have an annual quota from catching it in three weeks and putting [fish] in a freezer. No one's gonna say no to that. Andres, where did you read that it would be banned? Let him catch! But the goal is that they can catch when the fish has the right price, there is demand in the market, and people get fresh fish all year round, not so that in three months or three weeks they catch and put them in a freezer. The video surveillance system is exactly the same: "Fishing vessels shall have on board a imaging or recording tracking system. On the basis of the criteria laid down in European Union legislation or on the basis of a risk analysis carried out by the Environmental Agency, the list of vessels which are required to have a monitoring system to transmit or store the picture shall be established by regulation by the Minister responsible for the sector. " This is a European Union act. This is perfectly normal today in other countries of the European Union as well. There is also, of course, repeated infringement of fishing requirements and how it is sanctioned. It has been discussed with fishermen. Andres, I can also send you these proposals from the fishermen of Peipsi why they want to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U200	Thank you. Reception from Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U201	Thank you. I would just like to make it clear that, when we say that in other European countries it is also the case, yes, we can use it in the context of trawl ships. There is no such thing as coastal fishing, as we have here, in other European countries, basically simply does not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U202	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. One amendment has been received, Amendment 1 from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of draft 136. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year. The second reading is adjourned and the 12th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U203	Let us move to agenda item 13: Second reading of draft 570. Please ask Oudekki Loone, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of this draft for second reading was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on Tuesday 10 May. No amendments to the draft were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs received proposals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and jointly from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The latest proposals were presented to the Commission by Andres Sutt, who said that Estonia has a strategic direction, that we always have two eIDs issued by the state. It became clear from the end of last year that the call for tenders announced for the provision of a new mobile ID service provider failed. The National Information System Authority therefore discussed a targeted offer with SK ID Solutions, which is also the current service provider. The negotiations revealed some additional needs and functionality that needed clarification in the law. The amendments are as follows: First of all, a person can have multiple mobile IDs. Today, it's possible your cell-ID is only linked to one number. The amendment allows it to be linked to several numbers. The second proposal also concerns the provision of services to people aged 7 to 17 with the consent of a legal representative. As a third proposal, the service would not be subject to state fees, which is de facto also the current situation, since the current state fee paid by the provider for the identity of the person will go back to the same service provider for the activation of certificates. The fourth amendment is technological, which allows the use of e-SIMs, as it can be seen that only electronic SIM cards will function in the future instead of plastic SIM cards, and it would be good if our legal space already corresponded to this technological development. The latest change by MKM and the Ministry of the Interior allows for the possibility of applying for and activating mobile ID directly in the mobile operator's electronic environment, and today it can only be done with an ID card in the self-service environment of the Police and Border Guard Board. A debate followed. Mr Mölder felt that, in general, the amendments were good, but the situation in which the procurement failed was critical. He looked into the next steps to create a sense of security that the state was not dependent on private companies. Maybe an important thing like an electronic identity card could be owned by the state. Andres Sutt found that the competition is always better than the number of participants, but unfortunately there is only one eID provider today. At the same time, by the end of the year, the concept of digikuru will be put together, one part of which will also be the existence of e-ID capability in this case. If there are no bidders, the State can indeed resolve it itself. The chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, considered that the principle that the state is waiting until the last hour to see whether or not there will be a private operator is not really a good strategy. The state could still ensure that anyone comes from the market, and if they do not, it should be very clear that we will take it into our own hands. Mr. Sutt found that we hope to get the road map together by the end of the year and then move on. Paul Puustusmaa and Oudekki Loone studied why this choice, 7 to 17 years from which the limit of the seventh year of life came. Andres Sutt explained that basically, on the one hand, a 7-year-old is allowed to do certain jobs and, if he has a bank account, also to do bank operations, as well as to sign in to eKool, for example. For this purpose, Smart-IDs can be used at the moment, and it seemed logical that the same old person would have the same rights in the case of nationally issued mobile IDs. It's just such an approximation. Toomas Kivimägi found it a little unclear why so small children need this service and found that it is not known how much demand there is, the risk of security may increase, the state does not necessarily have to do everything according to Smart-ID, that it is not well-founded enough. Paul Puustusmaa studied that if there are several mobile IDs and if, for example, there are several e-SIMs, whether, for example, if we had an e-choice on a mobile phone, there could be technical problems, and similarly why there should be several mobile IDs. Toomas Kivimägi and Oudekki Loone also raised this issue. Andres Sutt explained that if there are several mobile IDs, they're just multiple documents, they're still referring to one person in the end, this person doesn't duplicate in any way. Even if cell phone dials are possible, identification still refers to the same person. Kristen Kanarik also commented on this, saying that we already have the possibility that there are several digital IDs. It's not very common, but it's inevitable in certain institutions: doctors, nurses, notaries. What's important is what this identification is before the document is delivered, that it's known to be a unique person, that it's signed by any document, but it's known to be that person. His second, third or fourth cell-ID, linked to some other, third or fourth number, still brings back that person. The debate continued on whether this bill would open the door for mobile elections. Andres Sutt confirmed that, no, this bill is not linked to the cell phone elections, it was simply a discussion that arose in the wider Commission, but this draft itself does not concern it at all. Kalle Grünthal felt, however, that Mr Andres Sutt had mentioned in the EKRE Group that this was one of the pillars of the mobile elections, and he felt that this could provide opportunities for manipulation. He asked why the explanations of government representatives were trusted that the card operation was linked to a certain person. For example, when you pay your pension, you have to show your face and your card in the screenshot why we accept this kind of trust in elections. Andres Sutt found that trust is not a matter of conscience, if no one trusts and doesn't want to give an e-voice, then he can always go to the polling station and usually vote. If the question is whether you can be sure that a mobile ID user is the person he claims to be, then the answer to the question is yes. Toomas Kivimägi stressed that if we ever reach an election with a cell phone that is not excluded, we still need completely different legislative amendments in this case, this bill does not open this box. Kalle Grünthal disagreed, said that this introduction of e-SIM actually opens up this box. Toomas Kivimägi commented that no, it is just a technological solution that replaces plastic SIM cards when these plastic SIM cards disappear, there is nothing to be done. The proposals of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented by Liina Martinson, were partly technical. The substantive amendment was to exclude from the mandate the obligation for the Minister responsible for the field to establish a form for the application for diplomatic passports by means of a regulation. It is not necessary to introduce a form in this Regulation and every time there is a technical change, it is necessary to amend the Regulation, to introduce new IT developments. In fact, the form in which this application is made is irrelevant to the processing of diplomatic passports, the data is irrelevant. Perhaps an important clarification of the wording is that the original draft said that if we issue a European Union return certificate and if a person goes back to the country of destination with it, he must transfer the document to the authority responsible at the border or in the country of destination. By doing so, we exceed our mandate. We cannot really say what citizens of other Member States of the European Union are doing in their own homes with their own documents. We can only introduce it for Estonia, and this amendment will only establish it for Estonia. The question from Mr Puustusmaa was that if a person receives a return certificate, he will be informed that he must come to Estonia and find the PBGB and return that it is actually enough that if, for example, we do not have these checks on the Schengen border, where he will find that person at all. Tiina Kallasmaa explained that, yes, maybe there is no border control, but a person receives a return certificate if he/she has lost his/her documents, that means he/she has to go and request new documents and later the relevant authority will ask him/her to return the document. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took full account of all four amendments, the first three consensually, the last four votes in favour, one against and one abstention. As procedural decisions, it was proposed to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 18 May 2022, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 1 June 2022. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U205	Thank you. You have a question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U206	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm a little surprised at how Minister Sut's opinion has changed. I have asked him here several times whether Estonia has the ability, say, to determine a person's age from a distance. I have done so on the basis of the specialist of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Triinu Täht, who has said that there is no capacity in Estonia to determine the age of a person from a distance. This is precisely why it is not possible to sell electronic cigarettes at a distance in Estonia. There's no such capacity. Now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that 7-year-olds could actually do this with SIM and could even do e-things. Didn't that round of coordination go through the Ministry of Social Affairs? The Ministry of Social Affairs has accurate information that there is no such ability to identify a person's age from a distance. Is this some kind of paradigm change, or is this the result of some kind of science-based research?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U207	Thank you. This paradigm shift was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U208	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? They want to open negotiations. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U209	Thank you, good Chairman! Thank you, good fellows, guardians of the Republic, guardians, safe! Now, I'm so embarrassed, or I'm so confused that the "A" itself is so big. If we still have people in the Ministry of Social Affairs saying that Estonia lacks the capacity to identify from a distance what age is, then I think that is because it has been spoken for many years and it is a specialist. It has become a general view that we cannot remotely identify a person's age. But now I see that we could [allow it] for the seven-year-olds so they can work. Work education is extremely important. But we still haven't solved how 15-year-olds can actually find a job in the summer. Perhaps at the age of 14 to 15, many of us went to this TPL, which was the legion of the laborers, and then to Estonia's student chess and later perhaps to the EEC, but then we were already adults. Maybe that's what this is about, and the incomprehensible belief that a job makes you happy or that you do a job, then love comes along. Usually, he who works doesn't have time for love. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. It's so weird. We are told in the same way that we cannot identify a person, his age. However, somewhere, it is actually found that a person has, like, two SIMs. It reminds me of that last point when we were talking about the Olympics. In the case of the Olympic Games, it has actually been said that the athlete himself will announce his sex before the launch. I don't know, our athletes are at least honest, they don't put all kinds of drugs in themselves. After all, we had Lurich the right guy. What came later turned out to be a friend of the coach who screwed everything up. We wrote big signs that we believe the coach didn't know and the athlete didn't know, but the coach's friend was, you know, jumped out with some plastic bags. As a rule, we are extremely honest. [[Laughing.]] But how has it suddenly changed that it can identify? No, I may be a little disappointed. I always imagined there would be such in-depth discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But does that mean, for example, that if at some point we had binary names, or Ants Anton, and then had the surname Fork Treeback, would it be possible to take these SIM cards [for man] Ants Treeback, Ants Fork, or Anton Treeback? Several of these SIM card companies are available. In fact, this is a good way to get [voices] in the elections. If you still have a multi-child family and it's just that it's gotten complicated, and so that the midwives and inmates don't get it in time, that when it's birthday again, it's like it's not Madis Mihkl's birthday, it's still Mihkel Miguelangelo or Mihkel Michael's birthday. And that's how we mislead these relatives and acquaintances, because why they come, they bring a five-euro Apollo gift card, but they eat for 20 euros. That's where the money goes for the kids' birthday parties, you know. When the baby was up to three years old ♪ oh, boy, no one wants to remember those birthdays. The child was the one who woke up, so it was time to feed. No, but if such a paradigm shift has occurred that we are beginning to trust technology to some extent, then perhaps this message will also reach the Ministry of Social Affairs and perhaps we will get there one moment that the Estonian state will review its decision to ban domestic distance selling. We're the world's cyber defence center, we're cyber security specialists, but we don't trust national teleshopping. Just because the Ministry of Social Affairs has certain data that distance is not possible to determine a person's age. I welcome Minister Sutti if you can go to the Ministry of Social Affairs with this message and make it clear, but I'll tell you what, you're going to be in second place with that opinion, either way, but you're still at least in the first six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U210	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Four have been received by the commission: the first, the second, the third, the fourth. With this, we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 13th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U211	Let us move to agenda item 14 - second reading of draft 575. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marek Jürgenson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a bill for the insolvency of a natural person, i.e. a draft of 575 on 4 April of this year. The first reading of the draft act took place on 20 April and the deadline for amendments was 4 May. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu on the draft. Written opinions and proposals were submitted by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Banking Association, the Business Law Committee of the Estonian Bar Association and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. All addresses relating to the bill are public and can be found on the Riigikogu's website on the 575 map of the bill in the section of opinions. The Committee on Legal Affairs, as the draft is comprehensive and voluminous, prepared a second reading in two sessions. First of all, we convened the authors of the opinion on 10 May this year. At the time, Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Kristiina Padu, adviser to the same department, were representatives of the Banking Association, the Bar Association Committee on Business Law, as I mentioned earlier, from the Chamber of bailiffs and bankrat administrators, as well as from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We reviewed all these opinions and assessed them also by the Ministry of Justice. At the next meeting of the Commission on 16 May, amendments were launched on the subject of the debate. There were five of them. They were technical in nature, in fact the majority was already due to the opinion of the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators and to cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. So they were of a technical nature. Let's just say that all the decisions we made in the Commission were consensual. There was not much debate among the Members of the Commission before the second reading. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 18 May and to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, that the draft be referred to a third reading on 1 June this year and that the final vote on the draft be carried out. I would like to mention in the report that the date of entry into force of this draft should be 1 July this year. All procedural decisions were taken by the members of the Commission in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U213	Thank you very much. There's a question for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U214	Thank you, good Chairman! Good chairman of the committee! There was a small shortage of truth. I asked many times the question of how many people we have, the physical persons, are going bankrupt. The subject is so-called acute. If we have to adopt a weapons law or some other law directly related to national security, we are talking about the possibility that very many people will be insolvent and go bankrupt. However, just as I received a reply from the chairman of the committee and not from the representatives of the ministry, it is still intended that, for the entire period of the proceedings, the insolvency practitioners will be paid for the work they have done, they will not wait for that end. My question is this: is this title not a little misleading and could it be dealt with under another law? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U215	Thank you. This title is not, in my view, absolutely misleading, because the law of bankruptcy remains separate in this respect. This draft insolvency law is in this sense, I think, a pretty good title. I wouldn't be teasing about this title at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U216	Good waitress, there's one more question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U217	Yes, I am simply recalling those times when the Commission was led by Jaanus Karilai and it was a cluster company. Then this amendment was made that, in the event of difficulties for businesses, they would not have to declare themselves bankrupt under the law, because it was the law. Now, in this important period of time, have the opportunities of people who may be in default increased, or have they been reduced due to previous changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U218	Rather, this bill reduces, in the sense that it also deals very well with the system of trustees, which had been discussed before. I would follow this bill and what we talked about and talked about just before the second reading. It has been very well explained all this system of advice and support for the debtor, so that he may not still go bankrupt, helping to reform all this. So, yes, that's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U219	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Thank you. Let us examine the amendments. They've been received in five, all from the lead commission. One, two, three, four and five. We've been through them. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 14th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U220	Let us go to agenda item 15: First reading of Bill 571. Please contact the Riigikogu Chair Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aasa. Draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act and the Maritime Safety Act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U221	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act and the Maritime Safety Act will create a legal basis for the introduction of the ship information system, which will contribute to the competitiveness of Estonian shipping. The Transport Board has developed a new information system aimed at modernising the inspection and certification of Estonian ships, which has so far been largely paper-based, and to consolidate registers containing ship data. The draft establishes the legal basis for the deployment of the ship information system. This will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Estonian maritime industry, as it offers better and more convenient services to customers through a single web-based e-channel. It also allows ship owners and their representatives, on the one hand, to make requests for registration or survey of their vessels through the information system and to obtain an overview of their ships and certificates in force. At the same time, it is a tool for the Transport Board's supervising officers, who thus develop a modern procedural environment that enhances the quality of work, accelerates processes and automates the operations carried out during the survey. The information system is capable of issuing electronically certificates that are pre-set and already contain data relating to a particular ship and survey. I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U222	Thank you, good waitress, for a thorough presentation. It seems, however, that there are two questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U223	Thank you, good chief! Good waitress! I still have the same thing as how it could, to some extent, be brought to Estonia to keep and maintain STCW training and training certificates. I've been saying that for a year and a half. If the Fatherland makes such an amendment, it simply does not find support because it is in favour of the opposition. At the same time, I'll see that the coalition doesn't fire that lamp in any way, even by wiping it, it doesn't get any lighter, it doesn't come out of Aladdin or the gin or whatever. How can we approach? I'm afraid, I'm not afraid, I'm just afraid that maybe another sea state is a little more agile than Estonia. How can we cooperate, the opposition and the coalition, in order to achieve this good goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U224	Thank you. The easiest way to work together is to do this together with the sector. The Government of the Republic has done so, there have been many times to involve the sector in order to resolve this issue. Unfortunately, there is still no full consensus in the sector, which does not mean that this consensus cannot be achieved in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U225	Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U226	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The news of the last few days is that it is as if the Ministry of the Environment wants the whole maritime sector and shipping-related things for itself, in its administration. It has also been possible to read an exciting discussion about this. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what thoughts this position of the Minister for the Environment gave you. Could this work out so that it eventually moves to one side or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U227	Thank you. It's always good to have new and interesting ideas. What can anyone possibly object to that? But I think the maritime sector remains under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It is certainly important that all other ministries also fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U228	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U229	Thank you, good chief! Good waitress! It's not like we're gonna know what this sector is like. Trade unions may not be happy with many things. But if, for example, our good companion Oudekki listens to how much money can be brought to Estonia, but trade unions simply disagree with this, then we can get this done. He also says, "Hey, leave it, there's no trainer or anything, you just want to go back here to the old soccer states for a couple of bucks." Would you encourage the opposition as well, I see that the coalition is not moving at this point, so that the Fatherland will still come out with this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U230	Thank you. Every member of the Riigikogu and every political group is certainly free to make proposals under the law. When proposals are made, they will be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U231	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U232	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good minister! Let me ask you a question from a different angle. I know that the Ministry of the Environment was magnanimously prepared at one point to surrender its responsibility to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to manage these anchorages. Would the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications be willing to take these anchor areas under their wing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U233	Thank you. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is certainly prepared to take a lot of things under its wing, and we certainly are not against it. But every ministry, as I said before, has its functions. As far as environmental functions are concerned, it is the task of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U234	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Please present Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, it was a pretty thorough report here, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U235	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft twice, first on 11 April and second on 19 April. Minister Aas presented the draft, the same draft that was just introduced in this Chamber, and the Commission did not have any further questions in this regard. The Commission adopted procedural decisions. First of all, on April 11th, the lead manager was appointed here as the speaker. Two procedural decisions were adopted on 19 April: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, and secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed. The decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U236	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions for you. Thank you very much. I open negotiations and ask the representative of the Isamaa Group of the Riigikogu to speak at Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U237	Oh, yeah! Thank you, good Chairman. Now, like the whole faction...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U238	Yes, it is. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U239	Yeah. It's just that it's been said here for a year and a half, and I'd like to mark it again. Let's just take it easy. The project "Drawing under the flag of Estonia" is, of course, great, but I think the picture should be viewed more widely, as the maritime sector is slightly wider than the flag flying in the stern of the ship. Money in the economy doesn't just come from tonnage fees. We believe that this slogan needs to be filled in as much as possible. In practice, certification of seafarers' training is also an important part of the blue economy, and more so. This issue is governed by one of the four pillars of the maritime economy, the STCW Convention alongside the SOLAS, MARPOL and MLC conventions. The subject I want to address more clearly is the so-called White Paper. Background: There are some 150,000 sailors in Ukraine, one third of whom are ship officers holding a STCW-editment diploma, Certificate of Competence, certificate of competence. For Ukrainian national statistics and tax systems, they do not usually exist simply because they work as freelancers. Thus, the Ukrainian state apparatus has shown little interest in creating opportunities for these people. Rather, they bring the maritime issue together, so to speak. However, seafarers need to regularly renew their diplomas in accordance with STCW in order to get a job. This is where Estonia would have the opportunity if Estonia were to offer Ukrainian seafarers these trainings and deposit training certificates in Estonia. When we started, there was also the idea in this explanatory memorandum that Russia no longer seemed reliable to them; today it is not exactly the same. This could be an opportunity for Estonia. Let's take more into account how much money could come. The Transport Board is currently exchanging diplomas awarded by Estonian residents and citizens in third countries, including Ukraine and Russia, and EU countries for Estonian diplomas. This is an option explicitly provided for in Estonian law. This will require a number of courses with a total cost of EUR 2 500-3000 and will take between two and three weeks. At the salaries of seafarers, officers of ships, which is EUR 5000 to EUR 15000, this amount is rather modest. In addition, exams must be taken at the Transport Board. Estonia has the opportunity to give Ukrainian seafarers the opportunity to exchange STCW diplomas issued in Ukraine and Russia for Estonian diplomas. It's simple in itself. One way is to change the wording of "Training and qualification requirements for members of the ship's family and the procedure for certification" § 32 "Subjects, issue and duplicate of a certificate of competency and certificate of competency" as follows, so that we simply add one word to it. The second paragraph of this section would then be that the Transport Board issues a certificate of competency or a certificate of competency to an Estonian citizen or to an alien holding an Estonian residence permit or right of residence, and the word "e-residency" comes between it. With this one word we could then bring an estimated one third of Ukrainian seafarers and these officers to Estonia. Let's figure out what the cost is. The public expenditure in itself is zero, because they actually bring money into the state. The revenue could, however, be approximately EUR 30 million. A bold start would be needed here, and I think that trade unions will not fight it for a very long time if they realise that it will bring money to Estonia. I do not think that the Estonian trainer would find that if we were to allow the training of Ukrainian seafarers to be properly conducted and their training certificates stored here, it would take some bread away from Estonian seafarers. I'd rather not be brave. What, though, about my shyness that another sea state can take that step? They'll be here at some point. If I make, say, this proposal by the opposition, it will be seen that it is not a good [proposal] because it is the opposition [proposal]. That's why I'm trying to put it on the coalition. But still, let's take it, it's lying on the ground! Let's do it! They'll do it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U240	Please! No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 571. I don't see any other suggestions. I therefore set the deadline of 2 June for the submission of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 June, not 1 June, I would like to draw attention. June 2, 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U241	The 16th item of the agenda is unnoticed: Draft Act amending the Prisoning Act and the Criminal Care Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 580. Good morning, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U242	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Okay. I would like to introduce you to the Act amending the Prisoning Act and the Penal Care Act, in which the amendments to be made can in principle be divided into two parts: firstly, the amendments relating to consolidation of support services, and secondly, the provisions relating to the right to employment. First of all, a brief consolidation. We know we have three prisons, but three prisons have a number of services, support services, all of which are provided, but which can be arranged jointly. This is done this year, but there are some legal failures. This system could be made even more convenient, for example in legal matters [the prison] could be represented by the legal service and no longer by the prison directors. It's such a practical solution. Other changes concern the right to employment. I would remind you that the Riigikogu adopted some time ago legislative amendments concerning the harmonisation of special services, but there was no part of the prison service in it, but the prison service also falls within the so-called area of internal security, where workers move very easily between different institutions, and it is therefore important that these regulations are similar. This is the case with the amendments proposed in this draft law, which are subject to certain harmonisation. In many places, the differences that have previously been in prison service are abolished and are generally taken to be similar to ATS, or more specifically to those concerning the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board. Perhaps another amendment concerning the amendments to the probation law. The appointment of a probation officer shall be subject to a probationary period of not more than six months. At the moment, it is imperative to say that it must be six months, but, as you understand, it is reasonable to leave flexibility that if there is a very good person, his probationary period could be shorter. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U243	The members of the Riigikogu, however, also have one question. Mr. Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On the side of Viru's prison, there was such a concern that, according to the budget explanatory memorandum, it is not like it would be reasonable or appropriate to consolidate services across prisons. If we look at it, it's kind of been taken into account, but maybe you could open up a little bit more of what the reason is here or whether it was analyzed at all. Why don't we take this up a little bit more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U245	Thank you. The consolidation of prisons was analysed last year and assessed which services it makes sense to put together and which ones do not exist. Not all services are assembled, but only part. For example, personnel accounting, procurement and other such things. Consolidation does not mean that people are moved to one place. They will continue to work where it is more appropriate. Generally, in its former so-called location, either in Tallinn, Tartu or Jõhvi, this is from the point of view of rationality. For example, there was a need for every institution to have a data protection specialist whose workload, I now do not dare to say exactly, would perhaps have been half, or even less, a place. Now there is one person who carries out these tasks and covers all three prisons, for example. It's a setup. It was also precisely considered that consolidation would not result in more complex, costly and rational things being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U246	Mr. Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I have a good chance to ask you now that you're here. The additional budget that we have just adopted also has EUR 5.1 million for prison equipment, armaments and continuity. I'd like to ask you exactly what it contains.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U248	Thank you. Prisons are known to be one of the guarantors of internal security, occasionally providing support to the police department and certainly in other cases, in situations where incidents may occur in prisons for the corresponding unit. It is important that the prison service is sufficiently capable and well equipped. I'm sure there are some other aspects I wouldn't say publicly in this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U249	No further questions. Thank you! On behalf of the Commission, Sulev Kannimäe will tell us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U250	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Tuesday, 10 May. The draft law was introduced by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Laura Glaase, Adviser to the Prisons Department of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited. A few questions were also asked, which were answered by Maris Lauri as Minister of Justice and Laura Glaas. There was no wide consultation in the Commission and the Commission took procedural decisions. The decision was made that the bill to put the Riigikogu on the agenda for the sitting on 17 May 2022 now, of course, is already 18 May, which was adopted by consensus. It was decided to propose the termination of the first reading; this proposal was consensual; to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 27 May 2022; to consensually do so; to appoint Anastassia Kovalenko-Külvart as the representative of the lead committee; this decision had also been taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U251	There's no questions. Thank you! As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading, but we have the opportunity to open negotiations before that. Would anyone like a word? No, I don't. Then the first reading has been completed and I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 27 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U252	The 17th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Register Act, the Penal Code and the Child Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! So, the draft law amending the Penal Register Act, the Penal Code and the Child Protection Act. Today, the Riigikogu passed a law on the age line, and this bill also deals with the subject to which the law adopted is concerned. The aim is to improve the control of persons who are subject to a restriction on working with the child. Some offences are known to be prohibited from working with children on a permanent or temporary basis. In practice, there have been a number of problems which are now being resolved by this draft. If the Child Protection Act provides that persons working with children must be checked to check whether they are allowed to work with children at all, but it is not clear at the moment how often this should be done, the draft stipulates that regular annual checks must be carried out, in addition to taking a job or, in certain cases, checking that a person is authorised, because it is very possible that a person has been punished in the meantime. If this check is not carried out, the offender will be punished by misdemeanour. The fine shall be increased by legal persons from EUR 3500 to EUR 32000. Changes to the draft act also allow for free control by legal representatives of children, such as parents or carers, when they start hiring a babysitter. Information on the admissibility of work with children will be published in a simple and understandable manner by means of the "Authorised" or "Authorised." This means that the examiner loses the need to assess what is behind one or the other, as is currently the case. The IT solution, which allows for verification, is ready and therefore, once the draft is adopted, this background check can be implemented immediately. It also updates the permanent and temporary prohibition on working with children, as well as the list of offences for which the names of the persons who have been punished are not replaced by initials or characters in the case-law, i.e. it is clear who has done these acts. A small but important change, however, is that it allows dangerous criminals who have been given behavioural control to determine this even if such a person does not have a normal place of residence. This is then done by means of the place of stay. It could be a place to stay with someone you know, a social accommodation or something like that. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U254	Heiki Hepner wants to be more specific. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation, as well as the Sports Training and Information Foundation, has requested or proposed to supplement the Penal Code with subsection 20 (1): "Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation to carry out background checks on coaches and sports staff working with children. " This has not been taken into account. In itself, we know that doping is a problem, it is not lost anywhere. It does say why it has not actually been taken into account. But do we have a viable solution? I understand that their wish now would have been another possibility. Please open the subject for a little while, why wasn't it taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U256	Thank you. The reason is that this bill deals with the issue of people working with children, not with other criminal records.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U257	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U258	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I heard you were talking about the IT solution. Is the IT solution going to be another million now? I think it's over-exploited, because the people we suspect and who are already caught are quite a small part. Checking this would be much easier in the Ministry of Justice than doing an IT solution, you might want to ask for it. Why am I worried about that? When we complete the IT solution, it turns out that another million will be asked to be compatible with the existing systems. Does it also include such a clause that, if this IT solution is to be made, it must be compatible with the systems already in place so that we can once have this perfect judicial jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U259	Thank you. In fact, the solution is already ready. He paid... I don't have the guts to say it now. It's in thousands. The solution is simple: it is just a person who makes an inquiry, identifies himself, defines why he wants to look at it, enters the personal identification code of the person he wants the data for, and the answer to the request is whether or not it is allowed. That's how it works. There is already, so there will be no extra costs. Done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U260	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U261	Dear Minister, This proposal, which has been made and has not been taken into account, has to do with children. I read here one more time: "Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation for background checks for coaches and other sports staff working with children. " This has not been taken into account in this sense. I would ask you to open up the reason why this has not been taken into account. Sometimes it may be that this a) is not a problem, b) this risk is solved in a different way. Maybe there's another third solution to c. My question was directed at that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U262	Thank you. I owe you an answer, but let me give you a more precise answer as to what these nuances were, which is why this proposal could not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U263	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U264	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! One possible danger that also puts young people [at risk] is that coaches who choose the wrong training plan, maybe the wrong load and do not take into account, say, the possible diet. In football, for example, it is quite often the case that 17-year-old boys are already disabled because of the burden that has been placed on them, and have not been taken into account, let's say, the diet of young people. Will coaches who have compromised the health of young athletes through unreasoned training schemes be included in the list that is already known and fixed, or should it come out in the form of amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U265	Thank you. The draft does not deal with this issue at all, it has no bearing on it, and the quality issues of coaches have nothing to do with this draft. It is still a sport that is known to fall under the Ministry of Culture, and when it comes to, say, school establishments, it is also the Ministry of Education. People who work with children have to be undoubtedly professional, but the Ministry of Justice really does not deal with the assessment or definition of their professionalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U266	No further questions. Thank you! By the Committee on Legal Affairs, please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U267	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for first reading on 10 May this year. The Minister has already introduced the draft in detail and I think that the questioners have also received exhaustive answers. I will move on to the issues that arose in the Commission. Heljo Pikhof asked whether the persons subject to restrictions on working with the child had been penalised in advance and what the offences were where the right to work with children could be restored after a certain period of time. Maris Lauri replied that this would depend on the criminal prosecution, according to which the restriction would be permanent or temporary. Temporary [limited] offences include, for example, fights, robberies, extortion, abuse of power, etc. The question also arose about the kindergarten teacher and the schoolteacher, if there is any doubt, whether it is possible to check the background. The Minister replied that the change would create an obligation to check, and not only when the person takes up work, but also when the person has been working even for a long time, every year checks are mandatory. Urve Tiidus asked whether the background of all people dealing with children was checked once a year. Minister Maris Lauri replied that the draft law required this to be done once a year, as it might happen that a penalty had been imposed in the meantime. He also noted that such cases had occurred in the past. My colleague, Anti Poolamets, asked how more specifically the checks are technically carried out, whether the criminal record will automatically release the information. The minister replied that a new technical solution had been made, where queries were made automatically and a reply was displayed, whether or not to be allowed. He added that if the Riigikogu was able to process the draft quickly, it could also enter into force quickly. Heljo Pikhof examined whether the penalties already deleted were visible. Anne Kruusement replied that they were also visible. Decisions were also taken at the Commission meeting: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 May, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 a.m. on 27 May this year and to appoint Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the lead committee. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U268	There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have completed the first reading of the draft 581 and will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 27 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U269	The 18th item is the draft law amending the Law on Law Enforcement, Child Protection, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 573. Please, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Okay. This draft amends three laws: the Law on Law Enforcement, the Child Protection Act and the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. The purpose of this draft is to enable the establishment of a single prevention board, which takes over the organisation and tasks of the Council for the Prevention of Crime and Child Protection. It is logical that in Estonia we would not fragment our human and financial resources, including time resources, between very different committees, especially when these committees have quite a significant joint role in both objectives and activities. Therefore, in April last year, ministers curing cross-sectoral prevention, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Social Protection and the Minister for the Interior, found that the Joint Prevention Council would be able to improve prevention-oriented activities, regardless of what was specifically sought to prevent. The fact is that these different sectoral prevention activities contain a very large common component. Let's look at activities aimed at children. In order to prevent children from using addictive substances or entering a bad path, it is important that they have different types of activities, whether in the field of culture or in the field of sport, for example, they can do something at school. There are a great many areas, which may also allow them to be involved in various communication activities by the Rescue Board or the police. It is certainly important that social workers are involved, because when problems arise, they intervene in a timely manner and see how they react. That is why it is the idea that, instead of the [two] councils we currently have, the child protection council and the anti-crime council, there is also a government committee on drug prevention, so that one can be formed instead of the three. It's administratively more economical. These are mainly technical changes in order to enable this organisation to function. We have also initially agreed with the ministers on how this could work and work. The draft regulations in the draft act give a pretty good overview of this. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U271	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U272	Thank you! I will take this opportunity to ask two questions, although I know that it will be very difficult to understand. The first question is: what exactly would the new organisation do? It's pretty broad-based. Will he replace, to some extent, a commission of minors that has been put to death? Will they also liberalise any policies to avoid harming young people's [life] youth because of their stupidity? The other part of the question is what I always remember with a good colleague from the previous composition of March Sults. It says psychotropic substances and their precursors. March Sults was a chemist and he said that one of the ingredients in all drugs is water. Is it also in the bill that water-related activities and things are, to some extent, immediately a priori bad from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U273	Thank you. I'll start at the back. This law, i.e. the law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors, is being amended to a very limited extent, simply in the sense that it only concerns the coordination of this preventive council, other issues that the draft does not deal with, that is the administrative aspect. The question of what this Council will be dealing with. These committees and councils, which have had different sub-committees and circles or working groups, will work under this new preventive council. As they have overlaps, it can be assumed that work will become more meaningful, sharing resources and planning activities more precise and less fragmented, so that it does not happen that one preventive board has decided to organise something and another committee has decided to do something, but in fact, these are two things that could be done, instead of one and perhaps a little bigger and then more effectively, than sharing these two events or activities in a sensible timeline. In these councils, ministers, those I listed, are represented in different ways, and there are several officials, representatives of very many organisations. There will be sub-groups that deal with more specific issues. With one roof under one roof, coordination is expected to be faster, more comfortable. We hope for more effective results in the sense that these activities will also be more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U274	No further questions. Thank you! By the Committee on Legal Affairs, please, Anti Half-Amets!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U275	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good manager! I will introduce this draft to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which took place on 10 May. The members of the committee were Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. As guests, Einar Hillep, Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice's Criminal Policy Department, and Anu Leps, Adviser to the Analysis Service of the Criminal Policy Department, Ain Peil, Adviser to the Ministry of Interior's Law and Criminal Policy Department, and Joanna Karu, Child Advisor to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Maris Lauri explained that the purpose of the draft is to combine the child protection council, the criminal prevention council and the government committee on drug prevention, on the grounds that the issues are closely aligned. When it comes to how to prevent crime of a different nature, the causes of crime are often the same and therefore there is also a large shared role in prevention. In addition to the Minister for Justice, the Board of Directors includes the Minister for Education, Science, Culture, Social Protection, Internal Affairs, Health and Labour, and has listed 17 organisations as members of the Board that could be members of the Board. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, Einar Hillep, added that the law does not have a specific date of entry into force, and that the entry into force would be in general order. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 May, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 27 May, all of these decisions were by consensus, and that the representative of the lead committee be appointed by the Anti Half Office. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U276	Mr. Kruusimägi has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U277	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have a procedural question. If I wanted to make a speech, not from the speaker, but from the point of view, two minutes, should I press the word?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U278	You've been in the Riigikogu for some time. You might want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U279	I don't want to ask Anti, I just want a word. But why I say this is precisely because we in the group did not agree that I should have a five-minute speech on the board. I do, however, feel that I would like to say a short reply, having personally been involved in youth work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U280	Mr. Semimets, there are no questions for you. I'll solve the procedural problems with Mr. Kruss Mountain. Mr. Kruusimäe! I don't see anyone else in the Isamaa Group here anymore than you and Mr. Hepner. So try to agree among yourselves which will speak on behalf of the group. He who speaks on behalf of the group can choose whether he will come to the remote control or whether he will give a speech on behalf of the group, which means that he must be registered by pressing the "Word" button. That's right, it wasn't that complicated. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Kruusimäe, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U281	Thank you! Looking at the experience of several countries and at this prevention, it is quite simple: young people need to be given the opportunity to deal with things they like. Does it also require a Commission or something like that? My experience with the juvenile committee was that young people had already arrived there and [there was a question] how to return them. I think that if we look at young people's music, even today, or how they make rock ensembles, it does not fit in with interest or interest, but if Estonian artists go to Eurovision, we will live with them all. We find these tools, we offer the young people this noise and rumble, let them make a better band than they inject themselves with poppy in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U282	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have completed the first reading of the draft 573 and will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 27 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U283	Let us move to agenda item 19: Draft Act on Amendment of the Weapons Act, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 557. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U284	I am pleased to continue with the Committee on Legal Affairs. As you can see, the Commission has been very productive: long meetings, many drafts, some of them quite meaningful. Among them, I think, is the change in the composition and structure of the crime prevention council mentioned in the previous report. But now the EKRE submitted to the draft amendment of the arms law [the law]. To begin with, the draft amendment to the Weapons Act was first submitted by the Estonian Conservative People's Party and Isamaa. They differed significantly, but the concern was the same: to limit the possession of weapons by Russian citizens and non-citizens, due to the military activities that began on 24 February, actually starting in 2014. On this point, the Government's draft, which is obviously driven by the two drafts, has now come up freshly. The government's draft differs from our draft in that there is one point left of it, which must be regarded as equally important, namely the passing of the weapons examination in Estonian. The government's bill has also been supplemented by a limited number of crimes that go not into the archives, but may also be restricted by the possession of a weapons permit after the sentence has passed out. Such progress has been made as a result of the procedure on these two drafts, that the government has partly dealt with the issue. But, of course, one must admit that only partially, because the situation is serious enough and could be based on the draft EKRE. I hope it's not actually written off yet. So what was the most important part of our bill? Namely, the aim was to amend the current regulation, according to which foreign citizens may also possess weapons in Estonia, provided that there is no doubt that they could endanger the security or security of the Republic of Estonia. Our proposed amendment provides that only foreigners who are citizens of the European Union or of a NATO Member State who have a residence permit for Estonia or who reside on the basis of their right of residence in Estonia may acquire, own and possess a weapon listed in subsection 29 (1) of the Weapons Act. According to the public figures for 2020, nearly 1300 citizens of the Russian Federation and persons of undefined citizenship live in Estonia. They have the right to hold weapons permits and firearms, including 375 sports shooters who have the right to have large quantities of bullets. It can be seen that some of them are also with Russian imperialist views. Social media accounts are posing with Russian insignia. Cases have also been documented when a group of shooters holding an Estonian weapons permit rose up and sang the Russian anthem together. Russian shooting clubs also had close cooperation with Russian athletes and instructors. It is clear that Russian citizens with an Estonian weapons permit may be exploited by Russian security authorities, and certainly they have. Life will show you when these cases come out. In our opinion, it is not possible to really examine the background of 1,300 people. This is confirmed, in fact, by what the Minister of the Interior said in the Commission, that they, according to the Minister, have done a good job, carried out several screenings of weapons permits, an assessment of persons. The result was that one person had been removed from the weapons permit and the couple had a procedure for withdrawal. Well, I don't believe our X-ray guys are capable of seeing 1,300 Russian citizens and non-citizens. I don't think so. I don't think so! Even after the effort, it may not work out. Let us recall Mr. Simmi's life and activities. Let's remind you of those wonderful pictures where Simm was given medals for merit in the formal rooms of the Ministry of Defence, and his activities were described here too. If ever Interrinne tried to break into this building, Simm was supposed to be a tough hero, although several sources wouldn't confirm it. It is possible that he tried to open the door to the invaders, but you see, our institutions did not know, and he was considered a kind of hero who once defended the Riigikogu building. What hasn't our organs known yet? A lot of things have not been known, because traitors have been found in a defense police facility of their own, the most secure facility. Even in very strong organisations in our neighbouring Finland, things have not been good at all. Just before coming to the remote control, I read about Suomen Sotilas, which had a long article, a book that discussed in depth whether or not the head of the Finnish Defence Police was a Russian agent. Another former head of the security police was also discussed whether he was a Soviet agent or not. Impressive debate, isn't it? So what are we talking about, then, about people of Russian nationality we can't see inside? That is why it makes perfect sense that we are not going to bother ourselves and spend resources on the supervision of 1,300 people. It's extremely risky when I hear one person was discovered. One person! The Security Minister we have, I'm sorry, it's not convincing! The most skilled guys don't pose in Donbass forms on a social media account. These are more of the men who have taken 200 grams in the evening and put out a picture like this. The reality is much more complicated. A particularly good image is created for them, an image of an Estonian citizen, but they may be the most dangerous, they have the largest amount of bullets and they do not brag on the social media account or among friends. They're not distilleries, but they have guns, they have guns, they have bullets, they're official. Somewhere, maybe there's an unofficial warehouse with ten more guns and bullets. We don't need to risk it, we don't need to risk it. Comrade Simm's example is very convincing. Some people who are not in this room now, but who are here again tomorrow, have once spoken to Simmi, have given him permission to move to the next post. They were not gifted with psychic powers. I also don't think we should work hard to find new psychics. Our Home Secretary is not a psychic. Let's make our lives easier. A weapons permit is not a privilege for stateless persons; it is a privilege for citizens. Of course, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia can also be discredited. But let's make our lives easier. There is no need to distribute weapons to non-citizens. They understand that, I am deeply convinced of that. They also understand those Russians who have worked for Estonian citizenship, who have learned the language, who have passed the exam and are proud to carry a weapon in the Republic of Estonia. They'll find out why they had to work hard when the others walk in and get that gun license for nothing. Just like a language exam. Why did they have to exert themselves, and why can others simply do so? So the problem is very serious. I am deeply convinced that the risks are high. Let me give you just one example. I just heard a story that I'm not going to open all the details, but the source was convincing. In Estonia, separatists on the Ukrainian search list, very dangerous people, moved around and tried to commit certain acts here too. We don't have a border, we don't have a southern border. Walk through wherever you want. I don't have precise information on the channels they used to get here, but here they are, here they are. Maybe they're communicating with some nice Russian citizen with 5,000 rounds and lots of nice guns because he's a shooter. We need to minimise these risks. We have a duty to do so. We have a duty to do this! Let us look at the example of Ukraine: how many diversion groups there were. It is said that the resources of the diversion groups are also exhausted, they cannot be endless. But we have no obligation to create these risks in any way. Every diversion group that is created by individuals already operating here is an extremely dangerous burden on us. But every couple of 20 people we're reducing our risk factors are reducing our security risk. Perhaps we can still learn from the experience of this great war, learn from these examples. A few more examples that I recall from reading Ukrainian sources. One was very warm: it was said that my mother exposed the Russian diversion group. It was about that the construction men appeared in a town in the region of Herson and began to move, but the mother of a girl looked at them and watched them, wondering why they did not work during the day. Stranger faces in the apartment building. Started looking into it, asked them what you were doing here. The men ran, left, and the situation was clear. Then he contacted the police, the police, who finally disarmed the diversion group. There were many who had arrived under the sign of the construction workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U285	Mr. Semimets, we have a 557 SE on the table right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U286	Yeah, but I think these examples are very important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U287	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U288	Is it time yet? 6.13 is...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U289	Yeah, yeah. I'm just asking how you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U290	No, don't fall asleep.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U291	No, don't worry about me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U292	Hold the front. Hold the front!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U293	The front's strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U294	We're talking about vital cases. We are talking about vital cases, and they are very important for our Minister of the Interior to wake up. Our Home Secretary should wake up, too. I see that there is a former Minister of the Interior sitting behind me, and that is why I am also knocking on his heart certificate: take this issue seriously. Hence, these vital examples. I don't think it's possible to sleep anymore. As Leo Kunnas says, there won't be any alarm bells for us. So my firm conviction is that we will improve our security and make our situation more secure. Questions, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U295	Thank you for this brief review. There are no questions. Yes, by the Commission, Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Good guys in the hall! We discussed this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 May. At the time, only Tarmo Kruusimäe was absent from the ordinary committee and was replaced by Priit Sibul. We dealt with the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 557 and immediately thereafter the draft law of the Fatherland. This debate was very broad in this respect, since a dignified group had been invited. There were Mr Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior, Veiko Kommusaar, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as Henry Timberg, Head of the Criminal Policy Department and Rita Proosa from the PBA. I said that we had this debate on a very broad basis and that various parties had already been invited to sign both the Committee on Legal Affairs and this House. The representatives of the Estonian Arms Owners' Association, the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Board of Eru Officers, were present, then a member of the Board of the Estonian Practical Shooting Association of MTÜ. It was a very dignified company. For so long, we did not have the Anti Half Office in the Commission, although yes, the subject is well known to everyone. Just pointing out some facts that we discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. There are approximately 26000 gun owners in Estonia and the number 1300 has been visited, who are non-citizens: the citizens of the Russian Federation with a residence permit are citizens and there are just as many non-citizens with a grey passport. In the Commission, I myself confirmed that Veiko Kombusaare and I have been in pretty much telephone contact before this committee [meeting] and since 24 February there was information that these 1300 persons had already been able to check out the PBA. As Anti-Semiamets claimed, a weapon has been taken from one person and 12 cases are pending. But I would point out that there are about 20 other cases under consideration. It can be said that neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the PBA have been so-called on hold, the tasks have been distributed across regions and a great deal of work has been done. Urve Tiidus asked about weapons types, which both Kristian Jaan and Veiko Kommusaar confirmed that most of the weapons in the so-called civil circulation in Estonia are hunting weapons. Priit Sibul asked about double-citizens who have been issued a weapons permit. Riita Proosa, from the PBA, said that there are no such persons in Estonia. When applying for a weapons permit, a person of another nationality must submit a statement in the criminal record of his or her country of nationality and it is not that simple. After that, we made procedural decisions. All the decisions were consensual, I would like to stress with some caution: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 17 May, the proposal is to close the first reading, the deadline for amendments is 31 May at 16 a.m. this year, and the co-rapporteur of the lead committee is Marek Jürgenson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U297	Yeah, you don't seem to have any questions either. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. The political groups have the right to speak here and would like to use it on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group in Leo Kunnas. Please! Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U298	Probably not, according to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U299	Pleasure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Having weapons in itself is not a human right. This is particularly relevant at a time when Russia, along with its ally Belarus, has committed a large-scale attack on Ukraine. We have focused on a wide range of attacks, but there are other scenarios, several types of hybrid scenarios, attempts at overthrows, but we can be sure that all of them will be preceded or accompanied by armed internal conflict. This would occur exactly when FSB and GRU, the Russian special services, would be ordered to do so by President Putin or by the next president. That's how it's done. It doesn't take much to destabilise one country. There were never more than 200 members in the IRA, but what chaos he was able to achieve in Northern Ireland. Even with a few dozen people, it can cause enough chaos. It would make sense to prevent these risks. And what is the easiest way to do that is to separate the goats from the sheep. Then it is clear that we have our own citizens, we have the citizens of the European Union and the citizens of NATO countries, who are citizens of our allies, and everyone else who are not. Then the simple question is why should these other people in Estonia even have the right to have a weapon. If there is a question of nuances and details of whether they could possess hunting weapons and not semi-automatic weapons and pistols, then this is also a relevant issue that needs to be decided at last. That is why I call for support for the draft submitted by the Estonian Conservative People's Party and for continued work within the Commission in order to constructively assemble the draft submitted by us, the Fatherland and the Government of the Republic, in order to find the best and optimal solution that will take account of all the details when implementation takes place. But why take risks? Preventing is easier than fighting the consequences afterwards. Now we have clearly changed in a security situation. It is clear that all Russian citizens, as well as citizens of Belarus, are part of this so-called Russian world, and we can never really be sure of their loyalty to the end. That is why I call for further work on and support the draft. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U301	No more requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. We have completed the first reading of Bill 557. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 May at 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U302	The 20th item is the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Isamaa Group 558. Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U303	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber! Indeed, the Fatherland has submitted a bill motivated by the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the changed security situation. In fact, our draft has focused on suspending the authorisations of the Russian Federation and citizens of the Republic of Belarus, i.e. a relatively specific target group has been taken. The draft proposes that the weapons permits of the citizens of the two countries mentioned above be suspended for a period of at least one year, as well as for those citizens within two weeks at the latest, i.e. within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, they should either deposit their weapons with the police or dispose of them. The Minister of the Interior would also be obliged to lay down rules in his regulation for this period, as well as the possibility for a person, if he wishes to leave the country with a gun, to do so. At the same time, this bill also has the other side, so that Estonian citizens can legally hold a larger amount of ammunition and, on the other hand, only the citizens of the Republic of Estonia have the right to have semi-automatic weapons. As an implementing provision, it is stated that the Government of the Republic of Estonia should submit proposals to the Riigikogu within three months of the entry into force of this Act concerning the restriction of arms permits to foreign citizens and legal persons for security reasons. Indeed, as we have heard in the course of the previous draft proceedings, the people of the PBA, the people of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as various parties, interest groups, have been closely involved. The Estonian Arms Owners' Association has also addressed members of the Riigikogu, both to the Legal Affairs Committee and to the National Defence Committee with its proposals. Their approach was also one of the additional motivations for the Pro Patria Party to draft this bill. That would be a brief introduction to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U304	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U305	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! For the sake of the Steinogram: what has proved to be the obstacle that the draft introduced on 21 March we will be able to deal with quickly already on 19 May in the first reading format? It should also be directly related to national security. Are you aware of the circumstances in which the procedure has become entangled?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U306	Thank you. No, I don't know these things, but I have some idea. Maybe the government needed some time to get used to this idea, work it through and digest it, so when it gets to this hall, there'll be some sort of possible solution from that side.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U307	No further questions. Thank you! Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marek Jürgenson. Please! Quick, concrete work, nigga!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber! Yes, like the previous draft EKRE, the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Isamaa Group was also dealt with on Monday, 9 May. I'm not going to name those parties one by one here. The composition of the Commission was exactly the same as in the debate on the previous draft. Tarmo Kruusimäed replaced Priit Sibul. The question is that Priit Sibul also made such a good short presentation. Compared to the EKRE draft, then really, the draft of the Fatherland is a little more resolute, the circa 2600 guns must be collected within 14 working days and deposited on the PBA. This was considered by the Minister of the Interior to be a bit disproportionate and costly at the meeting of the Commission. Even these storage conditions must be special. I think we have people in the hall who can interpret how such a large amount of weapons can be placed somewhere. Veiko Kombusar, of the Ministry of the Interior, explained that the suspension of weapons permits is still dealt with on a case-by-case basis and is followed by more. I already told you about the numbers on the previous bill. So there was no much discussion in this sense. As Mr Kunnas mentioned here, indeed, we have already initiated a draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and it has also received a number of 627 SE. It has, in some respects, also taken the proposed drafts as a basis. This is about taking the weapons license exam, so that it will only take place in Estonian in the future. Then there are exclusion clauses against persons who have ever committed either more serious crimes or drug crimes, a society that could never apply for a weapons permit again anyway. Here, I believe, such a broad debate within the Commission will continue with the people of the EKRE and the people of the Fatherland. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior is involved. Well, we're gonna have to get to a good end result. In this sense, the police and the Home Office will continue to do their job. I would like to emphasise once again that I trust our law enforcement authorities here, not only the Ministry of the Interior and the PBPA, but also the defence police, who are doing this very seriously every day. But, of course, we need to introduce a change of law, and that's what we're dealing with. Of course, we also made procedural decisions. As with the previous draft, all the decisions were consensual: to put the plenary on the agenda on 17 May, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 31 May, and to appoint Marek Jürgenson as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U309	There's something else to ask at Tarmo Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U310	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! Clearly, you understand and realize that on 21 March, when you introduced this draft to both the EKRE and the Fatherland, it had a proactive idea to avoid possible provocations and cases on 9 May. It was also a sign that it was on 9 May that we dealt with this draft in the Commission. Perhaps then you could look which way the wind was blowing, and later perhaps the Commission also came out with [this]. I understand that there was some sort of pattern taken from what might be happening in the West. I was also really surprised that drug cartels in Mexico obviously did not have legal weapons permits, but they had illegal [guns] because they had been taken away from them for life. But is the situation in Estonia that bad? I don't think so. But what kind of future do you predict, the government bill goes on and the Fatherland and the EKRE stay in a drawer somewhere? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U311	Thank you, my good colleague. We can't decide to merge. We can propose to the initiators of both drafts in the Committee on Legal Affairs and, if the initiators agree, we can merge and argue the common part of it already in the work of the Commission. Once again, it's with the specialists at the Home Office. In this sense, it is up to all of us. How fast can we do that, time will tell. There's no brake here. As for March 21st, yes, good Tarmo, you referred to it earlier when you asked the question to Heiki Hepner. We didn't have an evaluation from the Government of the Republic, but in parallel, if it were to be followed immediately by a trial-free week... We have already discussed the urgent conduct of the so-called joint session with the National Defence Committee. I mean, we had a job, we talked to the Ministry of the Interior the whole time. We didn't stop the Committee on Legal Affairs from doing that. It didn't stretch from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U312	There really are no more questions. I'm really sorry to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U314	Yeah, here you go! I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. We have completed the first reading of Bill 558. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 May at 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U315	We have come to the last point on today's agenda without any notice: the presentation by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." Good minister, the hall is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U316	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Given the time, given that there are barely a lot of listeners at the moment via the means of communication, and the fact is that this presentation has been submitted in writing to the Riigikogu, the theories have been presented, anyone who has an interest can get acquainted with it, I will not read the whole of my long presentation, taking into account the time [of the clock] once more. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U317	Of course it is! Tarmo does. There you go, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U318	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If you really look at how the Board of the Riigikogu has put the minister's report to such a moment, specifically the last item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U319	So we can discuss it for a long time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U320	Although I must say that it is twice the size of the Minister for Social Affairs and half the size of the other minister. If we keep going like this, we can finally get relatively larger things. In short, what are the greatest goals of the current development strategy "Estonia 2035" by May? What we can put on, as the Centre Party customary, "It's done!"?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U321	Thank you. I think that we have had the greatest progress in the field of energy, where we have been able to get rid of the barrier so that wind farms, wind power [production] can be built in Estonia. Last week's government meeting was a sea area plan. Similarly, major progress is being made in removing barriers on land. I think it's the most important thing to take from here. Maritime progress has been made. Yes, in energy, above all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U322	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U323	Dear waitress, I read in the paper that you have been given a difficult task of fighting this harsh inflation. One of its greatest influences is nothing more than this sluggish climate revolution, a green turn. It's dramatic. We're in a dead end. Maybe this is what happens. We have to start double-driving packages here once in the quarter, if things stay in the same rhythm. Your constituents are not, on average, the most prosperous segment; we have put them in a very difficult position. The effects of war add to this. Should this plan not begin to be adjusted at all, in extremely dramatic circumstances called wartime?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U324	Thank you. I think you meant this climate plan. There is no doubt that this situation makes some adjustments to this scheme. In a way, some processes may accelerate. There are certainly also processes that are not accelerating, but are slowing down. But let's move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U325	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U326	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I don't like the word 'director', but it just seemed like I was always the directional guy in the previous composition of the transition to hydrogen energy. And now I'm gonna ask. Now this direction is going, without muttering, it's already evolving. How far away are we from the goal, and when will we still get these hydrogen plants and their distribution here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U327	Thank you. The first procurements have been carried out in order to carry out pilot projects. In the case of hydrogen, it will certainly have a great impact on what is happening now. Because hydrogen production requires a very high energy resource. What's going on right now, I'm sure there's a trace. But in the case of Estonia, when we are talking about sea wind parks, as I said, the plan for sea areas has been adopted, the sea wind parks in Estonia, I think, are in the years 2028 to 2030, and the energy generated by the sea wind parks is certainly able to produce more hydrogen in the case of the remaining energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U328	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U329	Yes, once again, even though it is early in the morning, I would stress that the most interested ones have remained in this hall, even though we are not very pleased with your lack of clarity. We will pass on to our group all the knowledge we will get. Still, I'd like to know a little more. Do you have any idea, first of all, what you are going to report to the Prime Minister, and can this really lead to an audit, because this scheme is not so fresh that it is somehow directly involved in the war? These changes are dramatic. We must undertake this plan, to revise it, just as Germany is reviewing its attitude for 70 years. It's time to reconsider. Is there really no need to make an audit on this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U330	Thank you. The proposals have, in fact, already been tabled in the past, all of which concerns the direction of energy production, that is, once again, wind energy production. All of this, as far as security of energy supply is concerned, the additional budget adopted today also contributes to ensuring security of energy supply. As far as prices are concerned, unfortunately, here we have the least leverage. Above all, we need to deal with ensuring that consumers are given the necessary compensation if energy prices are too strong, as they are likely to be this autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U331	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Minister, thank you very much for this thorough presentation. There are no requests to speak in the negotiations. The story about this point is that the Riigikogu will not take a decision when the debate is closed. Now, I have a sad announcement: the hearing is over. I'll see you tomorrow... I'm sorry! I'll see you tonight at 10:00, in 4 hours and 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U332	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! We're gonna start the 18th May briefing, and first we're gonna do the presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U333	7 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 94. Dear colleagues, since we have only five issues at the moment, I would like to suggest that we make one supplementary or more detailed question and two supplementary questions for each issue. If that's okay, we could work on it. That'll do. Thank you. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo and Minister for Health and Labour Tanel Kiik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U334	Let's get to the first question. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, it is answered by a member of the government, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is the indecisiveness of the coalition. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U335	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns the draft law, which has caused a storm in the government coalition, namely the draft of raising and indexing child and family allowances, which is very important, which is actually very well prepared and which is very necessary in Estonian society to create confidence for Estonian families and children. This is extremely important for the creation of a stable national family policy. Now the Reform Party and you have said that there is a need to find consensus in the coalition first, that it will still not be possible to adopt the drafts if there are no known sources of cover, it should be dealt with in conjunction with the state budget procedure and the state budget strategy. Moreover, at all, the initiatives that are being launched in Parliament, where one coalition party or one of the coalition's parties, in cooperation with the opposition, initiates, are also unprecedented, unheard of, and deserve to be condemned. I'm already asking you to deny your possible answer. These arguments, which you have come up with, do not really hold, because the current coalition, for example, has initiated several draft Riigikogu statements and draft decisions in such a way that some coalition ambassadors have joined the initiative, some have not. We also remember here the draft, in which, for example, ten delegates from the Centre Party did not vote and there was no agreement in the coalition, which concerned support for the territorial integrity of Ukraine. At the same time, the current coalition has adopted, without discussion of the state budget, both the average pension income tax exemption and the extraordinary pension rise and defence expenditure of 380 million, where no source of cover is known in advance and will be discussed later. These have been necessary and the right decisions, I will tell you right away, but your arguments on why to fight against child benefits and why not to support them simply do not hold any water. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Then why don't you support me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U336	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U337	Thank you. First of all, we are not fighting child support in any way. That's not true. Surely you can say that this is a very well-prepared draft, because it has been prepared by an advisor from your group. Surely you believe and support your group's advisers. You also know very well how governments work. We have 101 members here in the Riigikogu, and the government coalition can be formed by the one who gets over 50 votes in this hall, or more than 51 votes, so he has the majority. There is a coalition agreement in the government that has agreed on things that the coalition does and that the coalition does not do. That's how you rule, you know how many votes you have behind one or the other. Now, I am in no way defaming Parliament's initiatives. On the contrary. Parliament is a legislative body and constantly comes up with good initiatives. That is the work of Parliament. The question of what is the difference between the opposition and the coalition. The difference is that in the opposition you can come up with all sorts of ideas without actually having to answer the other side of the equation, but in the coalition, in the government, you bear the responsibility of government, or you have to answer the question of where the money comes from to cover this proposal. Now, pension increases. The pension, the income tax exemption for the average pension, which will enter into force next year, is already taken into account in the country's fiscal strategy, which the government puts together for four years. It also makes sure that the costs and benefits match accordingly. So this is how the government works. Of course, you know very well, too, if you are not primarily looking for support or discussing within the government, but discussing somewhere else, then perhaps the majority that is formed in this Chamber will be quite different. It seems to me by force that the other half of the equation, or this unpopular part, is what the opposition can fail to do, but the government cannot fail to do so. Maybe everyone wants to say the popular part, that everybody gets more money, but somebody has to say the unpopular part, somebody has to be the adult who tells us what we have the money for and what we don't have the money for. Unfortunately, we have a whole series of concerns that you yourself have raised, such as funding higher education, long-term care, education, teachers' salaries. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In fact, there are a lot of these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U338	And now the point to be clarified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U339	Thank you. Fortunately, I do not think that Parliament is divided into responsible and irresponsible Members. And that this front line goes along the line of opposition and coalition? I feel responsible as a member of the opposition, and the drafts that the Fatherland has submitted also take into account the country's financial resources and sources of cover. Well, I can't agree with your answer in this sense, you've given another example in some way. In the case of exceptional increases in pensions and the average pension income tax exemption, the RES has planned sources of coverage, but for example 380 million defence expenditures have no coverage whatsoever. I repeat: it was a very right decision and it was necessary to make this decision quickly. But it also confirms that if a decision needs to be made and it is a real political priority, that decision will not be delayed, it will be done, and this input will be used as a basis for the future process of the state budget and the state budget strategy. That is what you did with the current coalition in the case of defence expenditure, and you did very well. But we believe that the same should be done with the draft child support. But now my question. Today we are discussing an additional budget and a number of other drafts that the government has decided to commit to trust. This means that there can be no substantive debate in Parliament, no amendments can be discussed or voted on. That is very regrettable. However, there has been our proposal in the supplementary budget, which the government could have taken into account and which is very sensible: the pension increase, which has already been adopted by law and which should enter into force on 1 January next year, and the average pension tax exemption, which should enter into force by 1 July of this year. Then the need for one-off €50 support, which is much more bureaucratic and helps pensioners less, will disappear. Why do you not support this proposal? Why is it not in the supplementary budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U340	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U341	Thank you. First of all, the draft you have presented provides for additional costs of nearly EUR 300 million per year, each year, plus indexation, which means that this amount will increase every year. This parallel to defence expenditure is not quite the same, because defence decisions we made on a one-off basis. A quick decision had to be made in January, because what we really saw was that a full-scale war will start in Ukraine. It was clear that if we don't make this decision, we can't go back, and if the war really starts, everyone's gonna start stocking ammo, everyone's gonna be making defense expenses. This means that prices go up and there is a deficit that has arisen. Thanks to the fact that we made rapid decisions in January, we were able to go to procurement, so we can also make further decisions today within the framework that we then decided. So this difference is this: annual expenditure, for which you must have a permanent coverage in the budget and in the national budget strategy, continued, and the second is one-off investments, which are made quickly and can also be covered by loans. That's the difference. Now, linking the bill to trust. I very much agree with you that I do not prefer it either. I believe in parliamentary democracy, I believe that there must be debates in Parliament, but indeed, if your opposition partner, the EKRE, has not only blocked an additional budget procedure that needs to be carried out quickly, given the circumstances, but has also blocked a number of other important initiatives, then the government has one tool that can be used to overcome this obstruction, and this is a commitment to trust. I regret that this means that it is difficult to pursue parliamentary democracy in this form. But I really ask you, too, to talk to your opposition partner, because obstruction is an extraordinary thing that can be used in exceptional cases, but not for every draft. If this is the case, then yes, there is a tool in the government, a commitment to trust that can be used, but it would be better if we could discuss things rationally, just as you have made sensible proposals for an additional budget that could be discussed, or any other draft, but not hundreds of changes simply to paralyse the work of the Riigikogu. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This undermines Parliament's credibility and it certainly does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U342	And now the first supplementary question. As we agreed, there are two additional questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U343	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I also have a question after you about the government crisis, but right now I would like to talk about the population crisis and the same bill that we have been talking about for a very long time. But I'm still going back to that RES for a moment, in the context of the additional investment in defence costs and the need to acquire ammunition, which was done very correctly at the beginning of the year. I would remind you that when you were there discussing this state budget strategy earlier, there was a planned reduction in defence costs. Fortunately, as we saw afterwards, we finally arrived at the fact that the state budget still did not reduce defence costs, even though this was initially planned. I have a question in the context of the same population crisis. I have no better ideas and vision than this context of family benefits. This ideal or understanding of what is in Estonia is that there are two children in every great family. How do we come to realize that in every family at least three children could be normal? I am convinced that this measure could certainly contribute to this idea and ideal. Have you discussed at government level or in your political party what measures you think could be the measures that help us out of the population crisis? I think they certainly cannot be any short-term, and I do not complain that the current government has done nothing. These are very long-term things. But what are these ideas? And do you agree that this increase in family benefits could contribute to this ideal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U344	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U345	Thank you. Firstly, defence costs will increase to nearly 3% in the coming years, and indeed, we are in extraordinary circumstances where such steps need to be taken to ensure Estonia's protection. As far as birth rates are concerned, one-off grants may lead to exponential growth for a moment, but this is short-term. Studies have been carried out on this, for example, in 2018 it has taken place for a moment, but it is no longer there. Now, you're asking what would help. In my opinion, children are still born out of love and the fact that families feel safe, especially that mothers are happy and ready to bear children. When we look at what helps and what affects the birth rate. The parent's work is occupied and sufficient income and economic coping. There is one such labour force survey, which shows that if children can get to kindergarten and school, these concerns are not really there. And it affects the birth rate, there's a very clear effect. The quality of family relationships and parental competence also affect the birth rate. Just because both parents contribute to children's growth, women do not feel that it is only their burden that must be borne, and when they go back to work, in fact, in addition to having job assignments, children are still essentially their concern. It's something that affects. For example, according to the study I referred to, Estonian parents want more advice and help in raising children, but do not know exactly where to get this help. And then there's all that's about children growing up. Let it be the education of children that affects whether you give birth to children and how they will succeed later. The creation of community prevention and family centres actually helps to provide support for parents to have a safe environment in which to give birth to children. And research shows that nearly one third of the reasons for giving up a child are related to partner problems. Perhaps mothers do not feel safe, and it is important that men play an important role in family behavior to give women the sense of security that whatever happens, they will not be left alone with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U346	Another additional question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U347	Thank you. Prime Minister! Once again, I believe that the defence expenditure decided politically in the government's office and which does not yet have a source of cover is justified and justified in every way. Perhaps these decisions have even been too modest and should have had the courage to make a decision in the current war situation. But my example was simply that when it is necessary and it is a priority, decisions are made without knowing the sources of cover, just as you have done in this government coalition. Now, unfortunately, you missed the question of pension. I wonder, however, why did you not prefer the exceptional increase in pensions and the average tax exemption this year from 1 July and you decided that we would make a one-off allowance of EUR 50 for pensioners? This helps them much less and is more bureaucratic. Why did you choose this solution and not support our proposal to bring the extraordinary pension increase forward? And thirdly, you have now been a prime minister in the government for over a year, and maybe that's why you forgot a little bit about what parliamentary democracy means. I thank you very much for suggesting that you speak to the opposition partners, but there are no partners in the opposition as they do in the coalition, there is no opposition agreement or joint action; it is a coalition. So we're definitely not going to negotiate with the EKRE. They can be held by a coalition, and that is, above all, the responsibility of the government coalition and the responsibility of the government to negotiate with opposition parties when a stalemate such as the one that has now arisen arises. It would have been wise to begin with the obstruction, negotiate during the obstruction and seek a compromise. This has been found in the past, but this compromise can still be found between the opposition party and the government, not between the two opposition parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U348	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U349	Thank you. That's right. We've also been looking for something to help the EKRE out of this obstruction. But it's not. It's just a desire to stop. Why I'm referring to it is that you're still sitting close to each other and communicating with each other. If your good ideas are hindered by the blocking of the EKRE drafts, then the sound of your mind might sound. Coming to the question of pensions, pensions rose by 7% this year, an average of EUR 42, and the next year, indeed, an increase of EUR 20 is foreseen, in addition to indexation. This year's support for a single-living pensioner will rise by 75%, and it will rise from October, precisely to help pensioners who are really working hardest on price increases. For this reason, too, in the supplementary budget we have raised income support by 33%, precisely to help the most vulnerable, because indeed, we have had a high price increase. Of course, the other half of this price increase is that we have also had very high growth. The economy has grown by 8.6% last year, which is considerably higher than in Latvia, Lithuania or Sweden, for example, where it was 4.8%, and in Finland, where it was 3.3%. Unfortunately, this has also led to higher prices. But really, in addition to pension increases, we have provided for this buffer in the supplementary budget to help them in the autumn, in the event that prices are going to rise very high again. Unfortunately, the situation has become even more difficult if we consider that, in addition to this energy crisis, there is a full-scale war in Ukraine, which in turn reduces the market access of energy carriers so that there are fewer, which means that prices are therefore higher. So in any case, the next winter will be difficult and we must make sure that we help those who are most needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U350	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U351	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Jaak Juske, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is children's allowances. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U352	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Indeed, I will continue on the subject of children's benefits. For years, the Social Democrats have stood for children's benefits, so that this amount is fully dignified and ensures that families with our children can cope. It was in the Socialist Government that children's benefits were significantly increased in 2014. By the way, we did it with the Reform Party. In the meantime, the time has passed, eight years have passed, the cost of living has clearly increased, especially in the last year, and the rate of child benefit has clearly fallen into the way of time. The Social Democrats have also made a draft to increase this rate of support. Fortunately, the majority of the Riigikogu has also understood this need, and indeed it is a joint draft initiated by the ambassadors of the opposition and government union. I think this is a good example of cross-parliamentary cooperation and common concern in this area. However, you have said that if Parliament were to adopt this joint draft, you would resign from office as Prime Minister. I would like to ask whether you continue to believe that if Parliament decides to increase child support, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia will resign.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U353	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U354	Thank you. As you very well know, in parliamentary democracy, the government can be formed by the one who has the majority in favour of the Riigikogu to form the government, which means the vote of the 51+ ambassadors in this Chamber. In the case of a government or a coalition, it works by seeking cooperation from within the coalition and, of course, by seeking additional support from the opposition to different drafts. In this case, we have not been talked about in substance, we have not been given time for discussion, so there is a different coalition together. I cannot be the Prime Minister of a government in which I do not really know how many votes I have in the Chamber of the Riigikogu to push through ideas or to vote here, that is clear. So the coalition is somewhere else. So there cannot be a situation where there are things behind the Prime Minister that will cost the state budget nearly 300 million extra costs a year. Nearly 300 million additional costs per year means that some EUR 300 million must be recovered. And now, that's the problem. You want to do this, and I understand you very well, because you are only a popular part of this equation in the opposition, coming here and asking who can oppose raising child benefits. Really, who can be? I, too, am not against raising child benefits. But I'm in the government. And in the government, you're also going to have to make an unpopular part of this equation, or answer where the money comes from. Now that it is a fixed cost, an additional fixed cost, there are two options: whether another annual fixed cost of the same size is excluded from the state budget or whether additional taxes are found to be collected to cover this additional fixed cost with additional fixed income. But in that case, it would also be fair for you and all the parties that have come up with this idea to make this unpopular part of this equation and tell people honestly what taxes are going to rise in order to pay as high child benefits as this bill envisages and what additional cost it will entail. That's what I'm asking you. Do that part, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U355	The question to be specified. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U356	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I received a long lecture from you on parliamentary democracy, which I know very well, but you did not mention, of course, that Parliament, the Riigikogu, is an employer of the government in parliamentary democracy. In fact, the parliament would expect the government to do its job, also appreciates the situation in Estonian society, including the livelihood of families, which is clearly deteriorating every month in conditions of very rapid price increases. And raising child benefits is an essential step. Since the government has not taken this necessary initiative itself, Parliament, your employer, has come to your aid. Indeed, an initiative across parliamentary groups should also be a clear signal to the government that this issue needs to be addressed. And if Parliament really should approve this draft, and I think Parliament will approve it, as most political groups support it, then you will have the task of implementing this Riigikogu, this law and the necessary sources of cover. But since you did not answer my question, I ask this question: if Parliament approves this necessary law, will you really resign? You can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U357	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U358	I already answered that question in the previous answer. But if you say you're gonna take it here and come help us and help us do it, then I'm gonna say come and help us and tell us where the money is found. Right now, it sounds just like it's coming from a family, right, a teenager and tells me that he wants to get a car, and it's going to cost, right, so much. Then he tells the grown-up to find the money, all right? But that's what the family father says, that we two, right, Mom and Dad make a total of 2,000 euros, and we can't take that fixed cost, because we just don't get those costs together. That's what I'm asking you to be so-called adults and do the part. If we say in the family that all right, our income is this, but that's what we should do, we'll see if somebody takes extra work or goes to work to cover this cost, or we'll cut off some other expense, sell off some other property, okay, even though the property is a one-off income, it doesn't help, you need to find a fixed income. This is the part that has to be done. At the moment, you also say, it turns out that you are taking the decision that an additional EUR 300 million must be found somewhere, and you are telling me that you will find the money. That's not quite fair. It's not quite fair, like this. Why don't you do the other side and say it yourself? As was the case in Switzerland when the citizen's salary was asked. People's initiative asked whether you wanted civil wages for everyone, but it also asked honestly this second part of this equation: civil wages for everyone means so much tax increase. And 73% of people said that we do not want a tax increase and therefore we do not want this civil salary for everyone. It would have simply been asked if you wanted a civil salary of EUR 1 000 for everyone, then I think 100% of everyone would have had their hands up so, of course, we do. But in fact, the question on which it comes at the expense of whether or not there is a payment being raised must be answered, whether or not something is canceled? You know very well that we still have very many needs in the country, for which you have also stood: long-term care, teachers' salaries, funding for higher education. And for this reason, these things are always viewed with the budget. It is that we cannot do all things, but we can decide how we share these things. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let's look at all the needs together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U359	And now two additional questions. Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U360	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In fact, it is very sad that there is such a statement in this Chamber today, as you say, that I have to find out that you stress that certain things have been agreed in the coalition. Well, don't have to find you, the coalition will have to find it and discuss these issues. You emphasise that there is no government support for good proposals. We have put forward very good proposals, they have not even been negotiated with us or [nothing from us] has been asked. We have also tabled fewer than ten amendments to the additional budget, and no one has even bothered to talk about the government coalition on these issues. The second in this debate is that, now, this is an obstruction, which is why good proposals cannot, or will not, receive support, like a debate. Yes, you are right about this debate, this debate could be held in speeches. We may be able to speak and give speeches on this subject today, but, unfortunately, these [proposals] have not received support. It is very nice that the limit of coping has finally risen, this good proposal was put forward. And the most difficult people [the aid proposal] had already been submitted during the budgetary procedure, during this year's budget procedure. This would already have helped families with high electricity costs to spend large amounts on home expenses in January. I haven't made that move. Then you blame the remote for the opposition, make a deal with each other, don't make an obstruction. I see it in such a way that it should be done that, first of all, whoever is in power also involves those who are not [just] opposition here, but have received a mandate from the people. They have been elected to the Riigikogu, they represent a certain number of voters. They are absolutely not taken into account. That's why it's just sad. But my question specifically is that. We launched a draft on 22 March on the increase of the first and second child's support from EUR 60 to EUR 100. It's not too much to ask. However, there is no support or government opinion to support the idea of this draft. Can't be required to... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry! You can't just demand one side, you have to open the door yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U361	Thank you, dear fellow. It's okay that you passed a few seconds. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U362	Thank you. I do not agree that we have not supported your proposals. First of all, let's start with the one that didn't touch the money, which meant that the minors got to the psychiatrist's appointment, and we did it with you. When we are talking about energy subsidies, we have taken your proposals into account. We made new subsidies to cut red tape and help people who really needed help because of high energy prices. We have made a very comprehensive package, which, first of all, lasted longer, seven months compared to other countries. We did so separately for those in particular need of help below the median income targeted support. In addition, we made subsidies for electricity, district heating and gas for all, which actually helped many people to cope with these costs. Because they really have been very difficult. We have listened to and taken note of these proposals. Now, with regard to the extra budget in this respect, we really do have that, unfortunately, both the Fatherland and you have made proposals that, thanks to the EKRE Obstruction, fall under this road roll, because we have to link this draft with trust, it is not possible to deal with it in any other way. As I said, I do not think it is right that it must be pushed through so forcefully, but I would also consider it right that there are proper debates in Parliament and amendments are being tabled that can be discussed. That is absolutely the right approach. But I'm asking you, if you're thinking about how to increase the cost side, help yourself to think about how to increase the revenue side to cover these costs. That's the request. So it isn't that everyone really is the excellent proposals that the opposition is making, but the source of the cover still needs to be found by the coalition. In any case, it could be together that the proposal to increase subsidies so much, I have said that I am not against raising subsidies, we must discuss it, but we must discuss it together with the debate on the state budget, precisely because, in fact, we have other needs than child subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U363	The second additional question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U364	Good manager! Prime Minister! It certainly cannot be argued that the government has also tried to solve the energy crisis and to provide various subsidies. But if we are now talking about an additional budget and this debate, I can tell you if you have not been told that, for example, the proposals for amendments were discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in such a way that if someone had 20 suggestions for improvements, then one minute was granted at the time of the submission of these amendments. Maybe a few seconds were there for each of the suggestions for improvement. In fact, these amendments were not discussed at all, regardless of whether they would have come to this Chamber or not. But when we talk about the subject of family benefits, which was the beginning of the question, I think that there are family benefits, a number of good qualities. And I'm sure one thing I especially like is that if the third, older child becomes an adult, the family allowance doesn't go away. Normally, as we know, the cost of going to university is even higher. But you asked where to find the cover. I can say that you have more than 200 million in the additional budget for LNG, but I do not think there is any need for this right now, because private companies have taken on this role. The second is that Elering is taking over 100 million out of our pockets, last year and this year. But it is literally a mistake for Elering to open this third line between Latvia and Estonia. These money covers are already half a billion by themselves. So there would be a cover for children's benefits. If I go into that budget again, I can see that there is more air on every line than there is for the euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U365	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U366	Thank you. First of all, I represent the government, and that's executive power. It is not my place to comment on how Parliament is doing its work. The Committee on Finance is one of Parliament's committees, the committees can organise their own work and the Members can make their own proposals on how to do it better. Just to remind you that while you were in the government and we were in opposition, we were likewise not given time to present amendments in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But this is the organisation of Parliament's own work, and these complaints we were able to lodge then and you can submit to the Committee on Monetary Affairs now, this is not about executive power. Now, to come to this question: you are tying up the 30 million LNG terminal and its hauling docks and 170 million gas supplies in an awfully comfortable way in an additional budget. These are both one-off costs. At the same time, we are talking about an increase in child benefits, which brings about 300 million fixed costs per year. Maybe one cost is a one-off and the other is a fixed cost, which means you have to find 300 million more every year, not one-off. Maybe you can't cover it for that. The purchase of gas supplies, for which we have 170 million out of the additional budget. This is necessary because we know that Russian gas is no longer coming and LNG capacity worldwide is also limited because competition for these same energy sources is very high. We are working to get it, also on the part of the state, we must also acquire this gas supply within one point-hour, precisely for the fact that if Estonia's total consumption is five terawatt-hours per year, the homes will not remain cold and yet we will still have enough gas. This is what we keep in the Latvian gas storage facility in case there is a shortage on the world market. Then Estonia would have acquired this reserve and in this way it could be used to keep homes warm during the very difficult winter period that comes. So, yeah, a fixed cost and a one-off cost. One-off costs can be covered by a loan, but the loan cannot finance an additional annual cost; it must be covered permanently by the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U367	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U368	Let us now move on to the third question. Priit Sibul, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is a government crisis. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good lord! I have some headlines from the media. "A bad sign of a government crisis?'; Karilaid: 'There was no negotiations on raising child support during the weekend', from the Evening Weekend; 'The government crisis again!"Is the government falling apart? There will be conflicting signals from Toompea," from Õhtuleht on Friday; President Karis: "The government cannot run the country without cooperation and trust," from Postimees on Friday; "The Prime Minister raised the white flag" on Friday. These are the ones that have passed since the end of the week and since the beginning of this week. But earlier on, 18 January: "There really is a governance crisis in government," Päevaleht, 18 January; 17 January in the evening newspaper: "The crisis in energy prices; Jaanus Karilaid: "The leadership of the Reform Party has taken the crisis too lukewarmly, we are waiting for answers today"; "Jüri Ratas: the window of time to prevent a government crisis is closing, but it is still smiling," Delfis on 17 January: "The government crisis? There was no agreement in the Coalition Council. The Reform Party disagreed with the Central Party's proposal." If we recall, it was actually a crisis before you put the government together. You went to do a government where one party was in a crisis. And I agree with you, what you said to national broadcasting at the beginning of the year: "I look forward to the relief of crises so that I can deal with governance. " I have a question: How and when do you plan to achieve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U370	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U371	Thank you. Yeah. That's a good question! Indeed, there is no need for such headlines these days. I do not think we need any government crises either, given that we have an energy crisis and we have a war in Ukraine that has very clear security conclusions for us too, which we have to deal with. We know that all of this is likely to lead to a global food crisis, a food security crisis, and there are other concerns. We are now in a situation where, in fact, a draft has been tabled that has not been negotiated with us in order to find a solution. And it seems to me that since you have a majority together, it doesn't make sense to negotiate with us because you have voices behind this bill. I understand Fatherland very well, it is your election promise literally, it is a jackpot for you to come to fulfill your election promise in such a way that all the voices get behind it. But it is clear that this changes the dynamics of the entire functioning of the Riigikogu or the functioning of the government quite clearly. So yes, such ultimatums are presented here and are complex. As I have said and answered before, when such new coalitions have been born, the new majority is together, then this coalition will certainly not be there. It is not an ultimatum, it is simply a declaration of political reality, as you know very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U372	The question to be specified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U373	Thank you, manager. Good lord! I actually didn't quite get it. As I said, in reality, this is not just a matter of this last week. We also remember the spring debate and the debate from the beginning of the year where the government crises have been. And just like I said, I didn't think this government was even in office yet, there was a crisis before that. I have not quite understood whether what you are doing is an act in which you, say, coalition partners and ministers appear to be so demanding and evil. I don't know if you're going to tolerate this situation, suffer from it, or enjoy it. In fact, there is an opportunity for you to stop this bull, take the paper to Kadriorg and put together a new functioning government. When can this be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U374	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U375	Yeah. Since our coalition partner always confirms that they want to be in this government, yes, we would like to see it expressed in action, not just in words. I guess this is a very complicated situation right now. There have really been many of these crises, and there is still a chance that the coalition partner will understand the consequences of this act, so to speak, step away from this bill and seek a solution within the coalition, as is usually the case in the government. It is a desire to do so with a budget, precisely so that all other needs can also be covered. But if it doesn't, then of course there are new pictures of the land and the sea. We'll have to see how it goes. It seems to me, in this Chamber or by looking at this political picture at all, and it is quite the impression that, since there are such difficult times, in fact, difficult times are still coming in the autumn, and we know very well that there will be an election, for which there will be no simple solutions, then it will be much easier for you to be in the opposition, to say how everything is wrong and how everything could be much better, but you do not have to take responsibility for it. So, what do I want to say? It seems to me that it is a terrible push to the opposition, because it is actually much more comfortable in crises, especially given that elections are coming. But what I'm saying is that the Reform Party is not running away from responsibility. We have never done this in difficult times, nor have we done it this time. We are prepared to bear this electoral responsibility, both now and in response to the winter and the election, and this is difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U376	And now two additional questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U377	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I understand that the two most difficult issues have been the government in recent times: one is health and COVID, the other is our energy costs. Maybe you can comment more today, disengage. This morning it was on the news that you once again gave the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications the task of finding solutions to energy prices. I know that in March you gave this task to the LNG solution. Well, that's where the solution came from. It's just a private investor who's going to do it and the state company is going to compete with a Finnish company. On the subject of electricity, I do not see the government offering any solution today either. Do you believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will come to you, I don't remember, was it July 16th, or by what date did you give that order? What really is your hope, and do you believe that there will be a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U378	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U379	Thank you. What we need to understand is that energy, energy, are very difficult times. One reason is that perhaps not all of the decisions that should have been taken in time have been made in the past, but in fact a very large part is that we are in a completely new situation. As early as last summer, Russia began to manipulate gas supplies. When, normally, gas storage is filled with gas from May onwards, they created an artificial deficit, which did not result in so much gas, and which we saw in turn in these electricity prices, energy prices in general, which were in winter. Now that we were in November-December, we were also thinking about different solutions, which are faster solutions that would bring this price down. Then there was one thing that went through electricity sellers and producers, that if the Riigikogu changed this law so that prices could be fixed for a longer period of time, then they could come up with EUR 20 to 30 megawatts per hour below the price they currently offer as constant prices. I am simply saying that if, for example, in Finland, there are 90% fixed-price contracts and 10% are stock exchange contracts, then in Estonia it is about 50:50. This means that consumers will be able to benefit from very low prices, but, unfortunately, it must also cover a very high proportion. Now I have again called these electricity sellers with the question that, well, at the time you promised, the Riigikogu has now adopted these changes, why these prices have not come down. But the answer is that the situation has become drastically worse, because in addition to the energy crisis, there has also been a war. The fact that all countries are increasingly abandoning Russian gas, Russian fuel, is again creating uncertainty on the market. Perhaps I also asked MKM because they are constantly on this issue so that they can think through and come up with solutions, including how to educate people and what recommendations we will give people for the coming winter, so that they can also mitigate their own risks. MKM has that information. And the other thing about LNG, the private sector now says they can do everything they want. I'm really afraid it's the kind of project they say in winter that you know we can't do it on our own. And then they're asking for some huge support from the country again. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But it has now been said that this is not the case, the private sector is prepared to do so itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U380	And a second supplementary question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U381	Thank you, manager. Good lord! You answered me that your partner has told me that they want to continue in the coalition. In the old days, it used to be like saying, "Don't you believe the wolf." When I look at the person sitting on your right hand... My question is, do you believe that? It's been so many times. When it comes to domestic violence, people always say it's the last time, but Signe, sitting on the right, tells you that you can't really believe it. There's no way you can believe that. And when I look at the behavior of your good coalition partner, my dear and esteemed colleague Jaanus Kariladi, he was described earlier by saying that at each wedding, the groom and the deceased at the funeral, but I think he has reached a new level, and he also appears at the funeral, and in part at the wedding, he is a deceased. Do you agree that the level you have at government level is unprecedented?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U382	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U383	Jaanus Karilaid is not in the government; he is in the Riigikogu. But he's really in the coalition, and he really is a very active person. The fact that you don't believe the wolf's story to me seems to be coming from your experience somehow. You've also been in coalitions and you know what to believe and what not to believe. Well, the question is, words can be one and actions can be another. Well, that's a lot of trouble, and we all do, I think, have a time for our inner voice to talk about how it's gonna go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U384	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U385	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, the Social Protection Minister Signe Riisalo, and the topic is agreed in the coalition agreement. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U386	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The coalition agreement, which you signed on 25 January 2021, now states that I am not quoting the whole point, but a part of it that we pay particular attention to the underprivileged families, families raising children with special needs, and now particularly important for single parents and families with many children. My question concerns single parents. The support of a single parent has remained unchanged for decades, which is EUR 19 18 cents. And reading the coalition agreement and, as the Prime Minister said, how governments will be formed, agreeing what will be done, we were also waiting for what will actually be done, what will be done, what will be done, what will be done, about the support of single parents. However, since we could not wait to do so, on May 12, we ourselves submitted a draft regarding the increase in the support of a single parent. It is not unknown to anyone that at the end of the first quarter, according to Statistics Estonia and the Social Insurance Board, there were 8804 single parents, families where support was received. And the children who received support were 10222. Perhaps you would now have the opportunity to say, is the good proposal that the Social Democrats have initiated, the government is planning to support? Or do you have any better thoughts about what you want to do to make it easier for single parents to cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U387	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U388	Thank you, Mrs Helmen Hunter, for your question. The subject of single parents is quite a complicated one. After all, we know that single parents within the meaning of the law are largely parents who raise the child alone because the other parent is dead or because the child's birth act does not have the name of another parent. If we look at the rights of children, as well as at the opportunity for children to support another parent, including emotional support and participation in education, it is not very good practice to encourage the emergence of single parents by any public support or other measure, in the very way that there is no parental or paternity entry in the birth certificate. But the truth is that since 2021, the number of single parent children has fallen very strongly, essentially by 1000 children per year and has fallen from 22000 to 10288. We also know that 2.5% of children live in absolute poverty in Estonia and that single parents have children in absolute poverty 5.3%. It is twice as high, even more, so that this risk of poverty really exists there. But there are many ideas about the support of single parents. First of all, it is important to point out that we have had conversations with single parents, interviews. Their expectation is that because they have a chronic lack of time, they want to have a more flexible childcare system, in addition to material support. Similarly, they need to be counseled in order to make the right choices, including fathering a birth act, even when they are pregnant. It is feared that joint custody in case of unwillingness to raise a child together can be a source of concern. That is why we are planning to launch an additional innovation programme in the autumn, where we are trying to find smart solutions to support fatherhood so that children are not single parent children. Similarly, in a local government, we try to provide individual parents with a pilot-in-command with an additional flexible childcare system and also to look for community opportunities. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In addition, there is a plan for the RES to discuss raising the amount of support for a parent raising a child alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U389	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U390	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Indeed, our draft concerns a person whose birth certificate or family data are recorded in the population register do not have a record of his father or the parent has been identified as a fugitive in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. I don't quite agree with your comparison that one parent is dead. In fact, the situation is that, in the case of a parent raising a child alone, the right to receive a survivor's pension from his father, in the event of his death, is limited, but we have talked very little about this issue of artificial fertility. More than 600 children were born in Estonia, according to the medical register, in 2020 alone 670 children were born. Of course, the Ministry does not have an overview of this, and such statistics do not include the number of single mothers raising a child alone because the child does not have another parent because the child is born by artificial conception. At the moment, I am just reading to you a small paragraph of the letter that came: "A good member of the Riigikogu, please initiate a bill that would put an end to this single parent's support 19.18, because it is shameful and humiliating. I have raised two very good children who are now one of the graduates of high school, the other of comprehensive school, and I have given them the best education in my mind. These children really do not have fatherhood, but this 19 euros 18 cents has been the one that tells every single mother who raised each child for more than 20 years: thank you. " In fact, my question was that there really are other problems in a single parent's family, in addition to financial support, but it has gotten in the way of time, and it really needs to be extended, viewed, and discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U391	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U392	Yeah, thanks! I very much agree that there is a need for more attention, and there is also a need to look at the survivor's pension paid to children. They are also unequal for children, this size depends on the income of the maintenance person, on the social tax paid, but we are actually solving the same problem - the economic livelihood of a growing child without another parent - and we are reducing the risk of poverty. Just as you are bringing in an increase in the number of children born by assisted reproduction, we have noted that if entering the father's name is no longer such a problem in Estonian society and fathers are increasingly responsible for raising children, it is precisely the proportion of children born by artificial insemination among children who are single parent children that has increased. This is also the reason why we intend to analyse the survivor's pension and the support of a parent raising a child alone by the end of this year in order to find smart solutions to really help parents who are alone in raising a child. So, in addition to the desire to increase the allowance for single-parent children, we will also look at the financial situation of children receiving a survivor's pension, and we will come up with these proposals at the end of the year. And as I have said before in the Riigikogu, as well as in the Committee on Social Affairs, in the context of discussions on the country's budgetary strategy, this is the right place where we can plan long-term spending on the state and make corresponding commitments as a support measure. One of the draft laws submitted by the Social Democrats to the Riigikogu and waiting for the procedure is the same as the Family Benefits Act, and it concerns the starting points for equal treatment, which I personally very much support. This also applies to the wording of the Law on the Bringing of a Registered Partner, so that, indeed, children are treated equally, regardless of whether their parents are married or partners under the Cohabitation Act. In fact, under the Cohabitation Act, partners are also different-sex people who have other motives for not getting married, but they have a common desire to raise children together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U393	And now two additional questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U394	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Helmen opened the coalition contract lines, and there is also the topic of families with many children. Surely you have also read this bill, the draft law on family benefits, to which 54 members of the Riigikogu have signed. At the end of this month, the Riigikogu should have its first reading and I hope that everyone who has signed will also support the completion of the first reading. I know that the Social Committee unanimously supported the completion of the first reading. I like the part about this bill, and I'd like to know if you like that idea. The current family allowance that our party has brought to this hall and which works is that when an older child becomes an adult, the family allowance will disappear. Now the point in the draft family allowance is that, until the younger child becomes an adult, the family allowance is valid. Do you support this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U395	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U396	Thank you for your question. I have to say, unfortunately, that it is certainly difficult to support this provision in this form. There are quite objective and practical reasons for this. First of all, this provision relates to receiving or not receiving support for becoming an adult child. However, the whole part of the Family Benefits Act is related to the study of the child, i.e. in the context of family benefits, the beneficiary of the child benefit is a person who is up to 16 years old or a person who is up to 19 years old, including the end of the academic year, when he or she becomes 19 years old. You have this to do with adulthood, but in my opinion, it creates quite a lot of confusion and problems, so I can't support it in this form. In addition, you do not have the calculations in the draft, which is the additional cost. If, in general, you have calculated the draft, this specific measure is not. And I can tell you that this measure will lead to additional costs of almost six million in 2023, but since it is understandable that it has been planted or built as an increasing cost, because the children who are of adult age will always be increased, this cost will rise to 22 million by 2026 already in three years. So I think it is difficult to support it in this form. If there is a desire to design a really good measure, then it is possible to come to these negotiations in substance and to the expenditure negotiations at the end of the summer of this year, at the beginning of the autumn, when the country's budget strategy is being discussed and we can see what essential long-term expenditure the state can take, at the expense of what others have failed or at the expense of savings, or at the expense of tax increases. So it's possible to come back to that. I will also look to the left in the hall for a moment, and with regard to Mrs Helmen Hunt, I have a very big respect that she has kept up the subject of informal care, the subject of long-term care. It's in my briefcase, and it worries me deeply. And 50 million is the resource that we can use to help the same families who raise children, but who have to support their needy family members in general care. There are many places to consider and they need to be considered, but this is the case during the discussions on the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U397	The second additional question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U398	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear fellow, Minister. From the support of a single parent, we reached smoothly the law on equal treatment of children and cohabitation. But I still have a question about single parents. Yes, of course, we support the equal participation and treatment of children, as do parents. But the question is that the draft, which we launched on 12 May, specifically concerns certain changes. You say you have the analysis ready by the end of the year. A bit of an impression that all the decisions taken within the framework of the RES, which is also very sensible, do not say that it is not related to future elections, they are. I guess they're involved in future elections, on the one hand, and on the other. But this is also the place where suddenly you should think in a statesmanly manner and think similarly that perhaps some important and good things, such as an increase in the basic part of pensions of EUR 20 or an increase in the average pension tax exemption or child benefit, could be done if it can be done in such a way as to help people sooner rather than just before the elections, without knowing who will bear the next government responsibility. This draft, which we have put forward, specifically concerned the rise in this support, and I very much hope that in the government you will, however, discuss this issue and, in giving your opinion to it, also take into account the fact that indeed some children who have been born through assisted reproduction and mothers who are actually raising children where there is no father's note need to be supported. They are not all recipients of income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U399	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U400	Thank you. Coming to the draft submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I say that the explanatory memorandum to this law provides a little less than half a million. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made its calculations and found that the cost of this bill in 2023 is 4.5 million. If adopted as such, there is no reason to assume that the number of children of single parents will continue to decline at the same rate, which is why, taking into account the birth of children and taking into account the behaviour of parents to date, the estimated cost of 2026 is 4.7 million. When I am in the chair of the Minister for Social Protection, I must look at the welfare of all Estonian children. We have a whole series of commitments to cover from the European Social Fund. Supporting children with special needs in local governments in the form of childcare and support services costs around 8 million per year. These resources will come to an end from the European Social Fund. If I have to weigh on these choices, which are very difficult choices, whether to ask the state budget for an annex to childcare for children with special needs, as well as a support person, which families are used to using, which has allowed parents to participate in working life since 2016, because children have been kept and the services are guaranteed, it is not possible to cancel these services. There's definitely no money for everything. But I'm gonna make these choices. Indeed, as has been said, an increase in the support of a single parent is one of the proposals that can be considered. I am very sorry that it has not found the support of the other opposition parties and the Centre Party, and it has been left out as a proposal for one of the major drafts that we have discussed here together today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U401	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U402	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, meets Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is an additional budget. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U403	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I come up with the same thing over and over again, it's energy. EUR 227 million have been allocated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for energy security measures. Of this, 170 million are gas reserves and 30 million are the purchase of shares in the company operating the LNG terminal for Elering. I have a question about this. It doesn't seem like it's worth telling me that the private companies didn't come until today. For the last seven, eight or nine years, private operators have been working on this issue. At the beginning of March they were very clear, I understand, they were negotiating with the government, they were ready to create a terminal, and all they asked was for the government to decide to abandon Russian gas. But this is the situation that private operators are creating a solution that is the only way that we will have gas this year or next winter. However, the State supports the creation of another competing terminal. Well, if there's a joint project with the Finns for $30 million, it's on the Finnish side. He's in the budget now. No matter how, but we should give a very clear message to people and businesses. This is not directly related to the green turn, but we know that it is private investors who invest more in such matters. The current situation is that, just as there is a terminal in Klaipeda that can be subsidised, and if a Finnish subsidised terminal is now established in one or two years' time and there should be an unsubsidised terminal in Estonia, they will not be able to compete with each other in any way on the market. Are we not currently hurting entrepreneurs who are willing to contribute this money themselves? And in two years, maybe they'll pull the hat on? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Maybe I've got it all wrong. Push over, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U404	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U405	Thank you. I have not personally been involved in negotiations between the private sector and MKM or Elering. But since this is a very important subject, I've been asking in the cabinet all the time for MKM to give an overview of it. And things have really changed very quickly. There are three parts to this whole LNG issue. One part is that we have this gas connection with Balticconnector, or Finland, and we need a pipeline to reach. It's based on Elering's expense. Okay. Now the second stage is the hauling dock, which gives the opportunity to accept FSRUs, or floating terminals of liquid gas with the possibility of regasification, or LNG ships. There was a dispute with Alexela, who has the right to build this quay to do it with Elering, as if it were part of this infrastructure. The third part of this whole solution is FSRU, a floating terminal with regasification potential. The hauling dock should be ready by November this year. Now the question is, where does this ship come from to the dock? MKM has negotiated and obtained an agreement with Finland. Since Finland's gas consumption is 30 terawatt-hours per year and our gas consumption is 5 terawatt-hours per year, they do not currently have the option of taking FSRU, that is, against the ship. If we have this option, we will rent it together, so that the costs will be covered according to the gas consumption of 80% will be borne by Finland, 20% will be borne by Estonia, and they will be rented together. And first, this ship comes to Estonia by a quay, which is already ready. This ship's rental is, first, expensive and, second, there are few ships available. In fact, it is the private sector that has contracts for the supply of gas to both companies and people, i.e. they are the ones who are responsible to the people or to the companies to have the gas. The state can make sure that we have acquired this gas supply. I'm running out of time, maybe I can get back to you on the next question. But basically right now, the private sector has said that this agreement between Estonia and Finland is not needed, because they acquire this ship themselves. And that's all their expense. What is my fear in this regard? I am absolutely not opposed to the private sector working, really, if they see an opportunity to serve there. But my concern is that we are not in this situation where we say no to the Finns now, we are kind of falling behind this project, and then, for example, in the autumn, the private sector says no, we cannot do it without the support of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U406	Now, the question to be specified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U407	Thank you. I'm going to be a little more specific. I understand that, of course, the Prime Minister cannot be present at every meeting with all the topics, but this Finnish-Estonian joint venture is talking about renting a ship for ten years, so that ship will be paid twice by rental. Businesses in Estonia are ready to build a terminal where there is no longer any need to bring a ship that also gasses liquid gas. The second point is that you're saying you have to buy one sharp gas. Clearly, this 170 million can buy at least two sharps when we talk about the market price of LNG gas, and it is not possible to buy gas from elsewhere in general, even theoretically it will not be possible to buy gas from anywhere other than the port of Paldiski when it is finished. If anyone says that Klaipeda is gonna be, he's gonna be lying because there's no such possibility in Klaipeda. Klaipeda has announced on 25 February that it will not give gas to Latvia and Lithuania. There will be over-purchases, I know that Eesti Gaask has bought some quantities, but this is the other side of the deal. Now I'm talking about this one pointer. You have made an agreement on equal treatment with Latvia, Estonia and Finland, and then you say that the five spikes are the load of Estonia and 25 to 30 sharps are Finland and Latvia is somewhere 15 sharps. If we begin to share equally, Estonia will be a small part of this one, but in fact the agreement states that if there is a crisis situation, everyone will get the same gas from the same Inčukalns. Or do I misunderstand? All the companies now understand as I have said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U408	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U409	Yeah, thanks! First of all, this is the situation now: since the private sector has said that they are the ones who are worried about this ship themselves, the state will not worry about this ship. That is my concern, that if we now give it up, the agreement where our cost would be 20%, the Finns spending 80%, then the Finns themselves go on with their project and we rely on the private sector in Estonia. In themselves, if they can play it out, get this ship and everything, that's great. This cost is borne by the private sector, which earns from the sale of gas. And that's what's happening right now: we're not going to do two parallel things, but when the private sector says it does, the private sector does. It's just my problem, as they say in English, that it's too big to fail, this project is too big to fail. And if the same private sector that is now claiming that they absolutely do not need any support from the state, does not come to us in the autumn to say that, you see, we still do not play out, now the state has to bail out. And then everyone, I am the Prime Minister here or someone else, has to answer here before the Riigikogu how we are now in this situation. Right now, it's just that we're in such a difficult place, that's the problem. Not that I do not trust the private sector, but I fear that we may be put in front of the fact that we must, in any case, provide additional taxpayers' money. Now, as far as the gas supply is concerned, that 170 million is, yes, overcharged. I also asked that if we look at these prices, there will be more for it, either more for purchase or very clearly foresaw that all the money left over from this gas supply will come back to the budget and we can actually use it to cover other concerns. And now the third question concerning these agreements between Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. The point was that we are entering into solidarity agreements, which means that if we have a gas shortage, we would not be in a situation where, for example, in Latvia or Finland, factories using gas are burning with full steam, but there is not enough gas in Estonia to heat homes. There must be solidarity in ensuring that protected consumers are protected first and foremost between each other, between countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U410	Yeah, procedural question, Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U411	Yeah, I'm just telling the Prime Minister that no one other than Estonia has the point of buying a spare. In other words, 15% of the size is left to Estonia with one pointer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U412	Thank you. And now two additional questions. Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U413	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Prime Minister! We have an additional budget debate in the Riigikogu today. At this point, I would like to congratulate the government and the coalition, which shows that cooperation is very good, because it is a very serious and very necessary and very important document, there are a lot of important things. I'm asking. Perhaps you will shed some light on what is then, even though there are security issues that are very important, I am not saying that they are of little importance to me, I very much like that there has been attention to food security and, in the area of agriculture, there is, for example, a drop in excise duty on special-marked diesel, and... It's just, why don't you bring out some more of those very important things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U414	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U415	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to answer, if you'll excuse me, the procedural question of Aivar Koka, which was not procedural at all. This one sharp hour we're going to get into that Latvian gas storage facility, it's still our own gas supply. And that's exactly how Latvians store gas, as far as I know. Now for the extra budget. Indeed, this is the extra budget for the war that you are discussing today in this big hall, and hopefully the Riigikogu will also receive support. Above all, we strengthen defence in a broad sense as well as the protection of the population, because there has often been a very narrow talk of national defence, which really means all arms, ammunition, everything that is actually linked to the defence of the state, but it is also very important to have a broad range of defence, i.e. the protection of the population as a whole. There, you know, when you're dating people, people have a lot of anxiety about the news coming from Ukraine. One question that has been asked very much is whether we have air alarm systems, how we can know if there is a threat at all, and whether we have shelters. That's what we're gonna allocate the money for. In saying this, I would also like to say that we do not actually see any military threat to Estonia right now, but it is better to be prepared so that it will never be needed than that we do not have these things when we need them. In addition, as I have been able to answer for a long time on the previous question, there is money allocated to energy security so that we can become independent of Russian gas and we have gas reserves here too. In terms of energy security, and actually, it is also linked to food security, as you yourself pointed out, until the end of this year, we will reduce the excise duty rate on special-purpose diesel to the minimum allowed in the European Union, which is EUR 21 per 1000 litres. This is precisely necessary for agriculture, the agricultural sector, in order to cope with increased fuel costs, which in turn are reflected in the food price that we see, which is indeed a problem, and so we can influence these prices, plus make sure that we have food supplies. In the budget, we also foresee extra money for food supplies and cereals to be prepared when crises get worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U416	The second additional question. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U417	Honourable speaker! Prime Minister! My question on the supplementary budget would be about teaching the Estonian language, namely about teaching war refugees. I know that there is a wide range of resources for this, that schools will be able to recognise [the money] for giving children in Ukraine, but I am interested in adult learning. If I have understood correctly, the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for this, has now provided for teaching the Estonian language at A1 level to some 10,000 people who have received temporary protection, but the interest is actually very high. What happens when this amount is exhausted, people want to learn more Estonian and want to go to higher levels to learn more Estonian? Have I misunderstood that this amount is currently only intended for 10,000 adults who have received temporary protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U418	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U419	Yeah, thanks! We really have two different sides. One is the teaching of children, the resources of the Ministry of Education and Research, and here we really need to create additional early childhood education, because 10% of the total number of Ukrainian war refugees is at the age of needing early childhood education. That is where we will allocate EUR 16.26 million. Additional schools in general education represent 25% of the total number of refugees, with an additional €44.88 million in higher education, and additional places in vocational education that need to be created. Now, language learning for adults is the other half. The Ministry of Education and Research receives 6.54 million euros in additional training for adult Estonian language teachers, precisely so that we have teachers who can also teach Estonian to adults. The training of 200 teachers has been taken into account, as well as the creation of an e-learning course for language clicks for beginners in Ukrainian, and additional resources have been created for this. In addition, the Ministry of Culture also has 4.6 million euros to implement the adaptation programme and 4.5 million euros to offer Estonian language learning. But as you well know, these things aren't gonna be behind the money. What is positive is that with the arrival of war refugees, our foreign-language residents have also shown more interest in learning the Estonian language. But the problem is very much the lack of teachers, and the lack of teachers, in turn, is linked to the salaries and conditions of teachers. These are all actually state budget needs and, unfortunately, teachers really do not come up overnight, although the Ministry of Education and Research provides resources for this, provides programmes, but it must also be motivating. I hope that this will bring more Estonian language teachers who can help at all levels so that we have people in Estonia who are actively using the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U420	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U421	Dear colleagues, now the registered issues are over. I beg you, sign up if you would like to ask, and I have a very big request that you tell me right at the beginning of the question who is going to be asked about this matter from the members of the government. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U422	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour! Suddenly you have something nice and good to say to the people in the hall and listening through the TV bridge, some good news about health care or work. Otherwise, you're just sitting here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U423	Tanel swing, please! The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U424	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt! A very interesting question was raised. There's always good news. From the health and work perspective, it can be said that the employment rate of Estonian residents is higher than the forecast and that the unemployment rate of Estonian residents today is even lower than that of permanent residents when, for example, it was at the same time a year ago, despite the crisis. At the same time, it is also true that, as a result of the arrival of war refugees, the number of general unemployment as a whole has increased somewhat, but we also see a positive trend here: to date, nearly 4 000 war refugees have also found jobs and a third of those of working age who have received temporary protection have found employment. So we can see that, just like the government's goal, and I think that the people who come here too, have been to provide not only the necessary services in the field of health, social affairs and education, but also to enable people to find a job. We see that these numbers grow every week, and the war refugees who come here find suitable jobs. In the field of health, if you ask for the latest better news, it is certainly that the COVID-19 pandemic is reaching a green level in Estonia. Today we're at the notionally yellow level, because there were a little over 100 other patients in hospitals as of Monday. But right now, these trends are moving clearly downwards. So we're going to meet the green level of summer here, which means we're going to be the lowest measure of the risk matrix, both in terms of the rate of infection and the need for hospital treatment. This is undoubtedly positive news. This is where my recognition goes, and thanks to all the people of Estonia who, in turn, have allowed themselves to be vaccinated, have made an effectiveness dose, thereby ensuring better protection for themselves and also helping to avoid the overload of the health sector. Nevertheless, of course, we are preparing intensively for the autumn and winter, a new pandemic. There should be a long plan for COVID in the government debate tomorrow. The State Chancellery, the Ministry of Social Affairs and other parties have prepared it to bring these two-year experiences and the main proposals and thoughts from scientists, health actors as well as from the wider world in order to be as prepared as possible for new waves. Perhaps in the area of health, why I was talking about COVID, the lower the numbers, the more we can provide scheduled treatment, the more institutions can deliver the necessary health services. For some time now, it can be said that there are basically no restrictions on the availability of scheduled treatment. Healthcare workers can take action with patients who may have had some surgeries waiting a long time ago. Of course, also through the Health Insurance Fund, we are able to channel this resource and money precisely there, because there is no need to deal with emergency outbreaks or the medical needs of these patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U425	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U426	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo! The question is for you. It is a question of cooperation between local governments and the state. With regard to war refugees, local authorities have a lot of additional activities and burdens and other problems. It's just, how do you feel about how you and local authorities have gone about this problem or rather solving the problem in cooperation? And when you do, [speak] a little bit about concluding administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U427	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U428	Thank you very much for your question. We have wished to conclude administrative agreements with local authorities on the basis of the obligation given to us as a state alien under the law on granting international protection. According to this law, six times the income support rate, the start-up benefit, the need-based support. Under the current law, this is a possible compensation of up to EUR 900. If the State Budget Act is adopted today with improvements, then the limit on income support will rise and the calculation will be 1200 euros. We have been negotiating with local authorities for some time. It is true that when it comes to assigning tasks to local authorities, it is always necessary to take into account the additional administrative costs or administrative procedures that the local authority must carry out. After all, here we are dealing with a situation where, unexpectedly, many people have come to us in a short time. When we normally talk about up to 60 beneficiaries of international protection a year, whom we have assisted and supported, there are now several tens of thousands of them, to whom urgent assistance must be provided. I mean, there's a lot of procedures to do. This is how we have reached an agreement with all the local authorities last Friday. I have confirmation from both the municipality of Tartu and Tallinn that they have started to prepare to take the matter to the council in order to obtain the necessary signature and start paying out the benefits after the adoption of the additional budget. As you understand, all the expenditure we have made for war refugees today is largely from the resources of the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Social Insurance Board's own budget, in the hope that the additional budget will be adopted. That is why there is also this 17-million-dollar planned cost here, assuming that all war refugees also use this support. There may also be a question as to why it is possible to ask for such support or compensation. For starting a lease, deposit, first month rent, broker fee. In fact, local authorities may also use this resource to adapt their own apartments, as well as to acquire essential furniture items. In general, this allowance is not paid to war refugees but paid to the lessor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U429	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U430	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Tanel Kiik! I have a question for you. And I will continue with the last sentence of your previous answer, where you said very positively and optimisticly that hospitals can now offer this regular, daily treatment to those who may have had to be patient and wait. Please, would you be more specific about whether hospitals are now in this emergency situation, perhaps I am not using the right epithet, or what the timetable is in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U431	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U432	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Today we are officially still in a health emergency, but in reality we are clearly moving out of there. Indeed, the Health Board has also made plans to replace this emergency with an emergency threat, which means that we are prepared to re-establish it if necessary, to react, but this crisis is no longer so acute. I think that the achievement of this same green scenario is, in fact, an adequate measure approved by the government in cooperation with the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board in assessing the level of risk. But speaking of the view of the daily work of hospitals, having also communicated with many hospital managers, as well as with the association of family doctors, [I have learned that in the field of health care, this pandemic is not very disturbing at present. In particular, preparation for the future is being carried out, i.e. the coverage of vaccination will be reviewed, for example, the supply of personal protective equipment, as well as plans for the construction of insulation rooms, approved by REACT-EU, EU funds. Of course, they keep an eye on new drugs. There are currently a number of medicines in hospitals, but there are also joint procurement and negotiations of certain prescription medicines available at the first level. The first marketing authorisations have actually been issued in Europe, so in principle wholesalers can bring them to the country themselves if they wish. So in this view, too, the situation has improved. As always in health care, each hospital's own interest is, on the one hand, in supporting human health and, on the other hand, in providing people with as much treatment as possible in terms of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and the performance of their contract. This is indeed being done today in order to make up for operations that have been postponed earlier, and precisely in the autumn and winter views, to make preparations so that such restrictions are not needed. One concrete example that has contributed significantly is also the difference in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. If in the past, especially in the early stages, both the state and the health care system reacted very strongly, for example with restrictions on scheduled treatment and the special insulation of COVID patients in the view that entire departments could be shut down, if there were a few infected patients there, then work is now actually going on to ensure that if it is not possible to accommodate people in conventional wards of infection, they can be isolated as much as possible within other departments without closure of the department as a whole. It's in a long view, you can say, a common sense and a single possible approach. Otherwise, we will create a situation where, in each new pandemic wave, planned treatment needs to be severely restricted again and all other people with their acute health concerns, which may be even more dangerous to their health than COVID-19 disease, may be left untreated or delayed. So in this view, I am moderately optimistic, but of course, as I said before in the first response, the keyword is the coverage of vaccination, the highest possible level, including the use of an effectiveness dose, particularly the risk groups, but the population as a whole, so that the next pandemic wave should be as painless as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U433	Thank you! I will stop dealing with this issue. Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U434	Thank you. Good manager! Prime Minister! I have a question about security. As we know yesterday, the Finns and the Swedes finally decided to make a statement to join NATO. Perhaps you could tell me more about how this process is going to work now? When should the Estonian Parliament discuss this, and what opportunities do NATO Member States have to influence and negotiate with countries that do not want Finland and Sweden to join NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U435	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U436	Thank you. This is really good news for Finland and Sweden as well as for the entire region. Certainly Finland and Sweden's historic decisions to change this security policy, as they have been holding so far, especially Sweden, which has been neutral for a very long time, still decides to join this NATO, shows that Russia's actions have led all countries to think about how to defend themselves. It is clear that, while our great NATO allies have also said that we are defending every inch of NATO territory, countries that do not belong to NATO are also thinking. I have assured both the Prime Minister of Finland and the Prime Minister of Sweden that Estonia is their greatest friend in NATO, and we will do everything to ensure that these processes go quickly. How does this process usually work? This is so that this application for accession is now signed, the ambassadors should take a decision and, once the decision has been adopted, it will be sent to all parliaments for ratification. It has been said that Turkey is not in favour of this accession. Consequently, they must also be given time to discuss it. For us here, perhaps everything is really clear, we have followed this process very closely, and for us the accession of Finland and Sweden is absolutely positive. However, some other NATO Member States and NATO have 30 Member States that need more time to discuss. I have also studied here that ratification is carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. And it has its own deadlines, just as democracy has, that there are times for debate, and that is what is happening at two readings. But the Chairman of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has confirmed that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is ready to meet in the summer. I believe that the Riigikogu is also ready to do this, because it is in our interest that these decisions can be adopted quickly. We have a summit in Madrid at the end of June and it would also be good to get strong messages from there not only about Finland and Sweden joining, but actually also about strengthening our own defence, which we have been talking about for a long time and for which we have been working for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U437	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will now try to take a few issues that have not been addressed today. I'm asking about war refugees. The Korona era showed that the real need for a plan, the need for continuous monitoring of the situation, the need for adjustments, but also for cooperation, such as with local authorities, was very important. Now that 38000 war refugees have reached us and an additional budget is planned that 50000 will reach Estonia this year, or Estonia, what about managing this situation and monitoring it? How often does the government get reviews? Which bottlenecks have been identified, are they in accommodation, language training, schooling or access to health services? Who is responsible for resolving them? And what is this model of cooperation working with local authorities now, or what is this cooperation with local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U439	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U440	Thank you. That's a good question. From every crisis we learn something, and if we do these lessons well, we will actually go to the next crisis stronger. Why I say this is that, in the health crisis, regional crisis committees, led by the Rescue Board, with local authorities and with this information channel, worked very well. COVID, which is why we all moved to video meetings, has actually provided an excellent opportunity to communicate at government level, at local government level, to exchange this information and to quickly receive feedback on what problem areas. Now, how often do we get reviews? We have now had a government cabinet meeting twice a week where we discuss security issues and, among other things, refugees. We constantly get an overview of how many refugees we have and what these concerns are. Now, this refugee crisis is... We had an emergency, and the head of the emergency was Police and Border Guard. Last week, we gave the Police and Border Guard Board the general nod that this emergency situation has now ended because the flow of refugees is no longer so great. We now have new concerns, and they are very much related to the social sector. This is why the management staff of the refugee crisis moved under the Social Security Offices and it is being watched when we talk about accommodations, especially long-term accommodation, and concerns about refugees. One thing I want to emphasise in particular is the education of children. A lot of refugees have come here, but most of them want to go back and think they can go back pretty soon. This means that children have studied in Ukraine as part of digital learning or distance learning, which indeed, as the Minister of Education told us, works quite well and is very well organised, this e-learning. But our concern is that we can still learn about these children and educational needs early enough, because if we find out in August, we will not be able to create these school places, we will need to know them now in May and June, which areas these children are in, where and at which levels we need to create additional school places, so that we know how to be ready. So we also communicate very closely with the Ukrainian embassy, so that this information reaches the local Ukrainians and that we do not have such bottle necks and problems in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U441	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U442	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. My question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige. I'm asking you about the COVID-19 plan. You also said before in your reply to the previous question that the coverage of vaccination would be reviewed. When you look at the Health Board's bill, 64% of those who have completed the vaccination course are now in fact, and I find it particularly worrying that only 34% have received an effective dose. Last week, in the Ethics Committee of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, I heard from the hospital's concerns that very many hospital staff are not motivated to do exactly this third dose of effectiveness. What can really be foreseen in this COVID plan so that we don't lose time, so that summer doesn't go wrong again, so to speak, and they don't find out later that it's a problem? What are we going to do now in order to get these vaccination numbers back to the targets we set ourselves and to make it clear to people that this is essential?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U443	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U444	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Member of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna start once last summer. I do not quite agree with this approach, which has been repeatedly said that nothing was done in the summer. Actually, they did a lot both summers. But the truth is that every time this pandemic has come from a slightly new angle, it has come with new problems, it has come with new strains, and inevitably the preparations that were made helped to alleviate it, but it can always be said that further things would have been done in retrospect. Well, for example, during the previous summer, vaccination coverage increased by more than 20% in society as a whole. Maybe in public, it's like you haven't even been vaccinated. In fact, this rise was still quite fast at the time, spring, summer, autumn was actually where this pace went down, because just the majority of the population had used their vaccination option by then, and the smaller part that had not yet done it has been more convincing, let's say this. They have needed more work through family doctors, hospitals, employers, and also through public communication. How to increase vaccination coverage? If we start with health professionals, I have heard that concern myself. Of course, the vast majority here have actually done both the first dose, the second dose as well as the effectiveness dose, but there are also those who, for example, are currently assessing to see if there is still some sort of modified vaccine that has been discussed a lot. If you remember, at the beginning of the Omicron wave, manufacturers actually issued a message that perhaps by the beginning of spring there will be a special vaccine, today in practice we will use the same vaccines as before. Whether or not they really exist now for a new wave, this will be revealed during the summer. Will there be real deliveries of new, adapted vaccines, and it will be possible to make this dose of effectiveness against a new vaccine, for whom then the third, for whom the fourth dose, we will see it. But in any case, the work to increase the coverage of the dose will continue with family doctors, hospitals, contacts with local authorities, vaccination coordinators and media campaigns. In the case of the media, for example, there has been a failure in many ways to deal with all kinds of procurement issues, which is quite a complex process, and even financial allocations have been made, but the use of money and campaigns have often been behind the fact that there are so many technical details here that have unfortunately proved to be an obstacle. We hope that these issues will also be resolved by autumn at the latest. This autumn will certainly require a new additional campaign where, I think, the focus will be on the risk groups, but also, of course, on the wider population. In the case of risk groups, we offer an opportunity to vaccinate against both influenza and COVID-19, because in reality we still see today that both of them cause considerable hospital and mortality. Both vaccines can be obtained free of charge, especially for the elderly. COVID is currently available free of charge to everyone, which is right for the elderly 65+, and nursing homes are the places where today, from October of this year, we have offered free vaccination, in the case of nursing homes a little earlier, and we will also offer in the coming year to protect those who are most in need of protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U445	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U446	Thank you, Mr President. My question is to the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, still on the Corona issues. The good news is that we have recovered from the availability of conventional care for a moment. But autumn approaches, a new wave is coming. And for the sake of the pertinence of each particular hospital, it is very important how it is possible to sort and place in the hospital the people suspected of corona and the COVID patients. Does the Ministry have an overview of the number of wards and insulators in our hospitals across Estonia for the treatment of infectious patients?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U447	Thank you. The usual number, which has been used in separate cases of infection, has been around 100. But in COVID's time, we have significantly increased this at the expense of other departments. But as you know very well as a person familiar with health, the main concern for increasing the number of wards is not physical space, but health professionals. Perhaps increasing the possibility of isolation, for example, in isolation, at the expense of one department in general means that health professionals who may have dealt with patients in another field are forced to deal with the treatment of infected patients, and then other patients will be given less attention. We are also planning to make 150 isolation rooms for Estonian hospitals out of European Union money. They asked me about the good news earlier. But speaking of bad news, the bad news is that we are seeing a very clear increase in the price here, too, in the construction of isolation rooms. My clear priority is to complete them, to support hospitals here from REACT-EU resources, if necessary from the state budget, if we can agree on this at government level, because I think they will be needed anyway, whether in the case of a COVID pandemic or in the case of future pandemics, so that we do not look back in time and think that one or another wrong decision was made in 2022, thinking that the pandemic has ended as if or in a light phase. In practice, increasing the number of isolation rooms would facilitate the same potentially restructuring of these hospitals so that entire departments would not have to be closed, reorganised, for example in the event of the spread of future strains, perhaps even more dangerous, or entirely new infectious diseases. Also, when we are talking about dealing with infectious patients, the important thing, as I have pointed out, is the staff. Here we have agreed on a consensus agreement, which means increasing the number of nurses among the health education actors, not only by maintaining the level raised in the past, but by further raising it. Maybe we need to increase this reception to 700. And in the case of other health professionals, we should have reached 12,000 by 2030 from the current number of nurses to 8500. It would still be a significant increase. Of course, this also requires additional funding for health care, so that competitive pay can also be provided. And just recently, we also agreed to increase the number of residencys of the University of Tartu in various disciplines, in order to reduce this deficit here too. It is certainly now a matter of the coming months, but perhaps also of the year, of negotiating collective agreements, so that, in the current very rapid rise in prices, a dignified and fair pay for health workers, which is also competitive with our northern neighbour, and at the same time, of course, the necessary budgetary resources for this would be guaranteed in the Health Insurance Fund, so that the wage increase of health workers can be guaranteed and ideally increased access to health care for the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U448	Thank you. I'd like to thank all my colleagues for asking. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for responding. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U449	Good fellows! Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 15th working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday and first ask for a chair of the Riigikogu for those who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Jaak White, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U450	Ladies and gentlemen, I am again honoured to pass on, on behalf of the EKRE Group, the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act, which has been developed to comply with the Estonian Constitution, according to which the Republic of Estonia has been created to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The Constitution, however, is threatened by the current mass immigration, which is of the same magnitude as in the last decade of the Soviet occupation. According to Statistics Estonia, which became public last week, Estonia was...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U451	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and honor those colleagues who want to hear the waitress. I'm asking for silence in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U452	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat, according to Statistics Estonia's data that became public last week, 4900 Ukrainian and Russian citizens settled permanently in Estonia in 2021, i.e. before Russia's attack on Ukraine, plus 3,500 citizens, mainly from Asian and African countries, while 1,400 Russian and Ukrainian citizens and 1,200 Asian and African nationals left. More than 5800 citizens of these countries survived to Estonia than they left. This means that the proportion of Estonians and the proportion of Estonian-speaking persons will fall. So if we want to comply with the Constitution, we need to regulate immigration wisely, and that is what this bill wants to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U453	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U454	76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U455	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the Social Democratic Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Riigikogu, and the Penal Code, Family Law and Civil Procedure Code Amendment Act 601 (amendment of the age limit of sexual self-determination and marriage) initiated by the Government of the Republic. And for information, good colleagues, this vote requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I open negotiations and ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhof for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U456	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! No one can remember exactly where the sexual self-determination clause for 14-year-olds appeared in our laws. It was 1992, a time when we tried to be paduliber. The raising of this age line has also been discussed several times in the Riigikogu, 2011 and 2013, in particular on the initiative of the Child Protection League, until this debate was gradually suppressed. Discouragement is of little use. All of us, the legislators, the government and society as a whole, must do our utmost to fight evil. Unfortunately, a series of teenage horrors had to rise to the surface before we understood the seriousness of the problem. Some time ago, the ugly story of a young girl's soccer coach and a minor growing boy's sexual relations unleashed an entire avalanche. A number of similar cases have been evident. Without delay, judgmental reactions also appeared. Today, coalition and opposition parties have agreed that minors must be better protected against sexual abuse. At the beginning of last year...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U457	Good waitress, I apologize to you. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. There are two ways: either we keep our voices down and go forward with the hearing, or another way of taking a break, we can talk our stories, and then we can move on. I have a request that we be quieter in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U458	At the beginning of last year, both the Social Democrats and the EKRE submitted their draft amendments to the Penal Code to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. At the end of the year, the Committee on Legal Affairs arrived at the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. As a result of the good cooperation between Parliament's coalition and opposition parties, we have merged three drafts and will soon be voting on the joint draft of the Government of the Republic, the Socialists and the EKRE. According to the Penal Code, joining an adult with a person under the age of 14 is punishable by up to five years imprisonment today. The proposal of the Socialists, the EKRE and the Government of the Republic is to increase the age of sexual self-determination to 16 years of age, as is the case in neighbouring countries, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. It must be made clear to everyone that an adult is responsible for the relationship between a child and an adult and that entering into sex with a person under the age of 16 must become a sexual offence. The infringer of this ban could be punished by imprisonment in the future. In order to protect children from sexual abuse, we have also planned in the draft in such a way that sanctions are raised in the Penal Code. For example, sexually or otherwise sexually committed acts of childhood here we raise sanction rates from five to eight years of age when they are under 14. If 14 to 16, then the sentence will be five years in the future. We also raise the penalty rate for the purchase of sex under the bill in situations where the child is younger than 14 years of age. The current law provides for imprisonment of up to five years, with eight years in prison. We know that this is just one aspect of a highly sensitive subject. In order not to raise more criminals, we also argued in the Committee on Legal Affairs that the so-called buffer area was not punishable by a young adult... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U459	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U460	... sexual relations with a minor of 14 to 15 years of age if their age difference is up to five years. Thus, consensual sexual relations with 14-year-olds up to 19 years of age and 15-year-olds up to 20 years of age are allowed. No limitation shall be imposed from the age of 16. After all, we must be concerned about uncertain and inexperienced youths who can be abused by an adult. When a young person under 18 is inclined to engage in sexual activity through the use of coercion, force, threat or influence, this is a crime and it has been stated in our laws since 2013. Speaking of a little bit more about the current protection of the law, any activity involving sexual undertone is considered, in any case, a child younger than ten years of age to be an unintelligible child. The intimate relations between our peers, which take place with mutual consent and with security, must certainly not be ridiculed or disgraced. And speaking of a joint bill, the joint bill also amends the provision of the family law, which, with the permission of the court, gave the right to exceptionally marry from the age of 15. The exceptional marriages of minors will be annulled and only adults will be able to marry in the future. The date of entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 November. Its date of entry into force may be disputed as to whether it should be 1 November or earlier. I personally in the Commission thought that it should enter into force immediately, that the party that is going on today should be stopped, but the representatives of the government came up with arguments, and they are working on the fact that communication work is actually needed. The Social Democrats call for the draft to be supported and we believe that we will come to working solutions this time with goodwill and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U461	Thank you. I'll just make one clarification. You mentioned several times that the draft has been initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Government of the Republic. The name of Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid must also be added. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Anti Polandmets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U462	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, the most important thing. Of course we support the draft. It's been in our interest a long time ago, since the last term. We came up with this before the extremely ugly incident with the football coach, which, you could say, was a useful crisis, an eye-opening crisis for many. Perhaps through this event we have reached a consensus that does not happen every day in this Chamber on such a sensitive issue. There is also a plea because we were not foresighted. It's better to anticipate things than solve them on a case-by-case basis. Now there's a ugly story in the press. But in fact, the problem was up for decades. And for ignoring it, the reproach is well founded. Now, if we're gonna take it together nicely, then you can say that the end is good, all good. But at the same time, this law itself needs to be tested in life as to whether this Romeo and Julia clause is sufficient, whether it is appropriate. Indeed, there is a need for the opinion of practitioners here in a few years' time. Nevertheless, it is an exponential improvement that we are going to take up the subject. A few days ago, like other members of the Riigikogu, I received a reprimanding letter from a foreigner who found that, oh, now we are going to the same wave with the Eastern European countries. I don't think so. In this sense, it is very bad to be on the same wave with countries where our very low age was abused and would have been further abused. So I hope the signal we're sending out is serious. Perhaps foresight is the task that, as politicians, should be assigned to us, what the voters want from us, be it the crisis in Ukraine, be it the protection of young people and children, be it any other matter. In any case, a common section has been found and we can move on to the subject. And I see that the EKRE has already been on the right track with its initiative in its previous composition. I see that the Social Democrats also woke up on the subject in time. But it's never too late. So I would like us to agree on the vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U463	Thank you. There are no more calls, I will close the negotiations and we will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 601. Good fellows! Draft 601 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. I will put draft 601 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U464	With the result of 80, there are no opposers and no impartial parties, the draft law amending the Penal Code, Family Act and Civil Procedure Code of the Social Democratic Party, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid and the Government of the Republic have been adopted as 601 law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U465	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 477 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U466	With the result of 57 votes in favour, 14 against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 477 laws. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U467	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the Police and Border Guard Act and on the amendment of the State Border Act 518. Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 518 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U468	With the result of 77 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act 518 has been adopted by the Government of the Republic as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U469	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 543 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U470	With the result of 58 votes against 14, no abstentions, the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 543 law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U471	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. We are going to prepare the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you! I will put draft 551 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U472	With the result of 61 votes against 16, no abstentions, the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law 551. That concludes the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U473	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the draft Act 520 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation and termination of the Protection Agreement, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. And I am pleased to welcome Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, already in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U474	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the law is necessary to ensure that investors in all the Member States of the European Union are treated equally. The protection of Estonian investors is not reduced when the Act is passed, and the equal treatment of Estonian and Austrian investments and investors will continue to be ensured by the law of the European Union. The first reading of the bill was completed on April 13 of the year in hand. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 28 April 2022 at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus at its meeting on 9 May to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 520 be put on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session on Wednesday 18 May, to conclude the second reading and to hold the final vote. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U475	Good waitress, thank you! No questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation either. There were no amendments to the 520 bill, and the request of the commission is also for us to have a final vote. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I will put draft 520 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U476	With the result of 74 votes against and no abstentions, draft Act 520 on ratification of the Agreement to facilitate and terminate the Agreement on Investment and Protection between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, has been adopted as a law. Our sixth item is closed. Good fellows! I'll take the manager's break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U477	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. We are at the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Decision of the Parliament on Proposal for the Government of the Republic, tabled by the Isamaa Group. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U478	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the delay, but since this is such an important impact on the competitiveness of the Estonian economy and on consumers, it was important at the last moment to specify all the details in order to provide Members with a comprehensive and comprehensive view of this circle of problems. Now, this is not the first initiative before the High Chamber of Parliament to address the need for an immediate and full-scale reform of the electricity market in Estonia. The coalition did not support this proposal to the Government of the Republic at the beginning of this year. The government's motives were linked to the fact that all the surge in electricity prices and inflation were actually short-term. As we have seen today from international forecasts, this is a deeply misleading and therefore very disturbing fact. The inflation that is currently taking place is regrettably not short-term. The impact of this inflation is total. We can see that Estonia's inflation rate has reached its highest level in Europe: the reference period April 2021 versus April 2022 18.8%. And the central effect of this so-exploited inflation is on energy carriers. It is only worth looking at the inflation of electricity, i.e. the increase, the comparison over the reference period in an annual perspective. We see an increase of 119% in the annual reference period for electricity. Now, what situation awaits us in the future? According to experts, future contributions to the gas price of EUR 90+ per megawatt hour are already being made for the next heating period. And if we take into account the analysts' estimate that the gas reference price can also predict the price of electricity in the Nord Pool system, then this means that, prognostically and in turn, companies are going to make transactions, predictable transactions, in fact, to shape the market during the next heating period, the electricity price of the next heating period in the Nord Pool system is at least on the same level as it had gone during the heating period during this price shock period. I would like to remind you that if the reference base for electricity affecting the price in the Nord Pool system is the price of gas, then the European gas price for the first quarter of the year was 92 euros per megawatt-hour. And, of course, we must take into account that the supply of electricity will actually decrease in the Nord Pool system in the coming heating period. And that means that this will lead to additional price pressure. Consequently, we are in a situation where, firstly, the extremely high price of electricity will last for the next heating period. Secondly, this energy price will undoubtedly have a paralysing effect on domestic consumers and, of course, it will also have a paralysing effect on the competitiveness of our companies. Indrek Neivelt has brought a figure that is not figurative, but literally real. Indeed, when looking at the price horizons of the first quarter, the price of electricity in the Nord Pool system was twice as low as in Estonia. Let's put it in context. This means that, in reality, the competitiveness of our economy is severely paralyzed, not only by comparison with third countries outside the European Union, but also within the European Union. Similarly, people's livelihoods are severely paralyzed by putting income levels in the context that are significantly higher in the Kingdom of Sweden than in Estonia, but for this important input, the electricity and heating costs are paid by people at significantly higher prices. We are an energy-based civilization as a civilization. Everyone's researching computers and phones, I'm watching, in this room, and you can imagine when the electricity deficit is growing. This significantly hampers the real functioning of society. And secondly, in our region, given our temperature, it is not possible to organise human activities in reality without heating. In this context, the Isamaa Group has initiated a proposal for a reform of the electricity market, the elements of which, the basic elements, are briefly as follows. First, to oblige the incumbent electricity producer, in Estonia's context, then Eesti Energia, to offer an off-exchange electricity package for small consumers. Secondly, its price is derived from the cost of production and reasonable profit at the coordinated price of the Competition Authority. And thirdly, to release our consumers from this schizophrenic and insane carbon quota system, the speculative quota system in pricing, the principle that the state will repay the energy producer. This means that the payment of the CO2 emission trading units necessary for the production of this OTC electricity will be compensated to the producer, which will make the price of this electricity cheaper. And when we ask how much this price is going to be, we can talk prognostically about 50 euros [for megawatt]. At the moment, we are looking at, for example, electricity sellers who offer a fixed package. The government's representatives spread this kind of shady, saying that the shock of the price of electricity is no longer a problem, everyone can very positively fix these packages. I'm sorry! Members on computers, look at the price level it is offered, a fixed package: EUR 150 plus! We are talking about the price of 50 euros. And what does that mean? This means that we have freed small consumers, all domestic and smaller businesses from excessive CO2 burdens in a speculative market, and secondly, we have freed our consumers from this market distortion. A very simple and schematic logic based on the rules of the market economy. Now, who remembers, last autumn, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, announced with great accord that he would initiate a speculative reform of CO2 emissions trading units. It's been six months. It's been eight months. In the Commission, I asked the representatives of the ministry what the result is, where the proposal is. And the answer is round zero. There is nothing, nothing has been reached, nothing has been achieved. On the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Estonia adopted a position with the coalition's votes: we welcome the reform of CO2 emissions trading units; we consider the functioning of this market to be reasonable. Cute coalition representatives! With your hands, you see, you actually welcome this speculative price of electricity. Moreover, we also adopted these positions on the European Union climate package, which will substantially increase the price of emissions trading units on this market, forcing major sectors to participate in the emissions trade, including housing. And in this context, of course, this means an increase in the price of CO2. So, with our hands, we are doing this now, we are raising the European Union's negotiations, we are amplifying the shock of electricity prices in a so-called strategic perspective. The representatives of the government raised a number of self-evident false claims about this draft. Firstly, that it is State aid and that the rules of the European Union do not allow it. Of course they do! A number of EU countries have not included their small consumers in the stock exchange system. I can give you France, for example. In France based on nuclear electricity, no one is demanding from the hysterical French Government that domestic consumers should be placed on the stock market at the moment. Lithuania has not taken its domestic customers to any stock exchange system in the Nord Pool system. No one has said that this is contrary to any state aid rules. Secondly, there was a false argument that we would not then be able to use the proceeds of the emissions trade in the state budget to compensate for groups with a so-called less-insured or fragile market situation, i.e. by doing so, to pay off this currency unit of speculative CO2 emissions, or, in fact, by acting in a zero cycle, we are not taking this money away from them. This is an obvious lie. Of course, this can be done, at least to the extent of 50%, which is the autonomy of the State under the current directive, and I think it can also be interpreted 100%, because it is precisely the allocation of this money to the less-insured groups that is intended to meet the objectives of this additional 50% targeted green revolution, the climate objectives. Government representatives said it couldn't be done. This is an obvious lie. I would like to give you an example: just those subsidies that were paid out in the previous heating period, which ended at the end of March. Estonia is one of the exceptional countries here, where all mitigation measures due to the energy shock were completed as of March. We are unique in the way we have managed to achieve 19% inflation. This is not just because of the circumstances and our geographical position, but also because of the very clear and systematic inspiration of the political choices of the country and the political choices of the government. The right thing is what the government representatives said is that, for the future, the European Commission, in the negotiations on the EU's 2050 climate package, has proposed that any national autonomy for the use of climate trade emissions money be lost from the budget and that everything is centrally directed towards climate objectives. It has been set up by the Commission. Estonia actually welcomes this. We also had a Parliament declaration on this table so that it would not be considered reasonable and Estonia would retain its budgetary autonomy on these issues. The coalition's vote didn't support it. All the steps that we can actually take to alleviate the energy shock with the means allowed by European Union law, with our own fiscal autonomy, have systematically killed this government coalition. And what is more: he actually wants to amplify this shock even more if we are thinking about the strategic objectives that have been set for the realisation of the European Union's climate package. So, in short, the implementation of this draft decision is possible in the short term. According to the Competition Authority, it is perfectly legitimate and conceivable, and it depends only on the political will of our country, whether or not to do so. We have a new heating season ahead of us. And the government coalition seems to have actually given up on this extra budget, this mess we're going to deal with here, and said that the people can handle themselves. The solution is to pay EUR 50 to persons under the age of 18 and to persons under the age of one month. This is in no way a serious measure in the context of the multiplicity of European measures being taken to alleviate the inflation drama. This inflation is eating up our people's money, real income. The representatives of the government coalition proudly read the press releases that were in the last month's pension increase. The real real income for older people will fall at least 10% this year. Statistics Estonia has provided a clear analysis of the impact of inflation on the various income sectors in relation to the proportion of people's consumption basket. And if we have 18.8% in April 2021 versus April 2022, then in fact this number is about 50% higher in the lowest payoff. It's a reality. And no expert on the subject of Monday's debates I can inform Parliament here, no forecast of a decline in inflation. We've reached a new price plateau. Well, the Ministry of Finance is still assessing the situation, but it's 12.7%, if it was the exact number, I might be wrong about the decimal place. And that means that the inflation in 2023 is projected to be several percent higher than that plateau. So, respectable representative of the people, it is time to stand up and say that we are capable of defending the competitiveness of our economies in this crisis and of creating some kind of predictable stability in such an important input for people to cope with, as is the price of electricity. And this is not some left pole or communism, as it has been said here, the imposition of a state-level electricity price. No, it's not! This is actually the release of our small consumers from this crazy carbon quota speculative system, and secondly, it is from this stock exchange system, which does not really work on the stock exchange, forgive us, the price of Estonian electricity twice as much in the first quarter as in Sweden, well, which the stock exchange does that as an alternative to this dictatorship. Moreover, I stress that this is freedom of choice, just like we did the pension reform: who is an enthusiast for the CO2 emissions trade, who is a stock exchange enthusiast, sit in this stock market package, use all the foreseeable benefits. So, respectable representative of the people, I ask you to support this important step. This is a real and real measure of how to reduce inflation, control, frame electricity prices rationally, not some ridiculous one-off payment of EUR 50. Thank you, my dear Members.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U479	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U480	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Well, it's not that bad. We remember this Christmas time, January, when all members of the Riigikogu went to charge their own and family battery banks, who had a portable washing machine with them, who used this air-based fryer to cook good food for the homes. So there are solutions. This [question], of course, is the way the common people can cope, so we must invite more of them to these excursions so that they too can be loaded with the battery banks of their own family. But one question is what's left. If people want to be environmentally friendly and give up electricity consumption, then we have this diabolical amperage. Has the government coalition thought that we could free people from such an obstacle as amperage? We understand that at this point there are many families who are in training at the Sii. They stay in the tent and they don't use [electricity], but the amperage still forces them to be connected to some extent. Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U481	Thank you. No, the representatives of the government coalition are rather dullly ignoring all measures that would allow regulatory steps to lower electricity prices. Let this be a reduction in VAT, be it a change in the pricing elements of various other tax measures, including this package, at the regulatory level of the Energy Market Act. This fact is glowing. In fact, it has been said quite cynically that the state earns from the price of high electricity, first, through VAT revenue, second, through the dividends of Eesti Energia, through record dividends. Quite confidently, the entire government has thrown away the protection of the dividends of Eesti Energia, claiming that it is certainly not considered appropriate to implement measures that would be treated as a tax refund in fact or in economic terms for consumers for the additional money taken away from it. I do not think we have understood the scale of this crisis. At least for those who decide, the scale of this crisis has not arrived at the macro-level of the economic environment. In a situation in which Lithuania adopts a budget of several billion euros, including security aspects, but also by addressing inflation as a central issue, when I open our extra budget, which we are going to work on today, with this glorious document, I will not find any measures to control this inflation, even though experts, economists, have proposed a series of emergency measures that other European countries have used and which we talked about in the autumn. On the contrary, our country is currently structured in the government's view with the logic of reverse inflation multiplicator. One thing is that we have higher energy prices, we tax it higher, and that means that this, in turn, will further boost inflation. My question today is to the government, which does not like to talk about it: do you realise that this inflation could go over to hyperinflation, where we will no longer be able to control if we do not use any measures to control inflationary pressures in the medium term? This situation, where we have managed to reduce the value of money so exponentially, we have in no way reached a certain plateau, and that means that this plateau is expected to be further enhanced. The salaries of Members of Parliament and the salaries of ministers I know the answer, it is not something that is actually ashamed of. After all, ministers' salaries are actually linked to the cost of living according to the coefficient. Consequently, the higher the inflation, the higher the wages. But with this Marie Antoinette philosophy, forgive me, your country cannot be managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U482	Thank you. Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U483	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! In your report, you spoke of a fuck-up created by the Government of the Republic. Can you define what a screwup is? And please explain where this screw-up has been made and worked?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U484	Thank you, Ülle, as always for the problem of moisture. I share that assessment of screw-up. The question is that I am thinking of an extra budget, not of the lines that are in this budget, but of the screw-up I call those things that are not there. In the extra budget, I would have expected to see a real financial contribution to increasing our own defence capabilities. I'm sorry, in the budget, we're excluding VAT at EUR 6 million for the development of anti-tank capability. 6 million euros! This is not even the limit of error in the budget of the Ministry of Defence at the decimal place, which is also discussed in the planning of defence investments. Look what the United States Department of Defense did! Inflation has also reached the United States. More important inflation has also reached the US defence budget in view of the exponential rise in the prices of weapons systems. And, of course, an additional anti-inflationary package was envisaged in the United States so that the plan to develop the state's defence capabilities would not be reduced. In the current inflationary situation, honourable Members, we actually do have a real thing when we look at the financial figures, a rapid surge in the defence budget under our eyes, in reality. And we are not even talking about compensating it now, as the United States did correctly with the extra appropriations for the Pentagon, but we are really talking about only 6 million here, and this really is not an approach to Estonia's security interests. The second round of problems that the question of Ülle quite rightly addressed relate to issues concerning people's livelihoods and the limited means of a democratic state to alleviate inflationary pressures in terms of both the economic environment and people's ability to cope. We do not see any measures here, however, and this is the kind of spirit of letting go that was ravaged in the process of processing the budget for 2022 to the effect that inflation is short-term. Jürgen Ligi has left the room for other business. He used [the expression] "short-term": forgive me, there's a few percent inflation coming, it's short-term. This was the wrong starting point for the Government of the Republic! And that has meant that, unfortunately, we see inflation as being boosted, we have not taken any measures. Moreover, I have at my disposal information on how much inflation has eaten up the 2022 budget. We are talking here about inflation affecting people, changing the price of money, but it is also changing the budget. If the price of money has changed, it is therefore possible to achieve less with this budget. And these numbers are somewhere based on the fact that we are now in the budget with real purchasing power.. the budget structure is different, isn't it, where the money goes, where the money is available for this budget, somewhere in 2020. Let's do what these numbers mean, adjust me. The budget for 2022 amounted to 13 billion, the budget for 2020 was 11.6 [billion]. We are talking about the fact that our own budget, which we have also adopted, has almost a tenth less real purchasing power as a result of inflation. These are the facts that we must take into account. However, the government does not have a policy to deal with inflation, both prognostically and in a way which measures are needed to alleviate inflation for people, albeit with a view to the prospect of economic competitiveness. This is an emergency crisis situation, this is not a normal situation where just some economic numbers, some kind of macrometer has jumped up in the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U485	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U486	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have read here the opinions that high energy prices and inflation are great things, because they force the transition through a greener turn to new forms of energy production and greener and more saving the planet and everything else involved. Does the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which is clearly an over-ideologized government and loyally follows all the ideological command boards that are being thrown into the air somewhere in Europe, but also in America, not necessarily based on the fact that let it be bad, the worse, the better, we can move faster to the green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U487	Thank you. Those are very difficult words, Mart. I would use such a formulation that, in my opinion, in the substantive core problems that Estonia is facing, this government is completely ideology-free. I think that the government does not have a political approach and that the government's real major choices, which have economic policy implications, are actually made by top officials. That is a fact that we must acknowledge honestly in this Chamber. And, of course, it is more convenient for top officials to choose an approach that is more streamlined, be it agreed to realise the European Union's climate goals, or be it the agreed approach, so that under no circumstances should Estonia have to apply for exceptions on any matter, or even yet design solutions that are original to us in an emergency situation. Other European countries do so. Take Germany, for example. Germany's Greens were ready to understand perfectly in this context, firstly, the burden on their consumers, secondly, the whole security crisis situation that is now rolling in Europe in connection with the war. The decision to extend the use of nuclear energy, the decision to extend the time limits for the use of coal, are practical, pragmatic decisions. And that is what pragmatism, especially in a crisis situation, must actually show. There must be political will to do this, this political will must be formulated and the official body must be able to realise it. I am sorry, but I am working on the original documents of the European Union. I work with the original documents and when I am told in one sentence in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia says on such an important document: but this is not in accordance with the rules of the European Union. I ask you, honourable representative of the government, to represent the constitutional institution here in Parliament, to give me a reference which he contradicts. Of course, he does not contradict, because I myself am familiar with the text of the original document. We have been talking to experts about putting together this draft, it has been assessed by the Competition Authority. But that's what they say, it's easy to say in a simple, semi-sensory way: it's not consistent, that's why you can't do it. Similarly, I gave an example of how Taavi Aas went to Brussels to fight CO2 quotas. Remember, he made a press release in Estonia that he must have sent a letter to Kadri Samson. You see, such a brave man! He wrote to Kadri Samson in Brussels, taped it on a stamp. What happened to it? Nothing, a press release was made in Estonia. Two weeks passed and there was a meeting of the European Union's energy ministers. And what am I reading? There, at the meeting of the European Union's energy ministers, Taavi Aas is kulping. The free market in electricity, for God's sake, must, in any case, protect this CO2 system in Europe. So in Estonia this newspaper wrote, published, had a press release printed on how it stands for Estonian consumers. Two weeks later in Brussels: of course, this system is very good. And you can imagine, even condemned those countries that dare to be here [to oppose]. It is necessary to reject in every way attempts to disrupt and mislead this system in any way. These countries were still disgruntled by the representative of the Republic of Estonia. Has the government discussed CO2 reform issues? There hasn't been a government mandate for a lot of money. We are taking action here on the climate package 2050, which has been approved by the campaign, where Estonia welcomes this fundamental continuation of the emissions trading system. Wrong paradigm! And the wrong paradigm gives the wrong result, which means a higher, exponentially higher electricity price, and that actually also means a higher and less competitive environment in these sectors than in third countries in our areas of life. Remember what the European Commission is asking for? All housing needs to be brought into the CO2 trading system. What does that mean for our price? And what's the government's position? The government has doubts about that, you see how brave men, they dare to doubt it. I don't know if it means yes in Estonian. In conclusion, I agree in this sense that I do not see the will to be realised as regards the protection of the interests of our businesses, our consumers, and I see it in other countries. And we have to be honest with you that these real proposals to change the European system too. By the way, the European Commission, which could be expected to have a high-level ideology, has come up with proposals, calling for fiscal policy measures to try to contain inflation levels in Europe. Imagine, in Germany, inflation is over 6%, they're ringing the alarm, holding special sessions in the Bundestag, dealing with inflation suppression issues. We have 19%. And then we're going to open up this extra budget, where there's no line addressed to inflation, and I'm going to get the question here, why do I call it a screw-up? What's missing, I call white sheets of paper. It's kind of mentally limited right now where we are. The political capacity of this government to operate internally in solving the most critical problems is, in my opinion, I cannot say whether it is exhausted, how much [at all] it has been found, but it does not meet the minimum quality of governance that we need in our country today. I'm sorry for saying so frank, frankly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U488	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U489	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Well, a sharp and colorful presentation, as always, you're in shape, that's what we're convinced of. But only in Question Time did we actually hear from the Prime Minister that the opposition should resign with the Centre Party, because we have made such a proposal in the context of family allowances and children's benefits, where there is no source of cover. This is the current situation. At the same time, the government has been saying all along, with great sharpness, that all subsidies must be targeted, well targeted, and the issues of energy subsidies have been its flagship. At the same time, the Estonian people sit and watch and listen and think. Well, the potato puts down, the fall picks up, but the energy doesn't have much influence on the prices. Even if the firewood does it itself, you still have to pay for the electricity. So, what's next for us in the fall? Using the media, we understand that Kaja Kallas gives the assignment to Taavi Asa, Taavi Aas gives to someone else, but what are these solutions? Do you understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U490	Yes, the Minister of Economic Affairs has recently become somewhat passive. I don't recognize him anymore to tell the truth in the last few weeks. He's a little untied, we can see it from his political handwriting. But I wouldn't want to attack the Prime Minister here in any way. It is not easy for the Prime Minister to deal very easily with the complex of sociologically representative problems. In my opinion, on this issue, I would put the situation in reverse: Parliament must come not to the Prime Minister's attention but to the assistance. This means that this additional budget will have to be dismantled and placed in this additional budget those block elements that are necessary in an elementary way to raise the level of national security, rather than to brittle it. And let's not fool ourselves with nominal numbers today. Let's talk about purchasing power, as the Pentagon says, we still work in a different management quality environment. Of course, as far as inflation and the economic environment are concerned, this forecast, on the basis of which this draft has been submitted and on which I rely, expert assessments, I repeat, futures are currently taking place in Europe at EUR 90 megawatt-hour of gas. In the first quarter, we had the price of gas in Europe how much? 92 euros average. In reality, this means that experts are forecasting at least the same level of price shock for electricity during the heating period as we had gone during the heating period. True, there are elements inside, there may be climatic influences, but the market is actually working in this direction and the market is already forecasting price shock. And, in general, market laws are very difficult, especially in the bizarre market such as the Nord Pool market, to combat the measures of directives. How do you behave in this tsunami? You can act rationally by simply offering our small consumers the possibility of isolating this market and from this crazy speculative CO2 emissions trade tax, to basically free small consumers through the repayment of producers, rather than collecting this money. Let's cheer it up victoriously. Look, basically, it's totally left-hand and incomprehensible what the government had. The CO2 emissions trade money was bathing, it was hugely transferred to the state budget, here several hundred million euros are also forecasting this year, and then this money, just like Louis XIV, was returned to their subsidy scheme, where the government appointed, to whom we give, to whom we do not give. And in such a situation, how more logical it would have been to offer consumers an alternative, the external package of Nord Pool, where this CO2 money is not actually taken from people. It was not really a market economy. People must be given the opportunity to respond to madness, the non-functional system. It is very difficult for people who want to live in Estonia to react with their feet, because living without electricity is difficult. And I'm not going to go away from Estonia, so I'm not going to do it. On the contrary, I think that people should come back to Estonia. And the economic environment should encourage it, not hinder it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U491	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! In today's presentation, you have spoken more than two thirds of everything other than your own draft. Very much you have talked about defence expenditure and additional budget. I agree with everything. But I have a question for you. Indeed, there has been a statement many times in this Chamber that there is no war in Estonia. At the same time, I dare say that Estonia is quite sure to be involved in the war, and in the additional budget, more than 600 proposed parties and its leaders have found that it is possible and necessary to take all... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U493	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U494	... money for change. What's your position? Is it right to do this at the expense of defence expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U495	First of all, Mrs Eenmaa, I would like to thank you sincerely for agreeing with my views. I may have been quite crisp in my assessments, but the more I deserve to be commended for my sincere respect for the fact that you admitted to the problems I really wanted to point out in such a contextualising broader approach. This question was the EKRE on these 600 [amendments]. I don't know if EKRE 600 really intended it. On a consolidated basis, the Ministry of Defence, when we are talking about military defence, has EUR 15 million in an additional budget. Of these, if I remember correctly, EUR 8 million for allies to build barracks, means, for that second battalion of the United Kingdom there, accommodation and what is meant there. And, as I said, 6 million without VAT, in the order of 7.2 [million euros], probably for the purchase of those anti-tank missiles. No, I certainly don't know if EKRE proposed to reduce this entry. Leo Kunnas shakes his head. But if that's the case, I'm sure I'll condemn it. If that was not the case, then I will simply take note of the question of misguided erecting. Now, about the questioner's diagnosis of whether we're at war. That's a hundred percent I agree with. We're actually in a war situation right now, there's no question at all. Yes, according to international law, we are not a formal party to the so-called armed conflict, but it is obvious that Russia's war of aggression is also directed more broadly at our whole way of life [against] and threatens us as a border country of this way of life entirely existentially. Therefore, as I said here a few months ago when we spoke about the problems of the defence budget, we need to change the paradigmatic approach to how we realise our defence needs. This, then, is not based on financial capacity, but must be needs-based. The fundamental approach must change. After all, I have compiled a catalogue of needs, we know how many billion euros this real amount of needs is. It is regrettable that we have not at present considered it necessary or reasonable to address it sufficiently. This is neither security-relevant nor economically rational, since indeed, according to all forecasts, Rheinmetall recently reported its forecast just as you can see what happens to the stock markets of the arms industries in Europe, all [prices] are rising exponentially. This is a sign that price levels are also rising in the context of a limited supply situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U496	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U497	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! As a defence officer, a border guard and a citizen, I would like to say and deny any kind of talk that the EKRE wants to reduce defence costs. On the contrary, we can see very clearly that if we go forward with low defence costs, it may happen that our country will disappear from the ground. That is why the priorities are very important. The most important thing is to make the cost of protection so high that we do not have the fear that we will not be able to exercise the protection of our country. That is why I would not like to see people in this Chamber saying that the EKRE wants to eliminate defence costs. I would like to ask you even more, you have been in several governments in several Riigikogus. Why have we come to this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U498	I mean, it turned out why we have not been able to develop the protection of our country enough. True, yes, I had the honour of being the Minister of Defence when Estonia's defence budget reached 2% of its gross domestic product. And right now I'm saying, with these numbers, with nominal amounts, or also with percentage ratios in our geopolitical context, juggle them, they don't matter at all. It's about the real powers we're capable of holding. And the fact is that this social perception was [quite] blunt. There were few who actually warned so dramatically, I am also looking at Leo, the texts of his publicists, which must be admitted honestly here. And there were others. However, protection was dealt with earlier, and what is a problem just today, 80+ days after this new phase of the Ukrainian war as a competitive cost compared to other legitimate state budget expenditure. And if you take this starting point, we can't even make a bigger jump, it's gonna stop. According to the papers, security budget, open the way, read, huh, 6 million additional capabilities to develop and see, more will be approved. €6 million out of €800 million will then amount to a total consolidated defence budget of €700 million, 600+ in terms of current defence budget. This is the context in which we are now sitting. I think we need to change this paradigm, and Parliament must be more convincing here for the government to introduce this new model of thought. The earlier thought model is outdated; in this context of death risk, we cannot base it on it. The Prime Minister told us that the win-back cannot be in realising collective defence plans for solutions. Yes, if the win-back is not a solution, then the question is what is the time to win back in days, weeks, months, and we will see how big and what disasters have actually taken place in the occupied territory of Ukraine in a very short period of time, in weeks. Sorry, over a million people deported in a two-month perspective. And these aren't Stalin's time mass deportations, they're taking place within a few months of flying hours from here. But what would that mean in the context of the Baltic States, sorry, the cost of such a win-back? What is it, countries half empty? And it's not some figurative, literary exaggeration, it's a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U499	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U500	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Urmas! What do you think about maintaining CO2 quotas today? When these quotas were created, the idea was to motivate the transition to greener technologies that would consume less carbon. At the time, the initial minimum price was EUR 10 per tonne and it was said that the optimal price would be up to EUR 25 per tonne. Today we know that this ton price has been very much higher between 80, 90 and 100 in the previous heating period. I have a feeling. Do you share my opinion? just because the government does not deliberately want to go over or touch on this issue at all, because, as you said yourself, it is simply a source of revenue in the budget. And it is good to show who raised these taxes in Brussels, and they have done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U501	I suspect you might be absolutely right on the one hand. And on the other hand, it's either a delusion or a failure of your own what does it mean? To stand up for the competitiveness and quality of life of our country and people. We are not talking about some abstract academic problem with regard to pan-European taxation. And what is that? It's actually a speculative tax in reality, no matter what we call it with beautiful names, with the names of that reward. It's a completely unpredictable tax. The first principle of taxation is that the tax must be predictable. What level of creation of this system has been predicted? Yeah, you're talking 25 or 30. These analyses, which have been carried out at the level of the EU's 2050 climate package, are, in fact, both those of the European Commission and the reference analyses commissioned by Estonia. These are unsuitable because this reference value has actually changed completely. Totally changed! And now, in such a situation, it is only reasonable, of course, to switch to a uniform type of payment with a single and clear monetary value and with a reasonable level, as previously predicted when the system was launched. The idea that we will bring European societies to their knees at such a shocking price of electricity and energy, extending this CO2 payment to different areas of life, and then we will achieve this green turn faster, well I think it qualifies for human testing. And this resilience to societies exceeds the limit of tolerance for such action. Everything has to be done with your mind. If reason is lost or if a system becomes a grotesque of its own, it must be designed, or if it is a pan-European wave of this level, it must provide Estonia, like a small boat or a small island, with this approach to its consumers, our entrepreneurs, so that we can function here. One thing, in demographic processes, small countries have very serious problems, much greater threats than large countries. The great nations will last. Changing a certain population structure from a demographic point of view may give us very extensive undesirable or desired consequences, let us say, in the perspective of generations, but this is also the case in economic matters. In fact, when we talk about our economic environment, about the economic environment of such a small country, one thing is this level of inflation in the case of large countries, but inflation in transition economies and small countries economies is amplified. This is what the experts are telling us today, and I think they're talking about the basis of historical experience. This means that when it is amplified, any common sense will say that we need to balance it more with due diligence than with other European countries. But what do I see? Not a flea shit. Nothing, literally, dear friends. With the end of March, these support measures, which were not the most elegant, to say the least, were drawn to a drink, all were defeated. This is not how most European countries did it. Why didn't you? It is not just a question of the price of electricity during the heating period; it is actually a question of reducing all inflationary pressures. But it's being ignored. That's the ignorance. But who are its victims? Victims are their own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U502	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U503	Thank you, Mr President. Urmas, in answer to the second question, you compared the financial system in the United States, talked about their budgetary methods, and about us. Is it really right to compare two countries that are so different? They have this kind of thing called the Federal Reserve System, which includes a printing machine, and making dollars is no problem. They have a public debt approaching $30 trillion. To recalculate Estonia, this would mean, for example, a debt of more than 100 billion euros. Is it even correct to set an example for Estonia in these methods?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U504	Thank you. I suppose, if I were to make universal parallels with such a broad line, the world's largest economy, one fifth of the world's world's population, between Estonia and Estonia, it would certainly not be credible or could lead to very inappropriate conclusions. I only spoke of one aspect. I spoke of this, leaving aside the financial system in the United States, that the United States has its own stabilisers, how the United States' defence budget is a trillion in size, they operate within a trillion to acquire new capabilities and because the cost of money has become cheaper or more expensive, consider it reasonable to allocate additional money in order to maintain the goal of capacity development. That's the idea. When we say we're going to be able to do more with this $6 million, I said it wasn't true. I mentioned, for example, on average, that some 10% of the budget that we approved last December has lost its purchasing power. That's the number of the Treasury Department, that's not my number. I only operate with the Finance Department's numbers. And that means that at least as much, I believe, has actually happened in the capacity development money that we can take from the defence budget in a large way. Colonel Kunnas can correct, but I take it that at least a third of our defense budget goes to power development. Possibly even in the current situation of 40%, when these decisions have been made to acquire ammo. And that means that the money has increased, I think, by more than 10% in the middle. So operating at this level, our real, effective defence budget is decreasing in real time, rather than growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U505	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U506	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm sure you're familiar with the concept of a blood diamond. It's a diamond that's mined somewhere in Africa, mined by children climbing mines and falling under collapses. The entry of such diamonds into the market will be fully impeded. With regard to the reform of the electricity market, it is now the same idea that ordinary electricity production must be stopped and switched to a green turn and that different so-called batteries should also be used for this. But so far, no one has talked about the dark side of the subject. Indeed, the metal used in lithium ion batteries is a major component of cobalt, but cobalt is also mined in Africa by children and also at blood price. Is it true that this is not a turning of green, but a turning of blood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U507	Well, that's an interesting question. I certainly condemn any use of child labour and child abuse in this context. If this takes place to realise the consumption needs of Western society, in any context, it means one-to-one that we have a moral responsibility. We have a moral obligation to block it by the means at the disposal of civilized mankind. I think that this child labour problem, or the use of children as a so-called slave labour force at a time when a child, a small person should play and learn, is a technology in a variety of areas, including, as a good questioner pointed out here, with limited resources for mineral resources [in mining]. This problem needs to be acknowledged, but I don't think I'm going to link it directly to the context of the green turn. It is likely to have occurred in other areas of life or in the production of raw materials, or even in the production of cheap labour. It has, unfortunately, also been used in various periods, apart from this technological revolution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U508	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U509	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Well, that kind of internal burning, persuasion and expertise I'd like to see every bill reported. But you repeatedly mentioned the term 'quality of governance' and, rather, in terms of critical, everyday or political governance. I am asking for an assessment of strategic governance in the field of energy. Because, well, there are no universally right and wrong decisions, both sorry and not. In fact, it would be important, both in terms of security of supply and energy availability, to find a suitable solution for Estonia, to agree that there will be certainty for the investors, but also for consumers, which will then be in the next winter and in ten years' time. How do you assess strategic governance in the field of energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U510	Two! Honour two, just like [then when I] went to school in the Russian era. There's nothing to say, dear friends, you have to be tough sometimes, but honest. On Monday, we touched on this issue with representatives of the government, which is the solution to the energy shock. It was brought out, even called through, and flaunted with long contracts that could be concluded for a longer period of time to bring down prices. Well, in reality, no doubt this is not some kind of system-creative solution. This is one technical little measure, as I said, the price horizon now is a hundred and a half, okay, if we look, anyone can open a computer. Secondly, it was said that the plan for the development of sea parks was adopted, which is a separate element, and then it was said that you will see a radar coming to Ida-Viru County. The level of development of sea parks is what we are talking about in 2025+. The comprehensive approach to the energy crisis in Estonia, our region and the war around the world has, in fact, all facets of this energy crisis problem have categorically not been amplified towards uncertain risks. I'll be honest, it doesn't exist. You don't operate on it. Moreover, on Monday there was talk with the members of the Economic Commission, the same question as the Russian gas withdrawal. There, representatives of the Government of the Republic provided me with fascinating information. It turns out that this is a declarative story that Estonia will give up Russian gas by the end of the year. No legally binding decision has been taken. Secondly, even more so, our government is linking it to what? The Republic of Finland's withdrawal of Russian gas. This means, in fact, and as it stands, the representative of the Government of the Republic confirmed that Finland is not going to give up Russian gas. The Steinogram can be looked up, under the second item on the agenda, but the context is the same when we talk about a strategic perspective. This is a very short perspective. Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs, signed the LNG-Communist language, together with the Finnish Minister for Economic Affairs, who wrote that together with Finland, we are going to develop the LNG terminal. But not a line! There was no Russian gas withdrawal. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs said: Estonia made proposals. I asked for them to be sent as to what proposals they were. But the Finnish side took the ballpoint pen and pulled them down. And actually, we've made half a deal. We had a strategic interest here five years ago in the LNG terminal, we said, well, make Incos, use this privilege to build Incos for a few years. Nothing happened. And now the question is, in this case, full clarity must be achieved as regards the LNG terminal, why we have not taken a decision, a binding decision on the withdrawal of Russian gas from market participants. I mean, sorry, they're making a press release: the government is giving up Russian gas. Mikhail, the government is giving up Russian gas! In fact, the government does not use Russian gas, market operators using gas, it is the brokers who have applied for permission from the Competition Authority, they speculate with gas or sell it to retail customers, or they buy it in wholesale on the so-called internal market that we have in the Baltic States and Finland. The government has nothing here. The government can establish a legal rule, not a press release that Russian gas is not consumed. And now we come to the fact that there is no rule, in fact, market participants do not have clarity in this context. And I think it is not a good thing, it is not a strategic way of thinking, and it must certainly be straightened out. We have little time and I hope that before the summer we will be able to formulate this problem strongly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U511	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U512	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Urmas! Don't get distracted. Don't be misled! A good colleague here, Ivi Eenmaa, stated at one point that EKRE has proposed 600 and more budgets and asked or asked for this money to be taken away from defence expenditure for its proposals. It's a lie! It has to be repeated for the sake of the verbatim: it's a complete lie, there's no such thing. The proposal was to withdraw funding from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or, in particular, to move from some line of ministry to some place. So it has to be mentioned. But the Prime Minister, of course, has announced that he will resign as a horror! This vile group of Riigikogu should decide to raise family benefits. Can you imagine?! But now a question for you. What is your view about the last decision that windmills could not be built on Neugrund's sea area, which would have been one of the potential? What is your view of energy production in the light of the decision made by the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U513	Thank you. Well, when I listened to this answer about this draft of child benefits, I remembered the sentiment that the government is not the Riigikogu, but the Riigikogu is the government. This is also a very important starting point for the legislative initiative. I find it a little strange that Parliament, the legislator, can grudge from the government for having dared to initiate a bill. It seems to me that this thinking is not in accordance with the Constitution. This Neugrund thing is now a very long beard story. I was, I don't know, ten years ago, the Secretary of Defense, but those developers actually came to see me back in the day. This project has been so-called not in the drawer, but has moved forward at various stages. I understand from then on I remember that there, if I remember correctly, the main practical problem is the naval exercise area. At the time, I asked you to look into it. The companies then approached [Defence Forces]. The Defence Forces responded that they do not have alternatives to this exercise area in this context. So I understand that there is no problem with the radar capability that we are trying to solve in the eastern direction, and I understand that the decision on radar in the Western direction has probably also been taken during the current government. It's like a radar can't solve a problem there, because there's a danger that they're just gonna blow up those poor windmills with the windmills, when the exercise area and the windmill area coincide. This, of course, is unthinkable. I think it is rather a question of national defence logic of whether there is an alternative environment and other exercise area in the sea to ensure safety. I have no reason to doubt that these experts appreciated it with common sense. I certainly do not suspect that the government would try to develop these initiatives in any way or deliberately block them, whatever their motives, when it comes to using sea wind parks now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U514	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U515	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Let's look at the energy prices that have risen to the ceiling! If anyone here is saying that the [price] of gas has risen on the world market and everything else, it's bluffing out here. We know that the price of electricity in Estonia is twice [higher] for one reason only: Elering opened the third line between Latvia and Estonia. And the sad news is that while private companies are building LNG infrastructure, Elering has not yet agreed to build a pipeline between the infrastructure and Balticconnector. The draft proposed by the Fatherland has clearly set limits beyond which it is not possible to charge the price. And today it is clear that the price of electricity has been high on the Estonian market for the last seven months only because Elering has made such decisions. Isn't it time to review Elering's leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U516	No, I'd say it's not a question of guidance. Neither the managers of the company performing the public task.. and Elering have a purely public function in this sense, the operator company and, in this sense, the market regulator in a wider context to ensure security of supply... I am missing the same ideology at the moment, the clear will of the government and the message to be achieved. It's missing. Consequently, there are other things that have arisen and are incomprehensible to me, and, I think, in many cases, unfathomable interests also for the public. We see a maze of interests, we see an entrepreneur telling us when a press release from the Ministry of Economic Affairs is issued that we have reached an agreement. One-sided side says an agreement was reached. What was agreed? What is this framework? And I'm sorry, where's the real, I'm asking, pricing analysis? No valuation analysis is available. I understand, it is very urgent, action must be taken, action must be taken directly. But that doesn't mean that the decision of all... How will the pricing model for LNG gas take place? This is an extremely important issue for me. Not that I'm challenging the model, but I want to see what pricing policy is. How will it actually become a reality for consumers in Estonian space, so that we also manage excessive price shocks in this context? Now, the problem with reforming this electricity market is quite clearly that there are, of course, very influential institutions in the field of energy in Estonia that do not like it immediately. Definitely, I don't think the market regulator likes it, who's got their own profits depending on it. I'm sure the manufacturer doesn't like it. I think the profit of Eesti Energia decreases significantly in this logic, let's call it, well how much we say, 1 sharps plus electricity sales, which could occur, what we would expect to do. And, of course, the revenue from the state budget is decreasing, there is no doubt about that. The revenues of very large stakeholders are falling, their influential position is decreasing. The only one who wins is the people of Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs. And they're left alone on this battlefield right now. The government says stick together, consume, this energy crisis is short-term. People are already saving up. It doesn't require government teachings. The person who doesn't have the money has to be saved. It's just the principle of economics. But the fact that it's short-lived is deeply misleading. And the government coalition, wrought from that patho, voted down this bill last spring. And once again, although we submitted it already last fall We are now talking about a lower price burden on people's electricity prices in hundreds of millions of euros, which would have been left to the people. We are operating on this scale now, at least EUR 250 million for consumers. And that means that, in a few years' perspective, we're operating here in the order of a billion. This isn't funny money. This isn't funny money! Someone's paying for it, their people are paying for it. How do you pay? Some other expenses. But it also leads to, I would point out that one thing is the price of electricity autonomously, but the problem, the core problem is that it leads to an inflation spiral. And this chain of linkages to control inflation, which could be done, such a holistic approach by the government has not been able to present at the time of the devolution of the budget for 2022, albeit at the time of the additional budget procedure for 2022. No, no, no, no, Zero! And in this situation, it is not possible to operate in the economic environment at the moment. Individual issues are being dealt with, the so-called financial allocations, which, I am sure, are gradually starting to amplify the government reserve, the individual allocations in this crisis environment. But instead of dealing with a candyman like that with a financial allocation of EUR 50, like in November, what is that? We are talking here about the macro-level shift that has taken place. However, in a crisis situation where the system is unstable and the market is not functioning... Sorry, we're at war in the world! War runs in the world, the market doesn't function in reality, it needs to be balanced. I am the first man to say that there must be a free market, do not interfere with the market, but in a situation where the market does not function, where the whole world is currently facing this conflict and there is a total struggle through resources in this military crisis, it must be able to balance it with its own measures in a small boat where the Estonian economy is. If this is not a crisis, what is this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U517	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U518	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have listened to your presentation in my office, and I will make sure that you do everything very widely, so in fact, you do not understand what you are going to say at the end of the day. But I noticed that you were sufficiently ambitious in the current government and that you probably used the materials of the Special Committee on State Budget Control on Monday or what was said there. You did it selectively, of course, and you won't make it all. But you did not mention one of the components of Estonia's high inflation, the pension reform led by your party, which was implemented by the previous government and which brought about a billion euros into our consumption, rather than bringing them into securities. Do you regret the fact that you have inflated inflation with your actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U519	Thank you. Thank you for that joke, Annely, for a good question! The Ministry of Finance distributes it. Of course, it is a political memo that officials have been made to speak. This billion euros plus, which was taken out and, of course, not everyone went into consumption, that it has caused this so-called superinflation in Estonia to let you laugh. Let's put things in the right perspective. The Estonian national payroll fund, the chairman of the hearing, corrects me, but I say that it is somewhere under 20 billion euros a year. You could say that, couldn't you? The increase in the National Payroll last year was more than twice as much as we are talking about this basically out of pension reform. More than twice the size. Now the government is telling us that, look at the EUR 1 billion coming on the market, it will lead to superinflation, the same government that made an additional budget of EUR 700 million last year, and this year we will be working on an additional budget of EUR 202 million. After all, this money comes to the market, so it could be said, according to this theory, that any money that goes into the economy actually creates such a convulsation. However, the context is that the central bank of the European Union has made support purchases of EUR 5 trillion [for]. I'm sorry, five trillion euros! We operate, my dear friends, with cosmic numbers, and we're talking about pension reform money here! Oh, my God! If this possibility of pension reform money had not been available to people in the current energy crisis... I think it was a lifeline for them. The people taking out the money bought something. Look what happened! Ampsti! The inflation rate is actually 18% compared to last spring, the value of people's money [decreased]. A small apology: no cows and sheep and dogs and cats are in the pension fund. The money takes into account, this money takes into account, for which there could be a microcalculator now, the reality of the pension reform money times 0.8 or the zero decimal point that it then comes, with this coefficient of 18.8%. So, of course, the amount of money that is directed towards the market is somehow not an independent, autonomous source of inflation. Similarly, it could be argued that this EUR 170 million, which was paid out in the event of an increase in the price of energy carriers by various measures taken by the government, has led to enormously separate inflation. Or, excuse me, you could say that our government's huge inflation weapon is, how much this pension rise we had here, how much he's coming this year. The increase in the pension of 1 April, from 1 January to 1 January, if I am not mistaken, was a nominal increase in the pension, right, EUR 20 exceptional and yet additional average retirement pension exemption. Then you could also say that this is a huge government inflation bomb in reality. These few figures, which I have brought, are sufficient to operate in the relevant economic numbers, fiscal numbers, and to see that they are simply a comic fashion, which is rather a rhetorical battle of rematching over the battle of the war that has passed. That's what I call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U520	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U521	Good manager! Good waitress! There is now a serious similar debate in Noblessner's foundry, and Einari Kisel, who was a figure in the World Energy Council, said directly that Estonia needs to put the electricity market organisation on its feet. Right now there's this kind of nose pecking, definition and movement like a hedgehog in the fog. And the Auditor General Holm said that the action resembles a movie called "Them in the Blur." The Siilionu wanted to go to the cub to drink tea and look at the stars together. Do you agree with what Janar Holm thinks about what is currently happening in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U522	Yeah, I agree with that. I would like to say one thing. Under our eyes, history is born, something that might be compared to the collapse of the Soviet Union. Tectonic events, whether in security, energy, changes in the world's way of life, will take place, and they will be very multidirectional. I think that there are a lot of different transitions in the way society lives, as well as in people's attitudes and attitudes. This means that this revision of the policy and the understanding that the old paradigm may no longer be the quality in which to operate and, if necessary, decisions must be taken in weeks and months, setting out the real purpose or intention and the request that we propose to ourselves and which we can control. Give us God to recognize what is within our power and what is beyond our power. I think, yes, there is a great lack of such a creative concept of common sense. It is possible that this was also indicated by the Auditor General when he spoke.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U523	Good friends! There is one question about this. It's okay, it's okay. Okay. Mr Reinsalu, the story now is that there is no one else who would like to ask you a question. We ran out of questions. But we also need to hear the presentation of the Committee on Economic Affairs, by Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U524	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the waitress was very witty. I will try to make the same witty presentation of what happened in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but the whole situation or the discussion wasn't so funny. I start with the fact that, indeed, this draft has already been discussed and discussed in the Commission once in this Chamber. The Commission discussed this at two meetings on 9 May and 16 May. On 9 May, procedural [decisions] were made, it was decided to put [the draft] on the agenda today, but on 16 May, the draft was discussed in substance. The honourable rapporteur took stock of what he said here in brief today. Then the representatives of the two ministries, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance presented their vision of the matter, and then finally a proposal was discussed which changed the draft into a task for the Government of the Republic. This proposal was voted on and 2 people opposed and 5 were in favour. The bill has been amended. That's it. Finally, a final vote was also decided today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U525	Tarmo Kruusimäe would like to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U526	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I know your answer that you did not discuss this issue in the committee. At all, I do not understand what debate you are having there. But that's my question. If this current sundown government is based, let's say, on personal approaches, that as long as parents can handle it, there is no problem. Was it under discussion how much inflation should be in order to start talking about our government today, where they say that, oh, now the situation is that we are going to react quietly? Is it 25%, or is it 30%, or is it 33%? How do you feel about the tolerance limits of today's government, where they see that they should react? Well, it's 6% in Germany when they're already responding. We've got 15.9% here, and we're still taking it easy, we've got that shot. So the people of Estonia know to be ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U527	Good questioner! Given that a lot of questions have already been asked in the previous debate, I will take this opportunity to answer your questions, also to look at the world much wider than your question concerns. I think I'm gonna start by saying that really inflation is pretty high, and that's a pretty big problem. But the fact that there is a very interesting custom in Estonian politics is a little astonishing about this: if the party falls into opposition, it will immediately start to make such a face that it is not affected at all. He doesn't know what decisions were made earlier and what happened earlier. I say, honourable questioner, the members of your party have led the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which has been part of the government for years, were in many decisions. They were at the decision when we decided to go to the free market principle in the field of energy. They were at the decision when we gave up the LNG terminal years ago and gave it to Finland. They were in the hands of many other decisions that led to today's situation. And make it look like we're here like a ne pristo, now there's a government, is a prime minister who's incompetent, it's like it's not quite fair, it's not quite correct. Here I would like to emphasise that yes, inflation is high, measures must be taken, but there is no need to pretend that we have done nothing, that such a situation has arisen. This situation today is Europe-wide, global. The war situation in Ukraine has a pretty strong impact on world policy, and we must all come out of this together. But to say that some are guilty and others are not guilty is not quite fair. That's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U528	Mr Reinsalu, is there now a desire, in the course of the procedure, to start correcting something again? I wouldn't want to see that. I'd like you to ask me about the procedure if it's procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U529	Yes, I would like to make it clear that I attended the whole meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I do not remember this debate and the views that the Commission's position has now expressed at this meeting. Why don't you, Mikhail, clarify who expressed these views from the members of the Commission and representatives of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U530	It was not a procedural question, Mr Reinsalu. The procedural question can be for the manager. If you want to ask Mr Korb, press the "Word" button and you can ask the question as it is correct. It's a procedural question again. Please! I'm listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U531	Dear President of the sitting! Of course, Mikhail understands that it was my little one that proved that the representative of the Commission should rather address the Commission's reasoning. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U532	We all have this understanding in this Chamber that the representative of the Commission deals with what has happened in the Commission, but often these reports are very short and often the questioners have asked about what is happening outside the Commission. Well, that's the question of a bilateral debate. Sometimes the question arises that if a representative of the Commission does not answer and says on every question that it was not discussed, then it is again a concern that he will not express his personal opinion. Indeed, if the representative of the Commission is here, he must express what has happened in the Commission, summarise it and then, if necessary, come and say the political group or his position. There's a procedure on Mr. Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U533	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have a procedural question for you. I assume that we all have the same materials, including the Commission's protocol, and if there is also a reference to how our skin with the LNG terminal was pulled over our ears, I do not see such material in this protocol. And I do not want there to be an understanding of the people who watch the verbatim that we have different Commission protocols, coalition ambassadors one and the other [the other], so that there is no such lack of truth. Can you tell me who in the committee said it out loud that LNG was the one that pulled the skin out of the Isamaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U534	Thank you. The President cannot say this, but if Mr Reinsalu is asking the question now from Mr Korb, then Mr Korb will certainly be able to answer what actually happened in the Commission. Please, Mr. Reinsalu! Now it's time for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U535	Yes, of course, Mikhail may answer what happened to Tarmo [the question]. But I have a question for Mikhail to add to that. On Monday at the meeting of the Commission, I asked the representative of the government what the government has its own calculations, on which I rely, predicts the price of electricity in the Nord Pool system for Estonia on 1 January next year. And the government representative answered me. Why don't you repeat that answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U536	Yeah, that's exactly the kind of discussion that was, and I'm trying to find this place in the protocol, it's probably gonna take a little bit of time. But I'm sure I'll give you my opinion first. I imagine it's pretty complicated to predict this price. What happened last winter, when the sudden cold time came, had a pretty negative effect on the situation. In addition, the new situation related to connections with other countries, such as Latvia, where Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia now became one of the markets in which energy moved, and the deficit in the region was also somewhat reflected in the price. I can't find this place in a hurry. But I generally think that the representative of the ministry was unable to answer exactly the question as to what they predict the price and did not mention the price that will come in Estonia next winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U537	Mr Reinsalu, what is this procedural question now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U538	A very simple procedural question. How can we talk about the weather here as of May 17th? See what happens on the real-time exchange, what degrees are out, warm weather, [but on the stock exchange] is currently figured out in the Estonian zone 300 [euro megawatt]? How can we put a high electricity price on the weather right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U539	This is not a procedural question, Mr Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U540	Mr President, how can such a misleading statement be? Can a misleading statement be made by a representative of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U541	This is not a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U542	Good manager! Good waitress! What was real in the Commission? Was there such an idea or discussion that Reinsalu would come with some crazy talk and suggestions, but in fact, the government has all these things planned? How was it? I haven't been able to read the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U543	First of all, I will take this opportunity to comment on Mr Reinsalu's emotional eruption from the hall, which we are talking about today's price when it is warm weather. I would remind you that December prices were many times higher than today's prices. Of course, there's no way to be proud of that, but those prices were pretty crispy. As far as the Commission is concerned, it seemed, in general, that there was a lack of understanding of each other. The Ministry of Economic Affairs saw the situation the same way, Mr Reinsalu offered his solutions to the situation, and that was how the discussion went. Since this discussion has already gone around this draft for the second time, it was more emotional than substantive, I must admit and share my impressions of this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U544	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U545	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I would indeed also comment a little on the current price level and what was in winter. Once in the winter, it did reach 1,000 megawatts, that was for a moment. If this were to be the case, then the Estonian state would still be on its knees, not in the ground. Right now he's also down 400 here, which is still very high, extraordinarily... [[Voice in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U546	Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U547	...high. But my question is rather whether there was a debate in the Commission, or whether the representatives of the government gave any indication of how they are preparing for the next autumn, no such strategic dimension. The search for alternatives to reduce gas costs should also be undertaken today. I have heard nothing about any proposals for transferring boiler houses to wood-fired or peat-fired or for finding solutions. Was there any mention of how the government intends to prepare for the next heating season?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U548	Well, honourable questioner, I would first like to comment on the price question. I guess you weren't in the hall when I told you that we were all responsible for the price that is now. And there is no point in pretending that [some] parties were not in government, all parties practically in this Chamber were in government and all parties made their decisions. And this policy, which has evolved for years in the direction we have reached, is what we know today, and it is expressed in the numbers that we have. It is clear that today's situation is extreme, and it is not a situation that is planned or sensible, or anyone could foresee it. But, unfortunately, I should have thought of that, this extreme case. I should have thought about what would happen if this were to happen. But as far as your question is concerned, of course, the government will discuss and think about what to do to resolve this situation. The Commission discussed the same measures that were applied during the winter. It is expected that these measures could continue to be implemented when a new heating season comes. These measures worked well. Yeah, it's kind of weird when you pick up money from people in one pocket, put it in another pocket and share it. This is not, I think, the most effective and sensible system in my personal opinion. But, unfortunately, this system has been designed. And here the Chamber has several times recalled this carbon trading system. I guess we were all about when this system was implemented, we all wanted it to come out better, but it suffers, well, you could say, the whole of Europe. Europe as a whole must pay the price of CO2 and perhaps not the fair price. Evaluate what really develops in a speculative way. But to offer a better system, well, I haven't heard that there are any versions of how to make it better or change it. As far as your question is concerned, of course, the questions you have asked are correct, but we could stay within the framework of the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U549	No further questions. Thank you! I will open negotiations and recall that representatives of the political groups will get the floor here. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas! [[Henn Põljaas wants more time.]] Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U550	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, Estonia is in a disastrous situation. While in other parts of Europe inflation is 5%, 6% or 7%, in Estonia it is almost 20%, slightly below. We'll see what's going on elsewhere. People are on the streets, protesting against high energy prices and inflation, people rebel, governments act. There is silence in Estonia. We do not have any plans for the government to stop, how to slow down the rise in energy prices, the resulting inflation, the wild driving inflation of goods, commodities, foodstuffs, housing, etc. There is no understanding of the depth of the problem, much less of an elementary strategy. Eesti Pank analysed and forecast inflation at 7% last year. Today it's nearly three times bigger. What does it say about our analysts at Eesti Pank and their competence? What does it say about our government? Looks like they're living in that kind of wishful thinking. They also believe today that inflation is 7% and, well, it is not so bad, but the Estonian people will survive it. We saw this already last autumn, when the price increase started galloping and when the Prime Minister announced that Estonian households were not affected, they would survive. Yes, a person survives all sorts of things. He'll survive the war if he succeeds. But in a normal society it is not necessary to have such a mentality that let the people impoverish, let entrepreneurs and companies go bankrupt, let the competitiveness of Estonia fail, though Estonian households and people get over it. What's the weirdest thing? Or rather, it's not strange, it's completely characteristic of the Reform Party. If we look back, all the components that we have raised the price of electricity are due to the action of the Reform Party. All excise duties, network charges, renewable energy charges, ampere charges, all those charges that have nothing to do with the market or economic logic, all of which are set under the rule of the Reform Party. And we see perfectly where it's taken us. We see what this CO2 trading system means, without which our electricity price might be somewhere between 30 and 40 euros megawatts, but for which we paid even 1,000 and today we pay 300+. We see the absurd effect of participating in the Nord Pool power exchange on the price of electricity when electricity purchased on the same stock exchange costs less than here in Sweden and Finland. We see the government stripping huge CO2 quotas from oil shale plants. Eesti Energia's profits are record, with hundreds of millions of dividends coming. But the people are only impoverished. For each electricity bill, the above mentioned excise duties and network charges and renewable energy charges and VAT will be added to the electricity cost or price, which will significantly increase the bill. We have repeatedly put forward all kinds of proposals over time, ever since this crisis started last autumn, how to bring down the price of energy, how to prevent this terrible inflation and price increase, which makes poor beggars, middle class people poor, ruins our entire society. But last but not least, it has come from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia or from any other party that is not a government department, all has been rejected without any discussion, without any discussion. Because the government just doesn't care. The government is not interested in the welfare of our people, our country or anyone. The government is only interested in how to fill all kinds of green turns from loyal Brussels, because the green turn can no longer be spoken of; it is real madness. We would have had all the oil shale boilers standing up next year on the crazy decision of the Reform Party, who once again drove this Põxit, oil shale energy abandoning thing. Can you imagine what would have happened if the Estonian Conservative People's Party had not been in government in the meantime and annulled this decision? Not only are we completely beggared, we sit in the dark and cold. In the dark and cold we will probably have to sit in the next fall anyway and in the next winter, because we will see how this problem is getting worse and worse without the government going to do anything at all. And we're told fairy tales that this is Putin's price increase. All right, in the case of gas, oil and these fuels, I can agree, but the rise in electricity prices is purely artificial by the European Union and our own government. If it is not brought down, the consequences will be catastrophic. People's savings are running out, pensions, wages, wages, all have eaten up inflation. And if we are already among the poorest countries in the European Union, we will soon fall into the poorest countries in the world. Does that record make us proud? Absolutely not. The government that takes us to such a gorge must fall because there is no other way, or the nation and the country will fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U551	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please! [[Heiki Hepner requests more time.]] Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U552	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is, undoubtedly, an extremely important issue in the current situation. We tend to say that today's situation in Estonia is as it was during the war. There's a certain truth in it. Indeed, what is happening in Ukraine has undoubtedly affected us, and we also need to think about how to protect our country. But energy security is absolutely part of the same set. This security means not only that we have electricity to burn a lamp in the room, but also that it can be bought and consumed at a reasonable price. In this sense, this draft decision is undeniably exceptionally topical. We know very well how it was here at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year with energy prices. Indeed, we can also say that it was already affected to some extent by Russian manipulations on the gas market, which had some effect on electricity prices. This is more bizarre when hands are spread over it and it is said that there is nothing we can do to make it even more reasonable and affordable for our people. And really, its one output is inflation. When we look at inflation elsewhere in Europe, Urmas Reinsalu quite rightly pointed out at the presentation of the bill that, when it was 6% in Germany, the Bundestag called an extraordinary session, they discussed what to do, because it is not possible to maintain the country normally with a low inflation rate. We have this 18.8%, almost 20%, and nothing. It also reflects the fact that there is no desire and no desire to think about how to make the price of electricity, which has a very significant impact, a very important component in the development of this inflation even more reasonable. I just looked at the price of CO2 here at the beginning of the week at EUR 90 per tonne. 90 euros a tonne! When this carbon trade began to be shaped, it was said that to motivate the transition to renewable energy and less fossil fuels, EUR 10 per tonne, this is the minimum level that we should still have. We remember that there were actually periods in which it was even less than 10 euros. When he went up there, they started to say 25 euros a ton. Well, that's what it is. Yeah. When we went over it proudly, it started to be said that 30 euros a ton, that's where he shouldn't get any higher. We have 90 euros, which means we have three times the size. I am convinced that today's Government of the Republic will accept this as a great gift, with which, for God's sake, nothing should be done. Very good, if he were to rise even more, because then that money would run directly to the Government of the Republic into a budget where they could, at their own discretion, relocate it to what they think is right, take it from our people's pockets. Then let our people come to the cave, and [ask], will you give us something to burn a lamp in the room? At the same time, the Government of the Republic itself says: what we can do, what it comes from Brussels, is impossible to do anything, although we will help you, but it is not possible to help. It's awkward to look at such double-facedness. Once again, I would like to bring out of this chair very specific things that the Fatherland is putting before the government, which we should implement immediately. You could say it's getting late, but it's better late than never. As a new universal service, electricity sellers have an obligation to offer small customers an off-exchange electricity package, the pricing of which is coordinated with the Competition Authority. Nord Pool's electricity market in the Estonian price area has an obligation to sell directly, without intermediary of the stock exchange, the electricity needed to meet the new universal service obligation. The pricing shall be based on the costs of generating electricity and on the return on capital in accordance with the rules laid down by the Competition Authority and the prices shall be coordinated with the Competition Authority. Perhaps no one wants to get electricity below cost, but there will also be a reasonable return and profit for this price of electricity. Anyone who says that is misturing and just doesn't want to deal with the problem. Finally, in the form of a budget allocation to electricity producers, the State compensates for the cost of the CO2 quota for electricity produced as a universal service. Maybe the same CO2 that already triples the price of electricity that we could consume it and which not only makes it impossible for our people to cope normally, but also destroys our economy in the most direct way. It simply cannot be accepted at all, and it should be put to work immediately. Another point, which may not have a direct bearing on this, but which reflects very well the attitude that today's government has or how today's government works, [this] is a reduction in gas consumption. We know that gas prices will rather rise and gas will become a deficit for the next heating period. What has the government done to find substitute sources? Nothing! Today we should work on this and think about how to transfer our boiler houses to wood heating, how to create an additional national reserve when using peat. But what doesn't exist is that it's not done. So with all of this, the Government of the Republic actually marginalizes this herbaceous, sensible herbal cord, because it makes it impossible for people to live in the context of this green turn, and that is also a very, very bad case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U553	Okay, no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have also received one amendment that we need to examine. We have received one amendment from the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. Nobody else wants to vote for it. The commission's proposal is for a final vote and we need to prepare it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are discussing the draft decision of the Riigikogu on Proposal for the Government of the Republic, tabled by the Isamaa Group, 549 and we have come to the proposal of the lead committee, which is to pass the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" tabled by the Isamaa Group 549. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U554	With the result of 10, against 36, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U555	Let us move on to our eighth item. This is draft law 605 on changes to the Family Benefits Act, Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would point out that we are in the middle of a second reading, but the Government of the Republic has asked for this item to be linked to a matter of trust. The Chair is welcome by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalu. I would also like to draw attention to how we deal with this point, as well as the next three points. The procedure is as follows: First, the representative of the Government of the Republic will be present for up to 20 minutes, then each member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask up to two oral questions. I will then open negotiations and no amendments will be put to the vote. This will be followed by a final vote. Now, please, Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U556	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, the draft law 605 is aimed at amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Health Services Organisation Act, but there are further amendments to the amendments. First of all, it is a little while since the first reading, which is the content of the original draft, and then I come to the amendments. First of all, I am pleased to say that the amendments to the Social Welfare Act are largely aimed at supporting our own Estonian population, our own people. And if we have talked about the difficult economic situation of people in inflation, it will help people to cope better with bank loans and interest when calculating the income limit and determining the amount of support. The assumption is, of course, that a person can prove that he or she has a bank loan, but he or she cannot pay it, and he or she has tried to take a payment leave. Once these things have been verified, it will be possible to receive such assistance and support within six months of receiving the assistance and support from the local government for a period of one year. The second amendment concerns the register of social services and benefits. You know that we have talked for a long time about the compensation for the rent of refugees for 900 euros. That is the maximum, it is not an obligation to pay out to that extent. In order to also reflect the necessary data in the Social Services and Support Data Register, this draft contains changes as well as details of the data that can and may be published in the STAR Register for war refugees. The additional change is also linked to the arrival of war refugees in Estonia, but it gives confidence to those pensioners who wish to rent or rent a war refugee, but therefore would be deprived of the support of a single pensioner living alone in the autumn. This is an amendment to the law, according to which it is possible to gain the confidence that renting a refugee in war will not lose the support of a pensioner living alone. An important clarification is for local authorities that if they process and do administrative procedures related to costs, they will receive a more generous payment for this. We are also amending the Health Services Organisation Act, which is intended to allow the health insurance fund's price list to assist war refugees who have arrived here, as well as those who have come here wounded from the war and need treatment. It has to be said that there are no Ukrainian soldiers like that in hospitals in the hospital network at the moment who are being treated here. It's been brought into the law as a possibility. Since I also mentioned the Family Benefits Act, the amendment to the Family Benefits Act is technical. We will specify the provisions on the upper limit of parental benefit in a situation where the parent has not actually worked enough before taking parental leave. Now to the amendments. In total, there are nine amendments: five from the lead committee and four from the Isamaa Group. I'll go through them all one by one so you can get a good look at the changes. As further laws were included in the draft, which is intended to be clarified within the framework of this draft, the Social Affairs Committee has proposed to transform the title of the draft into the "Law on Family Benefits, the Law on Social Welfare and other Acts." This has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment has come from the Isamaa Group and it relates to the fact that in another amendment they have proposed to amend two other laws, and they have also proposed to change the name of this draft in such a way that all draft amendments are included in the title. This has been discussed by the commission and the decision has been dismissed. The third amendment also concerns the much talked about compensation for starting rent for war refugees. Here is the desire to amend § 133 (2) of the Social Welfare Act, so that the benefits and incomes that are not included in the income of a person or family living alone in the calculation of income support can also be considered as compensation that we offer to refugees at the start of a rental relationship. Let it be noted again that these amounts are up to 900 euros under the law in force and if the Riigikogu adopts an additional budget, it is up to 1200 euros. It is important that a person does not lose income support to receive this benefit, and this correction gives this assurance. The commission has submitted it, and the government's proposal is to take full account of it. Now, the next amendment, No 4, is a proposal which is support for mitigating price increases. This is a measure designed by the government to ensure that families and pensioners raising children receive one-off support in the autumn of November. He or she is set up in such a way that a lump sum allowance of EUR 50 is considered to be a social benefit and is entitled to it by the person who is paid child benefit for November this year under the Family Benefits Act. It is not the family that has the right to receive the allowance, but each individual child. This may depend on the number of children in the family, for example EUR 50 for one child and EUR 150 for three children. As an intermediate remark, social benefits are also covered by benefits or incomes which are not regarded as income when calculating income support. So this does not interfere with the family's ability to receive additional benefits, which are income support. Now, those persons who meet one of the following conditions in November of this year are also eligible for support. The old-age pensioner must be of old-age age, I stress, an old-age pensioner, which means that the two conditions must be met at the same time. In addition, a person who has a 100% disability recognised under the State Pension Insurance Act, i.e. a total incapacity for work, is paid in the event of incapacity for work or disability of a national pension. In the same way, if a person has a lack of work capacity established under the Invalidity Act, he or she will be paid a disability allowance. These two groups are very similar groups, just in the case of the other group, we are talking about people with incapacity for work and they are paid disability benefit. These are people of working age and whether they are still beneficiaries of one or another type of support or benefit before reforms. But the group is essentially the same. In addition, there is one small group, these are persons who are beneficiaries of old-age social security benefits under the Welfare Act. This group is a few hundred people, and here we are talking about those Estonian people who have lived abroad and returned to Estonia for retirement. People do not have to make applications to pay the grant, it is fit for purpose, so that it can be paid in the simplest way possible. It will be paid out in November. So the beneficiaries of child benefits are simply receiving a higher amount of child benefit that month. It does not involve additional activities or responsibilities for people. So this is a measure, one-off aid to our own people. The government's proposal is to take full account of this change as well. The fifth amendment relates to a situation that once again relates to war refugees, but this time to minors. We have some 38,500 war refugees here, 33% of them underage, as of this morning. We have a little over 40 unaccompanied minors, to whom parents have come for later, they are not all in substitution care. We have 18 unaccompanied minors in replacement custody. However, we do have a number of minors who have come here with an older mandate from Ukraine, and they have been given to raise acquaintances. They are either Ukrainian people who have come with children, or they have family acquaintances here in Estonia. According to Estonian law, which is very compatible with international law, in such cases children must be given a guardian in order to guarantee their rights. The rules for determining custody in Estonia are such that after first legal protection, which can be done very quickly, we must reach the decision of the main court within a month. But if we have a lot of children, now we have 70 applications for custody in court, it concerns more than 80 children. As an intermediate remark: in Estonia, the number of children in custody in the family is a thousand to 18 years old, which means that the burden that has arisen for both courts and local governments is unreasonable. And therefore, a solution has been proposed that has been guided by the Temporary Protection Directive of the European Union, making use of the deadlines for children to stay here in Estonia, and extending temporary or initial legal protection in accordance with the right to stay here for children. The maximum time is up to one year and can also be extended if necessary so that it should not be shown separately that children do not have a parent who can perform custody duties here in Estonia. It should also be stressed that such judicial cooperation between Estonia and Ukraine is governed by the legal aid agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine in civil and criminal matters. That is also why we must be responsible for protecting these children here. On the basis of this agreement, valid court decisions are generally mutually recognised, but today we are in a situation where children have come here and have no custody parent. The sixth amendment has come from the Isamaa Group and it is an amendment proposing to increase the basic pension and national pension rates by 20 euros already since 1 July this year and not to implement it in the way that the government has previously offered and which the Riigikogu has approved since 1 January 2023. This amendment has been disregarded insofar as it is difficult to assume financial commitments that would be separately in the supplementary budget and, therefore, in the second draft. The seventh amendment is similarly proposed by the Isamaa Group and the present draft is intended to introduce an exemption from income tax on the average old-age pension for people of pensionable age from 1 July this year in order to improve their livelihood. The Government's reasoning is the same: the Riigikogu's will has been to bring this change into effect since 1 January 2023, and since it is a cost of nearly 100 million, we cannot take it into account here at this time in the middle of the financial year. The eighth amendment is once again a proposal from the Isamaa Group. This is a proposal relating to implementation deadlines, resulting from two earlier amendments, i.e. pensions and increases, and the entry into force of the provisions relating to income tax exemption. In applying logic, if we ignore the changes ourselves, then these dates of entry into force must also not be implemented. The ninth and last changes are the dates of entry into force. The dates of entry into force are designed so that the change relating to the support of a single-living pensioner we would apply retroactively from 9 March if, in the intervening period, a person of retirement age living alone had taken up a refugee so that he would not lose the support of a single-living pensioner in the autumn. I would point out that this is when a retired person has decided to rent a refugee in war. This is no obligation for anyone. The amendments to the articles of association will enter into force on the day following the publication in the Official Journal of the State, i.e. in general order. However, they will expire on 4 March 2025 when the deadlines under the European Union Directive have expired and the legal basis for temporary protection for minors has passed. Changes relating to the mortgage or the possibility to take into account the mortgage when granting income support will take effect from 1 July of this year and the relief from the price increase will take effect in the normal manner, i.e. on the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. It is valid until 31 May 2023. Here is also a small explanation: although the measure, the financial support will be paid out to people in November of this year, in certain cases people will have the right to apply retroactively, it will be a maximum of six months, and in that case we will also be planning payments until this right is exercised or effective. The government is asking for this change to be taken into account in this form too; everything is planned in a way that supports our people. I thank you, and I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U557	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U558	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! There are many good things in this law that are certainly very necessary. My question concerns what is meant by the repayment of loans. I also asked this question in the Committee on Social Affairs. In fact, I didn't get an answer in the sense of how it was planned. Today, I have been approached by a number of representatives of local governments, social workers, who are very concerned, because this point will enter into force as from 1 July. The essence of the question is that. The loans are very different, their length, their maturity is very different, their loan amounts are very different, their repayment amounts, with interest and insurance premiums, as you have even said here, are very different. On what basis can local authorities establish a border? The local government council will lay down these conditions for the payment of a well-known income support. Okay, the rental market, that's understandable, we know that, but in the case of loans, one steps through the door, his loan is 800 euros a month, the other has 300.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U559	Thank you very much for your question. As I replied at first reading, it is indeed left to the local authorities to decide, as are the limits of other housing costs. But I can assure you that the Social Insurance Board, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, is preparing a separate guide for local governments to guide local governments and to set their own limits better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U560	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U561	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are certainly many good things in this bill and we recognise them. But you really love to write these temporary things all the time with war refugees on billboards. I'm still coming back to the pensioner who lives alone. Ukraine's status as a war refugee is known to be changing; at one point it is no longer a war refugee, is it not, because either the war is over or the three years, which is the maximum rate, will be over? Will this single-living pensioner lose this support? Are you going to change the law or what's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U562	Thank you very much. This change is indeed temporary. The answer I would like to give is not directly related to this draft, but the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to develop a reasonable need-based support covering both the survivor's pension for older people, the allowance for a single-living pensioner and the revision of disability benefits. I fully agree that the design of the pensioner's allowance, which is also a very simple one, i.e. the electronic collection of data from databases and payments are made on the basis of it, saves people and institutions from administrative procedures, but that is why many people fall between the gears. A person who, in fact, lives alone but has some other family members enrolled will lose his allowance. So designing this whole package to make sense and support people is planned. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U563	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U564	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The relief provided by this bill to Estonian families is, of course, necessary, but let us admit that it is microscopic, especially given inflation, which, moreover, is still gaining strength. According to the draft, for example, in the case of income support, the reimbursement of a loan for the purchase of housing is added to the list of housing costs to be taken into account. At the same time, however, the banks do not grant housing loans to those who receive incomes of the minimum wage, which is why it is of no use at all. The purchasing power of the Estonian minimum wage is one of the lowest in Europe, with Germany, for example, remaining under twice and a half times in Slovenia. I ask you how you believe that our minimum wage and wage growth have been affected at all by the import of cheap labour, which now, according to recent data, increased sharply last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U565	Thank you for your question. I must first come to the fact that, of course, it is possible for banks to give bank loans to those people who have a secure, stable and sufficient income, who are able to return this loan. For those people who have home and housing problems but do not have sufficient and stable [income] to give the bank and the family confidence that it is possible to take out a bank loan, the local government is obliged to provide social housing if the person cannot find a home, nor can it be found in the rental market. I would remind you all that we are talking about the Social Welfare Act, we are not talking about social security mechanisms or major social protection structures. These are aid measures granted to people who are temporarily or in the long term in financial difficulties. This bill, as well as the entire Social Welfare Act, will not solve the problems of the whole world. As far as labour issues are concerned, I welcome the fact that our unemployment rates are very good, which means that there are enough people in employment, even when compared to the COVID years, we are in a good position. And I also welcome the fact that over 30% of Ukrainians who come here from working age, who, I emphasise, have mostly higher education, who is female and aged 24 to 54, have received jobs that are precisely in the service sector and cheaper places of work that our people have been afraid to accept.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U566	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U567	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! In fact, there is still a problem with this point when this guide is still being drawn up for municipalities and social workers. Now, how many Mays? The councils are in place for this month. In June usually council meetings are held before Midsummer Day. These materials must be prepared. Of course, local authorities will meet in exceptional circumstances, if necessary, but the law will enter into force on 1 July. In fact, these guidance materials should have been prepared by now so that people would know how to proceed. Today, I also had contact with the Union of Cities and Municipalities. They don't really have clarity either. Were they involved in this process? Because in the Committee on Social Affairs, we also heard the dangers that the bank's representatives pointed out in relation to this point. I very much feel that a person should not lose his home when he is in trouble. But it seems relatively difficult on the ground to develop a bank loan repayment. When they say that everything will be paid back, it's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U568	Thank you very much. Just in case, I'm gonna mark that local authorities are autonomous. Local authorities have a pretty high level of responsibility and decision-making when organising social welfare. In the case of income support, it is exactly the same that the local government already has its own competence to set limits in its own regulation. Here we can help and support local governments, but also our guidance materials, which we are preparing at the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board, are certainly not mandatory for local governments. We work closely with local authorities and try to find supporting measures to advise local authorities. The Social Insurance Board is also known to have a separate service, which is the local government advisory service. They can deal with the issues. With regard to the concerns raised by Eesti Pank in the Committee on Social Affairs, I believe that in the debate in the Commission, the people of my ministry adequately explained that this is not the risk that the banks have highlighted. Eesti Pank, not the commercial banks, pointed out the risk that people will continue to receive income support year after year in order to cover their bank loans. Mr Jaak White's question was also very good in this sense that those people who do not have a stable stable income would not receive a bank loan. Those who are ambitious and have improved their lives have the opportunity to obtain a loan from the bank. And if there is a temporary difficulty, I would stress: temporary difficulty, due to job loss or loss of income, we offer families this measure so that they do not lose their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U569	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U570	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is about the support for mitigating price increases, which is EUR 50, which is EUR 4 per month for 17 cents of such relief. What I am interested in is that, in a situation where we have so much value for life, people's purchasing power is reduced by EUR 230 per month at a salary of EUR 1500, which is more than a month's salary, no matter what version, or more than a month's pension. A person with a salary or a pension of one and a half is poorer, poorer than last year. And here it is 50 euros. Since there are no analyses here, perhaps you can enlighten the Riigikogu, which is the purpose of this support or what problem do you solve with 50 euros? I'd understand if child support had been raised or something. What about a one-time €50 grant? This analysis, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U571	Yeah. Thank you very much for your question. This is one of the government's many measures to improve people's well-being. I would like to remind you that today you have the opportunity to give your supportive vote to the draft law on additional budgets, which will increase the limit of your livelihood. In addition, in the draft that I am presenting, we are talking about the calculation of housing loans when granting income support. We have already adopted a law that raises the support of a single-living pensioner from EUR 115 to EUR 200. With this draft, we specify that if a person takes on a temporary Ukrainian war refugee, he will not be deprived of this [grant]. We have taken decisions with you, the Riigikogu, to raise 20 euros from 1 January 23 years of pensions, and we have taken a decision with you that the average pension is exempt from income tax. On 1 April of this year, the pension rose by 7.9%, representing an average of 42 euros per 44-year-old pensioner. This is one measure that we are talking about here. Every money, every resource that comes in addition to the family budget, is money that the family can use to cover their needs. That is why I do not think there is a need to ridicule this size. This is an opportunity that we have now envisaged in the supplementary budget. I very much hope that people will receive this support in November and can use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U572	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U573	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll pick up where you finished. Actually, that 50-euro support, I guess he's a little ridiculous in his size. Of course, every euro will help a person who is in trouble. But I also made sure that you were going to pay it out by 10 December at the latest. By the time you make this payout, the money will be reduced by another 10%, taking into account current inflation. Why, however, were you not prepared, at least for pensioners, to make the same 20-euro pension increase from 1 July, to bring an extraordinary pension increase from 1 January to 1 July, so that pensioners could actually get at least this money right away, start paying their increased electricity and other bills and buy even a meal? Food has also increased considerably. Why didn't you use that option anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U574	Thank you very much for your question. It was about what wages are, how we find cheap labour, and how we apply the outside workforce. In this situation in the social sector, I have [have seen] special care supervisors move away from work if they are offered seven euros higher monthly salary in the next institution. We need to understand that every euro is money for a person. In this sense, I really very much ask to be respectful of these amounts as well. Always gets more, always gets better. This is now our additional measure alongside all that I have just described in reply to the previous question. The sums that we have actually contributed on a need-based basis to the different target groups, whether it is a single-living pensioner or a pensioner at all, have still been significant. We have made a country's budgetary strategy last year with the view that we have a resource in the state budget to increase pensions by exceptionally 20 euros from 1 January 23, as well as to create a tax concession for pensioners. We have not seen the possibility in the government today that we would have done so earlier. Whatever we do, it's always about the sources of cover. And the clear absence of a source of cover is one reason. You might ask where the resources go. Over 800 million are additional budgets that will be discussed today. We know that in this supplementary budget there are both issues relating to energy security and, because of the war in Europe, there are additional obligations that we have to fulfil. And that is why Estonia's independence, the security of the Estonian person, internal security, international security, energy security, or a further six months of retirement are at stake, in a situation where the pension rose by 7.9% just a month ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U575	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U576	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm listening to you talk about energy here and everything else, but it looks like the trees are only hanging upstairs, and they don't know anything about the bottom end. One disabled person from Mõisaküla wrote to me, and he wrote: "My income and the income of many other cripples is 489 euros for lack of work ability and the disability allowance is 41 euros. " Maybe 531 euros. He or she will receive EUR 60.70 a month for medicines; he or she will basically have EUR 461. Let's split it up for a year, that's 15.36 euros a day. Tell me, or give me a guide, you're a high-ranking, smart person, how you can live with that kind of money, plus the four more euros we're about to get under this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U577	Thank you very much for your question. We have many people in Estonia who are complicated. In particular, these target groups are certainly people with special needs who are complex. But people with special needs are not all one homogeneous target group, including people with a wide range of abilities and with a view to life or involvement. A lot of people with special needs go to work. They contribute in this way to our society, including through tax payments, and receive additional benefits themselves. There are people who are unable to work, and their way of life is indeed linked to the system of grants. I would remind you that the disabled person's allowance is not paid to the disabled person because he or she lives for this resource, but because he or she can compensate for the additional needs of the disabled person. Maybe it's not to bring bread on the table. What else can a disabled person get, additional from the state? She receives rehabilitation services and also receives support services from local governments to cope with her daily life. Similarly, local authorities provide additional support. As far as medicines are concerned, people with special needs, people with disabilities, like all of us, have very high drug compensations. Perhaps these costs for a person have actually been reduced to quite a minimum. As well as a disabled person who cannot work, in certain cases, if he or she meets the criteria, depending on his or her housing costs, he or she is among the beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance. By adopting an additional budget today, you will give these people EUR 50 per month, provided that they live alone. If he lives with a variety of people, the calculations are more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U578	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U579	Thank you. Honourable Minister! You are trying to convince us here that it is not possible to introduce an exceptional pension increase and an average pension tax exemption from 1 January next year by 1 July of this year, as there are no sources of cover. But it seems to me that you do not orient yourself in the important numbers concerning your jurisdiction and the state budget, which is why I am asking. Please tell me how much a one-off allowance of EUR 50 for pensioners only EUR 50 for pensioners. What is the cost of a six-month average pension tax exemption and an increase in the base? How much has been received into the Estonian state budget in the first quarter of this year in relation to the prices of extremely high energy carriers? And how much have the state companies Elering and Eesti Energia earned in the last three months, when the price has been high? I'm not talking about December last year. These are some important figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U580	Thank you very much. The one-off benefit for pensioners, scheduled for November this year, is 17 million. The annual cost of an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 20 is in the order of 90 million. Similarly, the annual cost of reducing income tax on an average pension is around 90 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U581	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U582	Good manager! Dear waitress, Here is the case: if a single pensioner takes a Ukrainian refugee, he will have the hope that he will not lose his support. But my question is whether it concerns only refugees in Ukraine, or also those in Afghanistan or Syria. They're also fugitives. And the other is that there is a lot of people living alone, I'm not talking about pensioners. I see from Statistics Estonia that the relative poverty of households living alone is more than half, more than 50%. Isn't it meant for these people? If they take in a fugitive, will they get some kind of tax relief?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U583	Thank you very much. First of all, we are struggling to find a permanent residence in Estonia for 38,500 people. Therefore, we make this distinction to encourage people who have a room or a floor to rent out of their own dwelling. We encourage these people to do so, and we specifically encourage pensioners living alone with this provision, so that they have the confidence that they will not lose this EUR 200 support in the autumn. For all, regardless of their social status and livelihood, it is encouraging to say that it is precisely the income support scheme as a whole that the guarantee is that, if you take on the lease of war refugees, you will receive the housing costs of the refugee in accordance with the signed lease agreement, and that these costs will be compensated through the income support scheme. Perhaps he is able to pay the rent to an Estonian person. This is our system, contrary to the approaches of several other countries. Our system prefers Ukraine's war refugee to be responsible for his or her own life, to be responsible for both his or her income and expenses, to make efforts to find a job and also to register himself or herself in the local government. As a beneficiary of income support, he/she can also pay the costs of his/her rent himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U584	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U585	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I certainly do not ridicule those people who have to deal with small money, and I am absolutely convinced that every euro is important to them. I'm very critical that the Government of the Republic is helping them so badly, with an extra budget. Let's take the same 50 euros. Of course, it will help these people, but you will not even bother to pay it out on 1 July, but you will push it to December, during which the inflation rate has already eaten 10%, at least of that amount. At least 10%! Why do you do this when you say that seven euros will be transferred to another job, because every euro is important? Yes, I fully agree, every euro is important to these people. But why don't you pay it out on 1 July, even if you want to help them, but push it to the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U586	Thank you very much for your question. The measure envisaged within this EUR 50 framework is intended, inter alia, for rising energy prices in the autumn, which are likely to rise, and has therefore been proposed by the government to pay it out in November.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U587	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U588	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I still find it incomprehensible that if every month the amount of this allowance is 4 euros and 17 cents, but at the same time, the purchasing power of the 1500-euro wage recipient has been reduced by 230 euros, what is the expected effect here? By the way, the explanatory memorandum also states that, at the same time, one-off support does not affect the poverty indicators of the target groups in a longer-term perspective. I completely fail to understand what is then being asked for with this support. What effect do you seek? It's all unrecorded here. I would ask you this question: are we members of the Riigikogu able to ask you for this analysis, which actually shows the impact that you want to achieve, and what problem do you solve directly by doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U589	Thank you very much. As you read in the explanatory memorandum, you have quite rightly understood, one-off support does not really affect poverty indicators. One-off monthly commitments cannot be covered. Absolutely true. This is a one-off measure to ensure that the person in the month in question, as the government has found, can make these payments, which are potentially linked primarily to the increase in energy prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U590	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U591	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Since you have not answered the other side of my question, precisely what you yourself were very concerned about, namely the sources of cover for possible expenses, I will ask you again. In fact, what is the amount of taxes that you, as a member of the government, still have in such important matters, at least in the order of magnitude of the first quarter, received more than forecast in the state budget, and how much additional income have the state companies, in particular Eesti Energia and Elering, earned because of the high prices of energy carriers, VAT and excise duties, which could be a source of cover? Because if you do not orientate in the sources of cover, of course they cannot be used to make the necessary expenses. How much has been received?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U592	Thank you very much. I owe you an answer to that question. Firstly, it does not concern this particular draft. Secondly, the government usually works together in search of the sources of cover. Therefore, in order to find these sources of cover, sensible, necessary expenditure, the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy are being prepared for six months. In-depth calculations are being made, forecasts coming in autumn will also be reviewed to make the right choices and help our people the most. This is not the situation and practice that has been agreed today, but it has been year after year, so that decisions are taken in the course of the country's budgetary strategy relating to high and sustained expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U593	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U594	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's a shame how you make distinctions like that. You just take advantage of the pensioners. In the meantime, it has not mattered at all how a single-living pensioner can cope, who brings him a tree in, for example, or how he can do his chores. But if the Ukrainians have been introduced as your own government's decision, you will simply make the pensioner depend on it, given our small pensions, you will make pensioners depend on your will, so that they will have no choice but to take someone with them in order to receive a small pension supplement. What makes these situations different for pensioners? The situation that he now has Ukrainians on his living space, I'm not talking about the financial side, and the fact that he lives alone, what do you think will make him better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U595	Thank you for your question. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has certainly not caused the situation that Putin attacked Ukraine, caused the war and thus the flow of war refugees to European countries. EUR 115 has been raised to EUR 200 when we talk about pensioners living alone, this autumn they will receive significantly more one-off support. I would remind you that, even for pensioners living alone, the pension increase was 7.9%, for the average pension recipient, for the 44-year period 42 euros. They are no different from other pensioners. And no human being will be rewarded for taking the Ukrainian refugee war as an ally. It simply retains the existing right to the benefit of a single-living pensioner today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U596	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U597	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I did not receive a partial answer to my previous question. We are helping Ukrainian war refugees to live alone, but there are also Syria and Afghanistan and there are crises elsewhere. Are they gonna be sidelined? But now there are 38,000 refugees, you're in trouble. Have you also discussed how many of these single-living pensioners have already made themselves known to you, who would be willing to do so? And where do these pensioners mostly live? If you look at the map of Estonia, you can see that some of the poorest places, such as Valgamaa, have been particularly flooded with refugees, but poverty is also the greatest there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U598	Thank you for your question. The maintenance of the benefit of a single-living pensioner is linked to the beneficiaries of temporary protection. The beneficiary of temporary protection is a Ukrainian citizen and a member of his family who has come to Estonia since 24 February, in accordance with the European Union Directive, which we have taken over with reservations. This means that the Syrian person is not included, unless he or she is a member of the family of a Ukrainian citizen who has come to Estonia on 24 February this year. Fifty-six people come to Estonia a year as migrants who want international protection. Neither does the sub-tenantisation of these people come with this distinction. I repeat, the people who come here as a military fugitive in Ukraine do not come here of free will. That's one. Secondly, they have the basis for their stay here, even if they do not apply for temporary protection, the visa-free regime that we have in Schengen. This means that these people are here, they come here and live among us, and our duty and opportunity is to provide them with this platform, so that they can be independent, participate in working life, contribute to our country, learn the Estonian language and cope with it. With regard to single-living pensioners, it will never happen that a single-living pensioner to the Ministry of Social Affairs or, God forbid, the Minister must be informed that he wants to take someone as a subtenant. It is a registry-based system and it does not need to be applied for or a separate application. I have no record of how many pensioners living alone have taken Ukrainian war refugees today or expressed their desire to accommodate them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U599	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U600	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will stick to my own words: it is shamefully hypocritical and two-faced. At the moment, there is a situation in which a single-living pensioner cannot take up residence, for example, with his grandson, who is from a family of many children, because then the pensioner loses his allowance, but at the same time this law can take in the Ukrainian family, because then the support will be maintained. Explain why this distinction is now being made. That's a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U601	Thank you very much. Look, if a person lives alone, he'll cover the housing expenses alone. When pensioners live alone, as a couple, they also share these expenses from their pension. Support for a live-in pensioner is designed to help and support the group of pensioners at the highest risk of poverty. It is then, when it is designed, consciously made in such a way as to really help a single-living pensioner. If he or she lives with other family members or relatives, they and any other person will be involved in covering their own housing costs. As I have already said today, redesigning the allowance for a single-living pension, in conjunction with a survivor's pension, as well as a disabled parent's or retirement age pension, is planned. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will also be able to hold these debates in no very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U602	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U603	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, then you could just rent a tenant, so why does a Ukrainian have to take it? It really doesn't make any sense. We understand very well what this whole ideology is all about. The idea of ideology is to anchor tens and tens of thousands of non-Estonians carried here in Estonia, to Russ Estonia, to make Estonia a bilingual state. That is the purpose of this government. And to claim that it is not your fault that these people have come here, that Putin is guilty of not knowing who set these buses in motion between Poland and who is currently taking them across the Russian border. It's a question. But we figured it out, by the way. It's an extra budget, and it's all worth 272 million. Again, the government is lying that 240 things were there. 272 million! At the same time, you are talking about how it is not possible to increase child benefits because there is no money for this. It's the same size of money. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please tell us why you discriminate against our own Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U604	We certainly do not discriminate against our own Estonian people. Speaking of the activities of this government in bringing war refugees here, I say that the budget of the Republic of Estonia has certainly not brought the war refugees here or the costs of buses have not been covered. However, we have over 80% of the inhabitants of Estonia who support helping war refugees in Estonia. And these same people have been kind donors, in order that non-profit organizations among them are refugee aid, Mondo, but not only, there have been others, and there have been very many of them, and in the first weeks and month of the war, they have been able to support Ukrainian war refugees and arrange for them to be brought to Estonia. I repeat: the Estonian Government has not spent its time bringing war refugees here. With regard to the increase in child benefits, with an additional budget, we are planning expenditure that is additional, extraordinary, due to the situation that has led us to war in Europe, which has been caused by our own people's livelihoods and which are essential for energy security. When we talk about raising children's benefits, these costs are for years and years and cannot be discussed in an additional budgetary framework. The additional budget expenditure is this year's expenditure. The rise in child benefits is the cost of this and all subsequent years when this law is passed here. But especially in the context of this draft procedure by the Riigikogu, it has been a cost since the beginning of next year, and it makes more sense to make these decisions and choices, just as it is customary for the government, during the discussions and procedure of the state's budget strategy, when we have both the economic forecast and all the other needs. And I cannot fail to stress that, as Minister for Social Protection, I feel a huge responsibility towards those who care for their loved ones at home and are therefore excluded from the labour market. This affects our society very much in many ways. Women are mainly in the care of family members at home, and we produce more of this target group, who is not able to cope with retirement age, because care for a family member at home, income is not earned, social tax is not paid, and pension remains very modest. On the other hand, there is no labour market and there is no income to pay taxes to the state so that we can discuss here today how much and to whom we can share additional benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U605	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U606	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! So I'm just trying to ask you that it wouldn't be difficult to understand this question again. Can you tell us what changes in this bill are the face of the Reform Party and what changes are the face of the Centre Party to understand why the Head of Government has said that this bill needs to be linked to a vote of confidence? It would just be good for both voters and ambassadors to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U607	Thank you very much. There are two political parties in the government. And two political parties in the government have proposed a vote of confidence. I mean, the amendments we see here are the face of the government, so two parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U608	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U609	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, frankly, you must think I'm stupid. You have that right, of course. But you know very well that all these human rights centres and other organisations receive a lot of money from the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries' budgets, annual grants. If they bring tens of thousands of so-called war refugees here, why does the state take care of the people they brought here and neglect its people? If they did, they should take care of it. Doesn't make sense? I can also start bringing people from Latin America, somewhere in Mexico, where gangs kill people by village, and tell them that you see, I brought them here, I brought them out of terrible circumstances, but now, country, be good, stain, pay, give us a place to eat three times a day, a health insurance card, and so on and so forth. That's not what you're telling us. Don't lie to us. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The state is involved in bringing these people, and the state has taken money from its people...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U610	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U611	... their maintenance to themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U612	Thank you very much for your question. I can assure you that neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor the Social Insurance Board has signed any additional agreements with regard to war refugees in Ukraine. Yes, we have one agreement that has already been concluded with refugee aid before the war begins. The subject of this agreement is a support service for beneficiaries of international protection, I stress: to beneficiaries of international protection, not to beneficiaries of temporary protection, and this is nothing to do with Ukrainian war refugees, because other target groups must be assisted in fulfilling the conditions of this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U613	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U614	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have this question that relates to the concept of family, because here the day before yesterday, the Prime Minister, answering my question, said that we have no definition of family. We're talking about a member of the family of a beneficiary of temporary protection. But how is it defined, controlled, or estimated that this person is accompanied by people who are members of his family? How is it controlled or used?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U615	Thank you. This question is certainly more for the Minister of the Interior. I may be wrong in the details, but basically we are talking about the husband and children, but we are also talking about the family members who have come here from a Ukrainian citizen in a refugee war. It can be an adult unable family member, among other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U616	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U617	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I look at Amendment 3, which states that the cost of signing a rental contract and translation service for a dwelling is EUR 900.1200. The maximum price for one page of a sworn translator is 20 euros and the standard contracts are 10 pages, that is 200 euros. Who has given such input that 900.1200 can go to these expenses? And is there an open list of these translation service providers, or is this list already closed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U618	Thank you. To be precise, this is the provisions of the law on granting international protection to an alien, where these limits have long been introduced into the legal space of Estonia. We're not making them up here and now. This 1200 is also linked to raising the level of coping. It is not intended to cover all costs, but to compensate for them in part and on an ad hoc basis. And the law on granting international protection to aliens must be guided here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U619	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U620	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have before us an additional budget for the protection of Estonia, consisting of four laws, which the government has linked to the matter of trust since the second reading. There are four laws, but the content about them is one: how to better protect Estonia after the full-scale war that started on 24 February in Ukraine. To save our precious time together, I will all talk about the extra budget here at once and ask Parliament to support all four drafts in the government's vote of confidence. In fact, it is sad that the government was forced to go down the path of commitment to trust here, because it will kill the debate that was planned for the whole Parliament, including all the opposition's amendments. Unfortunately, however, the coalition did not have a second choice, as it was impossible to process the budget normally with hundreds and hundreds of amendments tabled by the EKRE. If we started voting through them one by one, we'd be sitting here longer than the Midsummer Day. At the same time, we need an additional budget now, for example, in order to pay out the May allowances to the families of Estonia who need it most, on the basis of the raised subsistence limit. I would like all the EKRE ambassadors to explain to their constituents, each of them, why they are holding back the defence of Estonia by all the means at their disposal, why we have completely suspended the work of a single power, a legislative power, in the most difficult security situation in the period of independence. This is not in Estonia's interests, it is in the interests of those who do not wish us well. Let's take a closer look at what the horror EKRE is trying to slow down here. Firstly, strengthening internal and external security, which is essential for increasing military defence capabilities, but at the same time also increases our internal security and prepares us for crises. Secondly, strengthening energy security, for which we will allocate EUR 257.3 million. And thirdly, to cover the primary costs of war refugees, for which we will allocate EUR 242.7 million. In order to strengthen Estonia's broad-based security and resilience, the additional budget is EUR 247,6 million. Specifically, it's going to be $15.66 million for the Department of Defense. I would stress that this is not the total cost, but only the part that the Ministry will need during the current calendar year. The government has decided to add 850 million to Estonia's defence capabilities, with hundreds of millions being covered by very favourable contracts for Estonia today, as the first decisions were made by the government already in January. In addition, the additional budget is more than EUR 80 million for the Ministry of the Interior to set up, for example, shelters and air alarm systems. I would stress that there is no immediate military threat to Estonia, nor will there be any immediate threat to Estonia in the coming months. Thus, the money for the protection of the population has been invested in an extremely timely manner, but not for the EKRE, which is currently blocking its allocation. Why do you not support the protection of Estonia? Explain this to your constituents. Another about a quarter million euros goes to ensure Estonia's energy security. The government made a very simple decision: no more cents for Putin's war machine. In order to fulfil this request, we will create the capacity to accept LNG in cooperation with the private sector in Estonia, and we will be able to do so in the months we have read and buy gas for the winter. This excellent plan also stands before the cross of the EKRE. Why do you want to buy gas from Putin? Please explain to your constituents. We are giving money to cover the costs of the refugee crisis unleashed by Putin. I stress that war refugees arrive in Estonia... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U621	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U622	... that 80% of the refugees, women and children who arrive in Estonia, have largely received an excellent reception, and all our people, volunteers and civil servants must be thanked for this. Of course, there is an exceptional cost of helping their jobs and school places. But if we make this system work effectively, we will get some of this money back as additional tax revenue and as a value created in our country. And we're gonna give a nip to Putin, who hoped that the new refugee crisis would tear European society apart. By the way, with this money, we are not creating any striking welfare state for refugees in Estonia. We guarantee them the minimum, the same as for the people of Estonia. But also this clever one has an EKRE obstruction. Why are you preventing children and women fleeing bombs and tanks from receiving and helping them? Explain this to your constituents. A few more things that the EKRE's blocking. Funding for food security, so that Estonian farmers are equal to their competitors in other countries and can produce Estonian food for Estonian people. Reduction of excise duty on special purpose fuel, as well as support for farmers. Raising the income limit to 200 euros. Lowering the value added tax (VAT) of the press to create a level playing field in the information war. One-off support of EUR 50 for children and pensioners to cope with high prices. If there were an EKRE, we'd be dealing with these good and necessary things here through the summer or they'd be gone at all. That is why the government has linked the extra budget and related laws to its trust. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support all these four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U623	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U624	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the additional budget is only point 11. Was it so tempting for Mr. Networker to start cursing the EKRE that he didn't suffer? I'd still like to talk about the bill we're dealing with right now, 605 SE. But I cannot fail to point out that the President of the Reform Party Group was sowing a lot of lies, sowing half-truths, showing things wrong, even the fall of VAT on the same press. That's what you give millions to millionaires. That's what it really means. And the Reform Party, which also speaks as a defender of the Estonian people, the middle class, supports your policy, where you simply give millions to millionaires. But I'm coming to this 605. It is, of course, a good idea to consider home loan repayments as a cost of housing when determining income support. The EKRE supports this measure. It is also good and necessary to ease price increases. But more needs to be done. If you're fingering one-off subsidies here, inflation, all this price growth, energy prices, will eat it all. In fact, people are still poorer when taking into account these lump sums. More needs to be done. The most vulnerable situation today is that of families of many children. We must urgently find a way to provide additional support to young families. It should also be done to ensure that, at the birth of each child, for example, for a family of four children, the home loan can start to be compensated, the mortgage payment, so that we will reduce the mortgage payment again with the birth of each child. Whether the state pays support to the family or compensates for the home loan, these technical nuances must be resolved. But actually, we should start working on it. These small grants, such as EUR 50, are of course helpful, but they do not really solve major concerns. Inflation and price increases are terrible. I very much hope that we will also be able to move forward by raising children's and family allowances. The Reform Party faced it with its nails and teeth. Last week, four political parties handed over a very good bill, which also indexes family benefits, which means that, together with the increase in prices, children's benefits will start to rise. I very much hope that the Reform Party will not stop this because, with only one-off support, we are not currently solving the concerns of Estonian families. From today's vote, too. The government has tied it to a mischievous vote of confidence and therefore the EKRE is not taking part in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U625	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U626	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U627	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U628	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! Today, the government has come up with a very interesting idea: linking the Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act to a vote of confidence. When the minister was on the board, there was talk of very selfless pensions, family allowances and so on. But obviously, the Minister was in trouble by failing to provide satisfactory answers to people who have lost their capacity to work and receive disability support. One simple fact emerged from this answer: it is a group of people who are to be classified separately. They do not have to receive subsidies; their problems are not important. Why do I have the guts to say this? Yes, I do. Andrus Murik of the city of Mõisaküla wrote to me a very specific person who could not be concocted. And I quote: 'I ask you to raise in the Riigikogu the issue of the debate on the support of people with disabilities and who have lost their capacity to work. I lost my ability to work myself in 2013 and then became severely disabled. For years, I worked outdoors in Pärnu harbour, night and day, as the exchange was. I ruined my joints there, and I finally burned up when the responsibility was great. That's it. But many, most likely, are still unable to cope with the state's support. This year, the missing capacity allowance was raised to 12 euros and disability support has not been raised at all. In addition, people are unjustly taken away from trees. " By the way, an analogous reference is also here in the amendment to the law, where the Social Insurance Board checks whether or not the ability to work corresponds to such a result. Andrus continues: "It feels like there's some kind of hustler at the Social Insurance Institute by assigning this disability. My income and the income of many other cripples is 489.9 euros for the lack of working capacity and 41.17 euros for the disability allowance. " That's 531 euros. And Andrus continues: "Only on drugs do I have about 60-70 euros a month. " He thus has EUR 461 in his hands. Andrus continues: "The firewood costs the soul price, EUR 750 in 10 rooms in Mulgimaa, and EUR 550 in two tons of wood briquettes, or a total of EUR 1300. That's how much it takes me a year to heat a house, and that's the minimum. When it's cold winter, there's a lot more heating. " Here he has addressed the Riigikogu with a request for help. When we have heard our rulers here saying that there is going to be a very bad autumn, energy prices are rising, fuel is rising, food prices are rising, the shortage of raw materials is increasing all things, I do not know how these people can cope with their lives. We are already among the five poorest countries, with a 19% inflation rate. When I asked the Minister how to manage, a series of support measures were read out. But the question of how to deal with EUR 15,5 per day was not answered by the Minister. I wish I'd heard it. Once upon a time, a film such as "The Horses Disappeared after all," Sydney Pollack's work ran off the TV, and the lead was played there by Jane Fonda, who participated in a busy and exhausting dance marathon, several days long, to win a huge prize money. Of course they didn't do well, this couple didn't make it to the end, and his partner committed suicide. They wanted to show and whip the vices of capitalism. But the vices of capitalism are right here in our own small Estonian country, where the people who have lost our own health, who have contributed to the development of our economy, are not concerned. Question: why do we have to worry so much only about the people arriving for us? Of course you have to worry. But why don't we care about our people? But because, Minister, they are no longer useful. And that's where I can make the comparison: the hunted horses will be shot. When will the government take up and start doing something for the people who have contributed to society's economy and therefore lost their health? The benefits that we all enjoy here together are made by these people. The dignity of the end of a man's life doesn't have a price. Talking about money on this subject is just humiliating. It degrades people and the dignity of this government. Only those who don't care about people's lives will shoot them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U629	Mr. Kruusimäe, is there a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U630	Yes, thank you, Vice President! Yes, I have a procedural question about the fact that, if we are now going to vote on this vote of confidence, there are basically two options: whether amendments approved by the Committee on Social Affairs will be taken into account, or whether we will only vote on a draft from the government and no amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U631	Thank you. We will vote in a vote of confidence on a draft from the government, in which amendments approved by the government have been introduced. Helmen Hunter, please! Sorry, Helmen! Mr. Kruusimägi is still in his debriefing class. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U632	Yeah, good vice president! I see that here the Committee on Social Affairs has now said: 'to take full account. "Is it the Government of the Republic...? It says: "The Social Commission, the Government of the Republic, count fully. " Which is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U633	This means that if you take up a table of amendments and see 'Government of the Republic, count fully', it has been introduced by the Government of the Republic. Consequently, if the final text goes to the vote or what we vote on is the one that says... We will not vote on the amendments, once again: they have already been introduced. We will vote on the text that you have on your tables. If you want to know which changes have been approved by the Government, they are indicated in the table of the amendments where they have been approved by the Government of the Republic. Is that clear? (Tarmo from Kruusimäe Hall: "Yes! ') Copy that. Then it is, please, Helmen Hunter's turn. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U634	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows, Social Protection Minister and Transmission Monitors! There are a number of important things in the draft concerning the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws, i.e. 605, which must certainly be supported and from which it is delighted that they will finally get to the point that they will also be done. Let's start with some. Increase in income support. That's very reasonable. From today's 150 euros to the first adult family member will rise to 200 euros, support for each child from today's 180 euros to 240. Very important support for families to cope better. But it really does concern those who are under the limits of coping. Our debate on the repayment of loans for housing purchases is undoubtedly supported by the Social Democrats to prevent people from losing their homes, but there are a number of questions that I also asked the Minister today. Local authorities are concerned. The loans are different, the borrowing rates are different. Income support is a public grant paid out by local authorities. Indeed, local authorities in their autonomy and through councils fix limits. This is understandable when we talk about rents, because we know specifically whether in Viljandi or Tallinn or anywhere else in Estonia, what the rental market is and what the rent price is in this area. When we talk about the price of firewood, it can also be imposed by the local government, seeing how the price of firewood, for example, has risen. Now, bank loans are very different in length, with a very different monthly payment, due to the length or property price that has been acquired. This bill states that it could be paid six months a year, and if it is paid the same payment, loan, interest and insurance, then it would be clear in the house. But the municipalities must reach the councils because the law will enter into force on 1 July. I understand that fast and difficult times require rapid solutions, but the municipalities are relatively alone, the May Councils are already taking place or have taken place, in June the council meetings usually take place before Midsummer Day. In short, the speed is very high in the back. Local authorities actually need help and a clear message. It may be said that we do not want to interfere with your judgment, but then I have a question about the criteria for paying public money. After the local government, perhaps they pay differently for having misunderstood. There is also the question of social justice here, the same one raised by a colleague of the EKRE who said that there are people who will never get a loan from a bank and will never be able to buy their real estate. They are forced to rent their own dwelling. The Minister replied to this, and I pointed it out that those who have tried, indeed who have received a bank loan, will have the opportunity to receive a payment through income support within six months, but people receiving a minimum wage will not be able to obtain a loan. Well, I'm saying there's a lot of people in Estonia who get the minimum wage. Believe me, they too are eager, they work daily, and they do their work with a great conscience and opportunities. Many people who receive a minimum wage cannot go to another job because they have either a care obligation or something else. And the minimum wage, when we say that let's not make 50 euros ridiculous, is not ridiculed by anyone, this one-time allowance, every help counts, every money counts. However, I would argue that the increase in the first and second child's family allowance, initiated by the Social Democrats on 22 March, would have helped families with children more. Let's move on to the bill. It is very good that the benefit to alleviate the price increase takes into account not only those who are old-age, but also those who are unable to work, beneficiaries of disability benefit and 100% of those who are unable to work. These people are 38000 according to the draft explanatory memorandum and the cost of this law is 2 million. It is certainly a good thing that we do not talk as is the case with the support of a single old-age pensioner, that only old-age pensioners are taken into account. You see, this increase from EUR 115 to EUR 200 is large and it is reasonable that it should be larger, but today all those who live alone with a disability benefit with no incapacity for work and 100% of those who have permanent incapacity for work are excluded from this allowance, the same 38000 people who actually live alone. I hope that, as the Minister promised, such a living pensioner's allowance will be re-examined, which currently includes only old-age pensioners, not those already mentioned as having no capacity for work and 100% of those who have no incapacity for work. So there's enough to talk about and worry about. I also hope that when the Minister comes to the Riigikogu, on the basis of this analysis, he will also present a draft law to the Riigikogu for discussion, a bit of consideration will also be given to the issue of disability benefits for older people, which have actually been unchanged for decades. I am not talking now about those under retirement age, but there are quite a few among older people. Apparently, the previous speaker could have talked about them. So basically, there are a number of very, very important things in the bill that will become a law today that deserve to be supported. However, although the €50 subsidy helps people, the increase in the base pension and the income tax exemption for the average pension would have helped more. It would have helped to increase child benefits, which would not have been EUR 50 once, but would have ensured a better monthly livelihood. Once again: the income support should have risen by now - we also proposed this in the budgetary procedure at the beginning of this year, because it would certainly have made it easier for all those in trouble because of the rise in energy prices, whether they are elderly, working-age, families with children or people living alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U635	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U636	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear co-workers, all of us who are going to shape these decisions, although we cannot really shape this decision, because the debate as such is not happening here! Yes, it is true that, if it is stipulated somewhere, the beneficiary of international protection is entitled to an amount of EUR 900.1200 for the conclusion of the contract. But a good master reads his money, I realize we're always tight in our wallets, and there's no way. Like in "The Nutman" movie, how come it wasn't before, but now it is, but now it doesn't? This EUR 900-1200 is quite a strong amount. Now I realized that this will work in connection with the vote of confidence. My good friend Maksim, whom I welcome from here, whom I have mentioned a few times by surname, he is a Ukrainian who lived here in Estonia for a few years, also learned the Estonian language, had a good category, was a lecturer or gave lectures at Tallinn University of Technology, TalTech or whatever it is there, with such a ugly name. He went to see his father in Mariupoli. We had the last connection with him through the Internet on February 23rd, he greeted us for the coming celebrations, and then it was over. A month ago, we contacted Maxim, and Maxim had reached the filtration camp in Donetsk. Then we thought that Maxim was actually out of line when his phone was taken away and they saw him picking up three or four years in front of the Russian embassy. But I don't know how it happened in a wonderful way that he got out of there alive. And right now, Maxim has reached Lithuania. Maxim has also published a Ukrainian-Estonian dictionary with another person. Now I say, Maxim, get out of Lithuania quickly! We have cash sprayed everywhere like porridge, because the sworn translator takes up to 20 euros for one page and the standard contracts are 10 pages. So 200 is what he gets, a sworn translation is done. By the way, Maxim, I also have one sworn translator recommended immediately. The rest, the limp that's there, 700-1000 euros, that's good. If we actually sign up for these sums, that's the price we're gonna get these contracts. We might have a chance to negotiate these things, that they are not limits that should remain. I think that Maxim, too, needs to make this lease because the person who has escaped from the filtering camp in Donetsk needs international protection. So somehow again, again, as they say, the wettest fish always catches from the water. It also includes a gift for some other translation companies. When I asked if the list of translation companies was locked now or if it was open, I didn't get an answer. For some reason, I have a suspicious feeling that this list is already locked in the bud, because those who gave these things up, referring to one other thing, that the beneficiaries of international protection have been earmarked for EUR 900.1200, could, of course, have been treated differently at national level, looking at our market, assessing our chances of non-compliance with the market. Because we have a lot of communities on social or collective media where Ukrainians are helped to find housing and also help to enter into contracts they do not know about these amounts. So the fools are the ones who rushed to help. The cleverer [they did], as they say, is not the wise one to rush. Let's wait for the money to come. It is a pity, however, that we cannot discuss the amendments proposed by the Isamaa Group here. There's nothing to do, it doesn't give me confidence. I therefore call for no support for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U637	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U638	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are undoubtedly some very important things in this draft that can be resolved, and the rise in income support is also a significant change. But I very much agree with my colleague Helmen that, traditionally, we not only leave the municipalities secondary, but we forget somewhere far away from the door. On the other hand, I'm sure they'll make it, that's not the problem. The people of our local authorities are good, come together when they have to, even exceptionally, and solve this issue. But I do have a request that if they do this out of their own wisdom, that we do not punish them again and not thank them again, why did you do this, where your understanding is? At the same time, it is quite clear that if we have a crisis situation that we have now, every message must be as precise as it gets. We should strive to ensure that everyone, both our people and our municipalities, gets a very precise message about how to behave, what are these rules. Because there's enough trouble and misunderstanding without it. However, I will now, in the rest of my speech, touch on the EUR 50 that will be extraordinarily allocated, to which I also drew attention in my questions. I am absolutely convinced that this will help a lot of low-paid people, for whom every euro is literally at the price of gold. All the more so, I'm critical of our government, which has pushed the payment of this sum at the latest... To make no mistake, I quote: "Support will be paid by 10 December at the latest. " I'd say, " Hello! "December 10th? At today's inflation, which is almost 20%, another 10% of this EUR 50 has been bitten. If you wanted to help these people, you would have written 'By 1 August at the latest' or even better 'from 1 July will be paid out', because it will also be a month to prepare for it. Municipalities have a month to prepare. Then why can't our government make the moves in a month? When I thought about it, I couldn't help but see why. In fact, the government would have liked to make this gift on February 24, 2023. But, shit, a year came in and it couldn't be done. And it still had to be done in December. Because, by chance, there's an election in March. The need to help our people is exactly the case with the fifth-order issue in the case of municipalities. Because indeed, those who want to buy firewood, who want to prepare for the winter, must make these expenses in the summer or early autumn. They will not be able to push it to December. We can see that prices have increased by 20%. But we have to help people today. We can't tell those people who really need help, who have one euro at the price of gold, that, you know, we will help you in the future, but so long put your teeth up. This isn't serious. This isn't serious! And on that, I am extremely critical. And I'm also critical because the government rejected the decisions that the Fatherland made. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U639	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U640	Three minutes. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U641	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U642	Thank you. The Fatherland made two proposals that would have helped. One proposal was this decision, which could help people, pensioners, and which does not include additional bureaucracy, an extraordinary pension increase from 1 January 2023. Indeed, when we discussed this in this Chamber, we proposed that it should enter into force as from 1 January 2022. It would have been very reasonable and would have helped our people. Indeed, if there is a desire to help our people, if there is a desire, I say, to help our people, then it would have helped much more than this EUR 50 grant at the end of the year. But now we have proposed an option that, when the extra budget is being made, we will now bring it to July 1, because it is also at least half an egg compared to... Well, if the whole egg was dropped off the table, let's try half an egg. But it didn't work either. The second is, of course, that the exemption from income tax on old-age pensions could also have come into force from the beginning of this year. But if we wanted to help these people, then it could actually have started on 1 July. But really, here's now... Well, I wouldn't say that these people are somehow very rich, but for them, there could be any euro at the price of silver, if for some who can barely handle it, it is the euro at the price of gold. This step, too, would have been very important if, in essence, we wanted to help. But what to do is, it's today's reality. Here are some things that you must be happy about and be grateful for. On the other hand, this whole bill still makes it ridiculous to treat the 50 euro and pay it out at the end of the year. I am not going to quote here what the Prime Minister said when we discussed energy subsidies and proposed that people could be helped universally and why this idea did not fly. It just makes you think, the whole social attitude. I don't think there's anything else to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U643	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U644	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, If Mart Võrguship made a speech here and talked about all four of them, I'll start with all four of them. This is a tetralogy of the government coalition, and the first work of this tetralogy is currently being presented. In ancient Greece, there was one, as was also mentioned, a whole of an independent work. It usually consisted of three tragedies and a satire drama, reported at the Dionysus festival. Whether he's a tragedy now, or whether he's more like three comedies and then it's the lead. But that's it. I don't want to ridicule that 50 euros at all. Every euro is important and for a very large number of people. But that's how the first piece came out of the tetralogy. Yeah, 50 euros in the fall. Yeah, really, one family gets 650 euros, but this family has 13 kids. But half the families, 80,000 families get 50 euros. But consider where we are now. Inflation is the highest in the European Union here. And where we gallop by autumn, we don't know at all. We have been constantly discussing these things here in the Committee on Budget Control, and these are rather frightening scenarios, including those of the bank managers and their [believing] what is coming in the autumn. Yeah, Mart Võrguship said we could finish this LNG terminal in a couple of months. Well, it's good for someone to believe. But when the stormy sea starts to refuel, the captains have said that the crash is quite certain. But that's why I'm not gonna talk about anything else. If now there is a one-off €50 injection in the autumn and the total cost of this bill is 29 million, it comes from the state budget, about half the pensioners, half the children, it is, in any case, gratifying that there is enough already. But what's left of it in the fall? After all, there was a 20-euro pension base that had been adopted, but instead of looking at the elections and paying it to everyone for the summer somewhere, it was decided to postpone it to the time before the elections. Then the pensioners will remember the cookie well and you can say... Well, the 50-euro, autumn, yeah, I could use it, but in any case, very little of it gets. As far as I know, it was actually a half bigger cookie, 60 million from the state budget. But the cheap partners of the Reform Party, as I've heard, said they couldn't. And now that all the factions, apart from this slimy Reform Party, have signed up to support children on a much larger scale, Kaja Kallas, the ruler, threatened, as such a picky manor lady, that in that case the government is over. But this thing is coming. This thing's coming! And in this case, it is not a one-off EUR 50 grant that will be distributed in the dark in November. So, in fact, why I am saying this is and why I am not taking part in the vote on this draft and my colleagues are not, [it is not] that we are against this draft. No, it's not. Every euro is desperately needed and the problem is still very, very big. But there's been this, well, I'm not saying half, but with a ridiculous solution that offers help, but not one that really needs. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, pretty bell. How about a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U645	Yeah, sure. Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U646	Thank you. And now one of the main characters in all this tetralogy is a single mother in Ukraine or a woman in the best years who appears in all the Tetralogy works in one role or another. And now he shows up here in the role of knocking on the door of pensioners living alone or vice versa. The Minister here thought that I think that those pensioners who are interested in not losing the support of a living pensioner should report to the Minister. I don't think so. But it's a character in this tetralogy that has something to do with this work. So 38000 Ukrainian women should find their way to the pensioners living alone, and then those living alone would get one-off relief. But if you look at necessity, it is not the pensioners who live alone that are in trouble. I took out various groups from the website of Statistics Estonia, who are in a very serious situation and whose social poverty, not absolute poverty, is still impressive. Yes, [at least] of the 65-year-old pensioners living alone are nearly 75%. But the men who live alone, by the way, are also very many of them, and they would certainly be happy if some of these sloppy Ukrainian women would settle with him and receive some more support. Often, these dwellings are larger than that of a man who lives alone, whether he is a man or a woman. And of women who live alone and are not yet in retirement, nearly half of this group lives in relative poverty. So it's a big problem, really. Fortunately, there is no war in Estonia, although it is attempted to sell to us that we live in wartime and that it is the Tetralogy of wartime. This isn't wartime tetralogy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U647	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U648	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There can be no silence, because the representative of the Reform Party again, once again, showed that if the Reform Party opened its mouth, there would be a lie or arrogance, often together. In demanding and pointing out to our group, he categorically wanted us to explain to our voters why we are opposed to these additional budgets. In fact, we do not object, we proposed over 600 improvements so that these budgets would indeed meet the expectations of the Estonian people, including those of the voters of the Reform Party. Well, we know that, of course, not all proposals can be substantive in the case of obstruction, but we had a lot of substantive proposals, including in the social field. But if reform parties love to say that this is a national defence budget, I'm sorry, we have a speech as a group representative in Leo Kunna and he brings out exactly, on a cent, how little money actually exists in this budget for defence, including the money allocated to this so-called broad defence. Now demand that we explain something to our constituents? I would like to say about this: representatives of the coalition, particularly representatives of the Reform Party, you must explain to your voters why you are doing what is good for Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, which is good for Russian imperialism. Why do you flood Estonia with Russian-speaking people, about 200 of whom come every day with fresh Ukrainian passports from Russia to Estonia? Not from anywhere else, but from across the Estonian-Russian border, about 200 people come every day. I would remind you that our allies, the Czech Republic and the United States of America, but perhaps some others, whom I do not know, have announced that they will not accept Ukrainian citizens from Russia, because this is a security risk. Knowing a little bit of Russia, I say it's the right thing, that's the security risk. But Estonia accepts them. To come and lie to us here that all those organisations that have regularly started buses in order to bring here people who have left Ukraine are not related to the Estonian state, that the Estonian state has not financed these organisations and not just now, but over the years, that is wrong. It's just a lie! The state has contributed. What are you saying that Estonia is a country like Great Britain or the United States, where there are long-standing traditions to support all kinds of non-governmental organisations, with the money collected from the people of charity and so on? It's not like that! There is no such tradition in Estonia. In Estonia, all these organisations can live only because they receive money from the state budget on a regular basis. That's right. So to tell you that the state has nothing to do with this is wrong. There's no point in lying. By the way, you screamed here during our government, how a lying minister has no place in the government. Well, everybody step back because you've all been lying here since the Prime Minister. When was that? On Monday, when he announced that 85% of Estonians were Estonians. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Where did he get that number? 85%! We know that, in fact, under the pressure of immigration, the percentage of Estonians has fallen to about 63. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U649	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U650	And then I would also like to say that you must explain, honourable members of the government, to the Estonian voters, how Estonia can have the head of the defence forces who honk all over the world, that we are blocking the connection between St Petersburg and Kaliningrad to Russia. This is exactly what the Russian propaganda is saying: NATO poses a military and security threat to Russia. And then our own defense commander says we're shutting down their traffic. That's exactly it! I wonder if that point was given to him from the Kremlin. Anyway, I understand it's very interesting for ministers to talk to each other, but take the Prime Minister's notice and tell him tomorrow to open up such a Commander of the Defence Forces, all the more so since he's crossed with your Prime Minister as well. When the Prime Minister says that NATO's proposals to strengthen our security and increase our contingent here are not sufficient, the Commander of the Defence Forces of the General Staff of the Defence Forces says that Russia is so weak today that Russia does not pose any threat to us. Then why do we need reinforcements? Why do we need additional weapons? Why do we need a hedgehog? No problem! Russia has broken Ukrainian pillars; it will not attack us; there is no need to be afraid. Finland and Sweden are now also in NATO, no problem. Such a foolish person, who thinks he's a leading politician, in a position where politics is out of the question at all, must leave the day. Take it to the government, please. Now for the end. Unfortunately, I cannot get past the vile exploitation of Estonian poverty in order to accommodate so-called war refugees. I can't get past it. My parents were very sick before their moment came before God. They were with me, and they did not need any Ukrainian war refugees to receive any support from the Estonian state because they had a son and that son took care of them. Now you want to put people in our poverty regardless of whether they take in someone they don't know, with whom they have absolutely nothing in common, with whom they may not even speak the same language. Do you realize how vile this is, both to these war refugees and to our poor pensioners? Shame! Shame, Cynics of the Reform Party! Shame on you for humiliating people!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U651	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Urmas Reinsalu. [[Urmas Reinsalu is asking for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U652	Honorable representative of the Government of the Republic! A respectable representative of the people! The government has tied the package together with confidence in the vote on the entire supplementary budget menu. I cannot support this government on the budget presented in this form, and I will do so for the following reasons. Firstly, I recognise this self-evident need for an additional budget in the current crisis situation. Nor did the Isamaa Group propose any amendment to cover exceptional expenditure meeting the practical needs of the budget as an independent political objective. However, the biggest weakness of this budget is what this budget does not contain. The additional budget does not provide us with a clear and unambiguous, convincing and legally binding government guideline on increasing our own defence capabilities. It is said in the rhetoric that this budget is a security budget. After all, we can literally say that the resources that are directed towards energy security, cyber security and other elements of wide-ranging security serve a total security objective. But so-called tough security, or indeed military capacity, and this budget to finance it, I recall, there are 15 million euros in national defence, consolidated, if we leave out buildings built for the allies, then another 7.2 million euros will be left, EUR 1.2 million will be deducted, EUR 6 million will be left for the acquisition of anti-tank capability. This is, in fact, the level of error that is taken into account in the planning of protection, also in the planning of defence investments. This is all the more embarrassing because if we consider the budget, including inflation affecting the base budget of 2022, especially in the field of defence and defence industry, the international inflation that is taking place in the field of defence and defence industry, in reality there will be a reduction in the ability to acquire new capabilities of Estonian defence, as the purchasing power of the money is significantly lower than the assumption that the state allocated the money to the base budget of 2022. Secondly, I completely regret that this additional budget does not address inflation in any form. The government's view is that inflation is short-term, that inflation cannot be suppressed by tax law or other measures, and that is therefore the wrong way for most European countries which do so and whose inflation figures are lower. We say that inflation is a natural phenomenon, and that must be accepted. I can't agree with that at all. 18.8% inflation during the reference period 21. April, it is extraordinary, and it actually puts our people at great risk in the context of coping, and it also puts our companies at great risk of competitiveness, precisely as regards the organisation of foreign trade. It is therefore extremely irresponsible that the measures, in particular in the vision of the Fatherland Group, to reduce and deter inflation, directed specifically at energy carriers, are left absolutely unaddressed. Thirdly, of course, there is a very serious circle of problems that this budget does not contain, namely supporting people's livelihoods. It is regrettable that the government did not consider it reasonable to actually do as the nominal pension increase of EUR 20 was agreed at the time of the previous coalition to put it into effect in real time in 2022. This is considered necessary by 2023. The peak of künism is the cost of living, the energy crisis in the current nominal monthly distribution of four euros to children and older people, and what it will do then is 16 cents, or 4.16 euros per month. And pay out that money only in November? I don't know what kind of calendar justification this November is the October Revolution, do I? In order to pay out this financial contribution precisely in November, when the purchasing power of the money has actually lost its value. It is on the left, it is a measure that humiliates society and does not actually provide a solution for a cent. What do I find particularly eloquent? The government rejected the proposal to allocate funds for the transition to education in Estonian in this additional budget. Secondly, it was extremely ugly when the Foundation Slava Ukraine, whose leader Johanna Lehme was present in this very chair and to whom the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refused to provide funds for first aid packages to Ukrainian front fighters in connection with military assistance rather than humanitarian aid, asked the Finance Committee to provide 10000 first aid packages with the financial cover that the Slava Ukrainian Foundation could make and immediately deliver to the front, then the coalition ambassadors of the Monetary Commission had the cynicism to vote down this proposal. It's a short-sighted, cowardly and immoral moral perspective. That, too, should be to frame the moral untargeted nature that this additional budget itself bears. It does not respond to the Estonian economy, it does not respond to Estonia's security and it does not meet the interests of the Estonian people's livelihood. He has rejected the proposals of the government coalition to finance the transition to education in Estonian. And the last, most regrettable crown in this context, is the vote-out on the proposal of the Slava Ukrainian Foundation, which this fund, completely cross-politically, asked all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I do not know what the mental attitude or justification was that from an additional budget of EUR 802 million to that million, the coalition ambassadors did not get their hands on it. See, we made it, we stuck together! We saved up for Ukrainian soldiers. So live with it, sit in this warm room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U653	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U654	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start with this bill very simply, from the beginning. We are talking about some EUR 50 once, in October. I would say that we fought very hard here in December-January for an extraordinary pension increase of 20 euros and an average pension free of income tax. Unfortunately, the coalition did not agree with this and pushed it to 1 January next year. We know the value of money falls every day. Let's see what April inflation was like. Let's see what money makes in our second pension pillar, which here was so spiritually supported by a coalition party and did not want to agree in any way that it would be made voluntary. The smart ones were the ones who took the money out of there on January 1. Smarter than those who took September 1st, they lost. But all those who have money there today, they've lost 10 plus two or three percent of the money here or there. This draft says that the whole package of four drafts, which is linked to a vote of confidence, is a draft of wartime, a draft of crisis. Actually, there's so much air in this bill that it's embarrassing. It should also be awkward for those who are going to support these drafts here, because if we look at the state of LNG gas today, if more than 200 million are in the budget, or a quarter of the budget is in it, then today, the private operator is building beaches, and today, Elering reports that she is not making this connection with the Balticconnector by autumn. And as of today, there is no one to buy 170 million dollars of gas from anyone, because it cannot be connected to the Balticconnector pipeline, it can be diverted to the Latvian caves so that it can be gas in winter. There has not yet been a single country in the world or a person who would buy gas at that price. And then, in Question Time, the Prime Minister tells us that, uh, we'll be able to do something with the money that isn't being used. Private investors are building beaches today, and at the same time there are 30 million more money in the budget to join Finns, also to make ship purchases and everything else to compete with taxpayers' money from private companies and then to cooperate on the same market. The funniest thing is that we, Estonia, are putting money in one sharp, but at the same time we signed an agreement that we will share this money equally with the four countries. Perhaps in this comparison of how much gas a country uses, Finland has 30 sharps, Estonia 5 sharps and Lithuania or Latvia in the meantime. But if we come back to the same social issue again, it is sad that we are not discussing the proposals for improvement. We missed this opportunity to really give our families a chance today. Fifty euros is a lot of money. But if any of you have looked at your April bills and compared them with March's bills for heating or electricity, then the April bills, which, when the sun was shining in the sky and was warmer, are more physical. Even though you've taken less of everything. But network charges and prices have increased in the meantime. Good luck bringing the Estonian people into poverty and bringing the middle class into poverty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U655	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. According to § 137 (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, no amendments are put to the vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U656	Thank you. I would've taken 10 minutes of break if I could get it before the vote, but I think it's too late. Or?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U657	If you want to take a break, it has been practice that before we start the voting procedure, it will be taken. But if that's what you want right now, you'll be able to take it right now. A microphone for Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U658	Yes, thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for once again explaining this procedure to me. And if that is indeed possible, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to take a break of 10 minutes before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U659	Thank you. Break 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U660	Good fellows! The break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are at the final vote on the draft 605. I would remind all of us that this is a draft relating to the question of trust, which requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. I will put draft 605 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U661	With the result of 60 votes against 9, no abstentions, the draft Act amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and other laws has been adopted by the Government of the Republic as 605 laws. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U662	Let's move on to item nine. This is the second reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. The floor is presented in the speech chair of the Riigikogu at the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U663	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft before you remains one: to support our agricultural sector, to support Estonian farmers, also professional fishermen, and to do so at a time when, due to Russia's attack on Ukraine, these sectors are in serious difficulties. The proposal to reduce excise duty must be dealt with with with the additional support for agriculture included in the supplementary budget, i.e. it is essentially a single package. When I was here before you at first reading of this draft, I asked Parliament, if possible, to discuss quickly the amendment submitted to you, because farmers really do expect this amendment. Unfortunately, more than 200 amendments were tabled. It has to be said that there were mostly proposals for which no substantive justification had been provided, and there were also those which, in substance, were incomprehensible. For example, one group has proposed that between 1 May this year and 1 May 2023 the rate of excise duty on diesel should be EUR 372 per 1000 litres and that the excise duty on special diesel could be EUR 100 per 1000 litres. I must point out that in the current law we have exactly these rates of excise duty. It is therefore incomprehensible what exactly the author of the proposal meant, which was not mentioned in the explanation either. Now, one group, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the delegates of this group tabled a total of 220 amendments. For the most part, the explanation of the amendments was one sentence which did not contain any substantive justification. For example, it was requested that the excise warehousekeeper submit to the Tax and Customs Board a report on the movement of excise goods and the stocks at the latest on the 10th day of the calendar month following the tax period. It's the 20th day in the law. In conclusion, it can be said that it is quite obvious that amendments of this kind aim to prevent the adoption of a draft law relating to an additional budget, which automatically also means an additional budget. With the Government Union, we really consider such an obstruction in the current security situation to be a way to make Estonia more vulnerable, and in no way can we support it. Speaking specifically about the agricultural sector and the crisis that affects this sector, the European Commission has also come up with proposals to deal with this crisis, of which the implementation of the crisis reserve and the creation of a temporary state aid framework are certainly more important. The Estonian agricultural sector is supported by the European Union, the European Commission [more specifically] with 2.5 million euros. Through the additional budget, the Estonian state will contribute another 9 million euros. In conclusion: we cannot delay the adoption of this draft and of the additional budget. In order to use the European Union's co-financing, we have an obligation to pay out the entire amount by the end of September. In essence, this means that the later Parliament adopts the supplementary budget, the more at risk these same payments are for farmers. Once again, the aim of this draft. We want to support the agricultural sector, which is responsible for ensuring food security, by means of a temporary reduction in excise duty, and we want to implement, by the end of the year, the rate of excise duty, which is a minimum level in the European Union, according to the proposal. This is substantial aid to farmers. So, good Parliament, I ask you to support the draft that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U664	Thank you. You have questions too. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U665	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance, I am pleased to see that you are in such an athletic form! But my question concerns the supplementary budget as a whole. Why has the Government of the Republic not provided for comprehensive measures in the supplementary draft budget, in particular fiscal policies, which would help to alleviate inflationary pressures due to the exponential rise in energy prices? Please also give your broader approach to inflation risks and how you predict inflation by the end of the year, by energy carriers, and how much this affects the cost of living in Estonia as a whole. And are you sticking to what the Ministry of Finance has put forward, that really all the consolidated nominal inflation will be 12 decimal [something] percent by the end of the year, I think it was 12.6% or 12.7%? What is the overall treatment of inflation by the government, the highest inflation rate in Europe: April [2022] versus April 2021 18.8%?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U666	Thank you, good questioner! Neither is your sporty form, which I am glad to see. Speaking of forecasts, this situation has not changed compared to when we went through and discussed the first reading before Parliament with you. Hasn't changed in the key that uncertainty is insanely much. Today, we can rely on the spring economic forecast. That really contained the information you referred to. The picture will certainly be considerably clearer by August when a new economic forecast comes. At this time, however, there is probably already a more solid or precise picture of the exact impact that sanctions can have, as well as of all the problems in the supply chains and the overall increase in uncertainty. That's the way it is. Today, for example, Estonia had its final review of the IMF delegation, who over the last two weeks carried out a very thorough analysis of our economic situation, as well as a financial picture. They, too, start with the fact that uncertainty and uncertainty are just a great deal at the moment, which means that it is not possible to make monthly forecasts until exactly the end of the year. Inflation, of course, is one of the most serious problems this year. The best way to influence inflation or discourage inflation is certainly to keep government and Parliament's spending under control. I'm afraid so. It's definitely not very popular. And, as was said at the first reading of the supplementary budget, when we put together the additional budget, we really considered and discussed the possibilities of changing excise duties so that they would have a tangible impact on both inflation and prices. The overall assessment is, however, that this effect would remain very limited, that the final price would not be reached at all or would reach it for a very short period of time, temporarily and then not only back to earlier levels, but often, in the example of other countries that have applied this reduction, even higher than it was before. However, in a period or at a time when the state has very high additional costs, particularly those related to security, the country will still have a significant amount of revenue that will certainly make this situation even more difficult than we have today. As we have said before, we are really monitoring how and if decisions on excise policy and excise duty are taken in our neighbouring countries, particularly Latvia and Lithuania, in order to avoid a situation where our companies would be placed in a worse position in a competitive situation. That's definitely what we're monitoring this year. As you certainly know, excise changes do not actually require an additional budget. In this sense, it is possible for us to react quickly, if necessary, throughout the year. But indeed, the problem is, above all, that the impact on price is in principle either non-existent or very momentary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U667	A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U668	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm out of line now. I actually asked the Minister for Finance what the government's approach to anti-inflation is and why anti-inflation measures, particularly fiscal, are not included in the supplementary budget. However, the Minister for Finance replied to me that the reduction in taxes according to the expertise known to him would raise the price of fuel, would come out [so], and because the situation was so uncertain, and even though inflation was so high, if I understood correctly, these measures would not be able to be dealt with in the supplementary budget. But my question to the Minister for Finance was, Mr President, what is the government's approach to inflation control and what will be the inflation rate of energy carriers by the end of the year. Specific questions. Perhaps it would be fair to give the Minister for Finance a new answer, to rewind this time as a so-called stop frame, so that he can respond precisely to this government approach and forecast? We know that this is indeterminate, but it is not really possible to make decisions without an estimate; the Minister of Finance himself correctly referred to the spring forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U669	Thank you. I say yes, it was your question, the Minister of Finance answered as he replied. I mean, we are currently in a position to ask up to two oral questions to the rapporteur on this draft of the Riigikogu. I can't rewind it with a stop frame. I tried, I can't do it right now, but you can ask me one more question, if that's what you want. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U670	Thank you for introducing the procedure, Mr President. But perhaps I could take this opportunity not to break the dynamics of the Rules of Procedure, to give the Minister for Finance the opportunity to answer the next question, which is Mrs Merry Aart's question, in more detail? I would be delighted if he would also touch on the problems I have raised. Would it be appropriate, Mr President, to propose this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U671	Thank you. That's what you did, the Secretary of Finance heard it, and he's got the chance. I can't tell you how he's gonna respond, I don't see it coming. But let's try it, see how it works. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U672	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please explain why the reduction of special diesel excise duty is only intended for seven months.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U673	Thank you for that question. This was also the subject of first reading. And as I said in the introduction, it is a comprehensive package in this sense that it is also linked to the additional support for agriculture included in the supplementary budget, which in turn relates to the additional support provided by the European Commission to Estonia and not only to Estonia, but also to other countries affected by the crisis. And it's in two sections. As regards the payment of part of the grants, by the end of September this payment must be made, and the second part of it is now valid until the end of this year. Of course, the current situation means that we need to monitor very closely the situation that will take place and will take place in the second half of the year, and also in the next few months. I guess if there's a need, we'll have to come back to it in the fall. But right now, these two things are connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U674	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U675	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You here criticised the obstruction that it is harmful, how to say, in the progress of our whole process. I first dealt with it when your party did the obstruction when we were in the government, and then the party leaders called it the victory of democracy. Have you changed your mind now? Many of the proposals are actually valuable, but they are now undisputed. And the other thing is that you have claimed that the tax reduction will increase the price. Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U676	Thank you. This last one, however, is a bit of a twist of words. I did not say that the tax reduction would increase the price, but that the impact of the reduction in excise duty on the so-called postal price, i.e. the actual price of fuel, could be very small, if at all, and very temporary. One example worth looking at and which you yourself have highlighted in the past is Poland, where it was decided to bring excise duties even below the permitted minimum level at the beginning of the year. As I prepared for today's debate, I looked at the price dynamics that followed there. Indeed, in February, a small drink was down; about 12 cents was the effect by which the price of fuel came down. But already a few weeks later, the price had risen higher than it was before, and at this point too, the price is higher than it was before they made their excise change. When comparing these changes in both the monthly comparison and the annual comparison, it has to be said that in Poland the annual comparison is 89% higher for liquid fuel prices than they were in March a year ago. Of course, prices are higher in other countries, and in Estonia too, prices for liquid fuels are higher in March this year than they were a year ago, but this percentage of increase is not so high. Or if we compare, for example, the price increase in March this year for liquid fuels, the prices of liquid fuels in Poland rose by 39% in March this year. That was after they made their excise reduction. There was also an increase in Estonia, but it remained at about 25%. Since you have brought this Poland out yourself, it is worth exploring. This is one example of how this is a change that really takes a very large, tens to tens of millions of potential revenues from the state budget down, but the real impact on the price may not really follow. And since you started asking about the additional budget and structure of the previous government union, I must say that, having been a Member of the Parliament at the time, we supported the additional budget that needed to be adopted during the crisis. I'm afraid you were a little inaccurate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U677	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U678	Thank you. I certainly support the reduction of excise duty. Sadly, it is [only] for seven months. When you give the example of Poland, I quickly took the example of April: the price of diesel in Estonia is still higher than in Poland. But the question is entirely different. In the debate on this issue, it was certainly said in the government that most farmers actually buy a whole lot of fuel for the summer, especially now that we know that the price is rising. Now a lot of farmers, as well as fuel dealers, have called: what happens now, because there is no retroactive reduction of excise duty for those who have bought it. And do I get it right that the draft is now on 1 May, but we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided that it was on 1 June: if the vote goes on, then it will still apply from 1 June?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U679	Thank you for your question. It is correct that this applies from 1 June because, administratively, it would not be possible to do it retroactively. But for a moment, going to the beginning of your question, when you brought a comparison with Estonia, that was not my argument. I spoke specifically about the price in force in that country and the comparison of that price. And it really is that when we talk about an annual comparison, regardless of the same excise change, [liquid fuel prices] have increased by 89%, and if we compare February versus March, this increase has been 39%. I'm going to be more specific about that, just in case. But yes, June 1 is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U680	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Finance! Well, you did a stab here at the EKRE in connection with the obstruction. I just need to remind you that it was only at the beginning of last year that your home party proposed Estonia's accession to Russia and that we put NATO withdrawal and the European Union and so on to the referendum. So the point is that it is a political measure and a lever for the opposition to try to get in on its sensible ideas. Here too, the EKRE had completely [existing] proposals for reducing excise duties on energy carriers and more than just one. We will also be able to ask substantive questions about several other drafts. But I'm asking you this. How do you feel, as a former member of the Riigikogu, please answer yes or no: either 0.6 to 2 seconds to discuss one amendment in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, at all on the Commission, is a reasonable time? The fact that one amendment can be presented in the Commission within between 0.6 and 2 seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U682	Thank you. Well, if you're very effective, then don't know. But, of course, as a member of the government, it is not appropriate for me to comment in any way or to review the working arrangements of the parliamentary committee. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U683	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U684	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would go a little further with the question put by Aivar Koka. Aivar Kokk pointed out very accurately that farmers usually buy fuel in advance for a whole year or for this period of vegetation until autumn work. At the moment, they would have been able to pay these costs; they would not be able to refund the excise duty if, at least, the tax exemption had been a year, from 1 July to 1 July. Then they would have had a chance next spring. At present, however, this exemption is applicable from 1 July to 31 December. Why are you teasing farmers? You're not really helping them. It's kind of formal, a little bit like substitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U685	Thank you. I guess you weren't in the hall when I answered that question once. Farmers themselves, as well as the professional fishermen affected by this change, have assessed this as a very important change. There are certainly those who do not agree that you call this an unnecessary or somewhat cumbersome proposal. And as far as this deadline, i.e. the end of the year, is concerned, as I have explained, this is a proposal which is essentially a package, plus an additional direct payment for agriculture included in the supplementary budget as a package, plus additional support from the European Commission to Estonia. The payment deadline for this first half shall be the end of September of this year and the second half shall relate to the end of this year. So since they are considered to be a comprehensive package, this draft proposal proposes to introduce this amendment until the end of this year. As I said before, in reply to Mrs Merry Aart's question, it is of course necessary to monitor how developments are going to take place and, if necessary, to come back to this issue in the autumn. But for now, that's why he's until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U686	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U687	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In response to Riho Breivel, you tried to explain the logic of how the tax reduction did not actually reduce the price of fuel, and you gave various examples. Now I am trying again to understand this phenomenal phenomenon through the logic that when 2018 fuel costed 1.3 to 1.4 euros in Estonia, the so-called postal price, taxes were lowered during the EKRE government and fuel price fell below the euro. How was that possible and now it isn't? What does this have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U688	Thank you. One could ask you exactly what the price was in January 2020 and whether he remained the way he fell for a moment. That was the content of this answer and the debate we have here. When we talk about excise changes, when we talk about price changes that are potentially sustainable, when dealing with such price changes, non-collection of excise duties is simply an ineffective measure. And when we talk about price increases again, combating the overall price increase through excise duties is simply not effective. Unfortunately, the same examples that I gave you confirm this, they may not come at a price. What can and must be done, and to which we are likely to reach in the debate on the additional budget, is indeed about mitigating the effects of these price increases on vulnerable target groups. This must be done, and indeed this is possible through an additional budget. So this was the content of the debate that we had here with a previous questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U689	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U690	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, there is the possibility, take or leave of special fuel to help the fisheries sector and agriculture. Why don't you open it up a little bit? Were there other measures on the table than only the issue of excise duty on specially labelled fuel? In fact, when we talk about fishing in professional fisheries, we know that a large amount of fuel will be burned in the herring fishery that is currently going on, and by midsummer it will be largely over. I know that, for example, the fisheries sector has asked for more time as an important measure, because the water was very cold in Pärnu Bay during ink fishing this year. They didn't meet them there, and they said there was nothing, and the catch goes on the agreed date, and that's it. They didn't even give us more weeks. Were there [other] measures? And why this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U691	Thank you. This in itself is important, what you describe. I can now promise that I will take it from here, and with the Minister for Rural Affairs we will certainly be able to discuss this issue further. There were other measures. As has been said, the Minister for Rural Affairs presented a comprehensive package, which also concerned the same payment of additional direct payments, for which the additional budget provides for money. I know that today there was a [consultation] meeting on agriculture and rural development, where the Minister for Rural Affairs presented his proposal. Within two weeks, if I am not mistaken now, if the additional budget gives such a mandate, there is a plan to confirm and divide this distribution between the various parts of the sector. It has been discussed with the sector. But now, in particular, with regard to the concerns of professional fishermen, for example, fishing for herring, I simply cannot respond at the moment. But I'll take this problem with me and give you feedback later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U692	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U693	Thank you. I don't get it. You keep saying that lowering the excise duty will increase the price. Then why are we doing excise duty cuts on this special-marked fuel? Maybe tomorrow the price will rise. But once again, I support that this fall is being made. My question is this: was there a debate in the government about Latvia giving up bio-addition? The proportion of the fuel added to the fuel price is slightly higher, even half as much as the share of the fuel excise. Was it even on the table in the debate to stop bio-addition in Estonia as well as Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U694	Thank you. This, of course, has not gone beyond the debate in Latvia. We are watching exactly how this debate goes on. As far as I know, even the draft for coordination has not yet been submitted in Latvia. This has indeed been a comment in the news via the media, but it has not yet reached the decision-making stage. This is a topic that has also been considered and discussed by our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In the case of Estonia, it is a little more complicated because we also have it in relation to biogas, biogas subsidies and other things in this area. So I can now say that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will certainly monitor and analyse this in the Estonian context as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U695	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U696	Thank you. You said that you would not interfere in the work of Parliament, that you do not want to take a stand, but that you have a government-scale prime minister here who has resented the bill on child support initiated by the Riigikogu. But I want to come back to the fact that, in fact, the EKRE proposed to reduce excise duty on all carriers. You have highlighted here one thing that concerns agriculture, which is, of course, good and necessary for agriculture. Our proposal was also to give a clear signal in other areas that the country wants to reduce excise duties and help people. And now I'm going to try again on the second test. Please try to answer me simply as Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, not as Minister of Finance. Could it be a reasonable time for a single amendment to be held for a period of between 0.6 and 2 seconds...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U697	Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U698	... for substantive discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U699	Your time! Now I've been trying to tell you in two seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U700	Thank you. Well, I'm still here on the board before you as Minister of Finance. If you have any personal questions for me, we can definitely talk about this after this format is finished. As has been said, if it is a very effective Member, then you should know, perhaps it is enough. However, I believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the committees [at all] have their reasons for applying one or the other method of discussion. I'm sure you'll get these things sorted out nicely at the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U701	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U702	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In your response to Reinsalu, you have identified war sanctions and supply chains as the cause of this terrible inflation. At the end, you also mentioned a bit of excise duty, but it doesn't matter at all. The real reason, the most important, the high energy prices, you did not mention. However, it is precisely what the government can most influence. Why do you want to deal with only partial price increases for people, but not for business, and not for all this cause, for high energy prices and for lowering them? Why is the government not interested in the resulting inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U703	Thank you. This is a very correct remark and observation that the lion's share of the inflation we see in Estonia is directly linked to energy prices and is imported inflation to us. What has an impact on prices is that there will be more supply, that we have more sources that compete with each other on the market, and that we must, in any case, make an effort to do so. Among other things, through investments in energy sources, including through investments in, for example, renewable energy, which would help bring more supply to the market. The biggest problem is if we do not talk about this part of the Russian gas, which is a completely separate issue, where one of the most important and major parts of the additional budget is provided for, so that we can finally get rid of Russian gas and have the conditions created in Estonia for an alternative source of supply, if we leave it aside and talk about energy production, then investment in the market for additional capacities is something that needs to be done. In addition to investments in energy savings, which are also included in the supplementary budget, but which are also included in the possibilities of using European money already decided on earlier. These are things that need to be invested in and which, in the long term, will certainly help significantly more than temporary subsidisation in price formation, because we will not be able to subsidise ourselves out of high prices. This can still be influenced by the fact that there is more to be offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U704	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U705	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Indeed, the Fatherland also proposed a reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel, but specialty diesel was the only one found by the government as being mentioned and included. However, you really are saying that lowering excise duties is not helping anything, it is not helping to reduce inflation, on the other hand, you have come along as part of this package. So the obvious effect is, obviously, there are some other considerations why you only agree with special diesel. But my question now comes: what are the mechanisms that will help to control this extremely high inflation, or is it like years and natural phenomena that there is nothing to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U706	Thank you. This draft, which concerns special diesel excise duty and which is now before you, is intended, as I said at the outset, to directly support farmers in the agricultural sector. Why is he presented in this form? Because in this case, if there are really very few intermissions, the probability that he will reach the farmer is still great. That's why we're in front of you with this bill. And in the case of inflation, once again, the most direct way in which the state can influence is through control of its costs and levels of costs, rather than by boosting inflation with additional costs. That's definitely one side. We have already talked more about the share of energy prices in terms of supply, the rise in additional supply, so that there would be investments to create alternative sources of energy savings that would help, let us say, reduce costs. In the case of inflation, of course, it is also the case that interest rate increases help and additional supply is helping. The interest rise is certainly not under government control and should not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U707	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U708	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. When last year's supplementary budget was adopted, the same thing, the excise duty on special diesel, was lowered over a year, until April, but now it ends on New Year's Eve. What's the logic of this? Farmers continue to sow and reap, [fishermen] fishing regardless of the year, and very few, if any, have hydrogen engines. What's the logic of not doing over the winter this time? Or does it have some sort of internal [logic] to save or [something like this]? Explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U709	Thank you. This is now the third time the same question. Your colleague, Mrs Merry Aart, asked the same question first, and the colleagues of the Fatherland asked the same question too. Then again: because the package of payments for agriculture and farmers is a whole, both by means of a special labelling of diesel excise duty reduction and by means of additional support for farmers included in the supplementary budget. The additional contribution shall consist of two parts. One part comes from an additional budget, the other part comes from the European Commission. Its payment date is now the end of September and the second part is valid until the end of this year. As they are interlinked, considered as a comprehensive package, this is why the current draft is valid for the end of this year. But, as I said to your colleagues, this is what we will, in any case, monitor over the course of this year, what developments are ahead of us. If there is a need, we will come back to this issue in the autumn. But he has now been presented for these reasons with validity until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U710	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U711	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm gonna go back to the biopsies for a second. In replying to a colleague here, you said that the Ministry is following very closely what the Latvians are doing, and it is very nice to be monitored. The question is, why is this initiative so arranged that we are following very closely what the Latvians are doing? Why can't we take the initiative to get the Latvians to watch us, and at the same time we would also put pressure on price reductions? Why the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U712	Thank you. We're still watching each other. And not only are we watching, but we also have quite a close cooperation. We are really discussing these issues together, which concern tax issues as well as excise duties. The situation we are in today's security policy is the same for the whole region: the very exponentially increased needs force further investment in security in the broadest sense. It is not just about Estonia; it is exactly the same in Latvia and Lithuania. Lithuania, if I am not mistaken, has already adopted an additional budget, and their focus was particularly on strengthening security in the broadest sense. In these circumstances, all three Baltic States have the same situation and concern: we have an urgent need to make very important additional expenditure to strengthen security. We know this year is gonna be really tough. None of the three of us can predict exactly the state of our economy in the autumn. In the case of Estonia, we know, the last forecast says that we can be faced with a recession, a real recession this year, and in these circumstances we can somehow easily decide that we will not collect tens of millions of taxes, that simply cannot be done. That is why we are really discussing both security issues and taxes, for example, and we have discussed the three together. So it is not only that we are monitoring Latvia-Lithuania, but it is all mutual.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U713	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U714	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You argued that lowering excise duties would not affect inflation or the cost of living. At the same time, you replied to my colleague, Heiki Hepner, that you reduced the excise duty on special-purpose diesel to support agriculture, i.e. to support farmers. Explain what this support is about if it does not affect anything. Is it just a technical adjustment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U715	Thank you. No, I was talking about the final price. Indeed, as I said to one of the previous questioners in reply, there are very few interlinks in the case of this particular special-marked diesel, which would be sometimes there before this effect reaches a farmer directly, and therefore there is reason to believe that this effect will indeed reach the farmer. When we talk, I don't know, about the groceries coming to the store, there's a lot of these interrelations, and therefore the reduction in excise duty may not have any impact on the final price.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U716	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U717	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Here is a very good example of how the committee and the ministry can work together pleasantly. We have discussed excise duty several times in Parliament's committee, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and we have achieved quite a good result. We were able to bring excise duty even to the European Union's minimum rate. I think this is what shows that it is possible to make distinctions. I would also like to add that the extension of excise duty also extends to forestry and fisheries, not only to agriculture. And I would also like to say that this period of excise duty certainly has nothing to do with the support of EUR 2.5 million granted by the European Union, we could have been downgraded for three years, so there is no connection. It certainly has to be dealt with at the end of the year, because, looking at the fuel prices that have risen again by over two euros, I think it will remain for such a long period, but the debate will take place in the autumn. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U718	Thank you. I know that this cooperation, which really is with the Commission, has also been very appreciated by the Minister for Rural Affairs. And the fact that you have worked together to find a solution, I think, has been very important, so for that the sector will certainly be very grateful. However, I say that there is a link between the European Commission's package and this draft because it was presented in one package. The proposal came as a complete package and included both a specific excise change and an additional direct payment and assistance from the European Commission, which, as has also been said to several previous questioners, does not mean that if at one point there is a need to revise the deadline and if we know more about the circumstances ahead of us in the autumn, what the forecasts are and what the situation has become, it is possible that it needs to be looked at again. I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U719	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U720	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I listened very closely to these answers before, and right now I realized that it is actually bureaucratic, this kind of paper-on-paper thing, the package. What, then, is more important, form or content? We have a package, a nine-million-dollar package, and that's why we're gonna end this on New Year's Eve, but the problem and the problem stays. And it's not a one-time thing like you give 50 euros in November to children and old people. Farmers always have the same problem. There was no such package in the previous supplementary budget; it went peacefully to April. Why the stupid play that form is more important than content that is permanent and permanent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U721	Thank you. In this draft, content is the most important and the content is intended to support our agricultural sector, both farmers and, as has been pointed out, fisheries and forestry. This is an important support at a time when the crisis and the nature of the crisis are quite different from the crisis that we had last spring or even last year. This is a sector that currently needs support from the security perspective and, in particular, from the security outlook. For this substantive reason, this proposal has been put before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U722	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U723	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll take it from where Rene Chef ended up. I will now ask you, because it is linked to a vote of confidence. If you come here as a minister to introduce a new draft, or come to introduce the amendment to the law, will you be able to do so within 0.6 to 2 seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U724	Thank you, good questioner! Well, it's getting really complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U725	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U726	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your speech that lowering excise duties does not affect inflation or prices. To Mr Hepner's question, why then would you lower the excise duty on special diesel if it did not affect anything, you replied that it was to support farmers. Kert Kingo asked if there was anything that would affect it, what would it be like to support it? You said you would support and do it to lower the final price. Do you finally admit that excise duties have an impact on the final price or on the price at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U727	Thank you, good questioner! Quite the contrary, I said that there might be no impact on the final price, and I said that there are not so many differences between farmers, so the impact will come directly to the farmer. But I wasn't talking about the final price, but I specifically said, precisely that I pointed out that when we are talking about, for example, food products, the likelihood that the reduction in excise duty would reach [the end price] or somehow affect the final price is very low. This impact on the final price, too, is not the main objective of this draft, but the main objective of this draft, as I have repeatedly said, is directly linked to support for farmers and also for the forest sector, as well as for professional fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U728	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U729	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have a question for you about the excise duty and VAT on the sale of e-cigarettes. We know that between 1 April of last year and the end of this year we have an exemption from excise duty. I asked the Ministry of Social Affairs about last year and their [e-cigarettes] and it turned out that one-off e-cigarettes had been sold in 202 million units and 12 million a year earlier. That means 190 million units is like more. Considering that they cost six euros in cheaper places with VAT, the country should, let's say, have more money. Is this now such an effective measure that we can move forward with [this], as the VAT receipts are now more than before the excise duty receipts? Can we go on with the excise duty exemption to fill the country's wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U730	Thank you. However, this specific proposal does not go overboard with the draft reduction of special labelling diesel for the agricultural sector. I am currently not carrying the statistics you are referring to and it is very difficult to carry tax statistics across all groups of goods. It would make sense if we should continue this debate, perhaps in a debate on a topic that focuses on this particular subject, then I can also bring along the necessary data and then it will be possible to discuss it with you on the basis of the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U731	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U732	Well, I just want to mark it, don't we often have tobacco excise and all these things under discussion here? I also made a written question, but the [reply] that came from the Ministry of Finance in its time was Heidi Vessel's blur, which did not mention any tobacco damage or other things, which also concerned, let us say, the ban on tastes. Right. That's why I'm sorry I asked. But I want to bring the matter in because, seeing how well the exemption has worked, that it has brought a huge amount of VAT to the state, I wanted to tell you that next time you have a debate, use the opportunity and rely on the indicators of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I can send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U733	Thank you. I believe that we will probably find a way to address this issue here, even in Question Time or, as it were, off-the-board. This opportunity certainly arises and exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U734	Minister, thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U735	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U736	I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Merry Aart, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U737	Please have three minutes [additional time] just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U738	Yeah, please, eight minutes. It's a good thing this isn't a two-second negotiation, eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U739	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The draft law will reduce the excise duty on special-purpose diesel from 1 June to 31 December this year by EUR 21 per 1000 litres of special-purpose diesel. A better sparrow in his hand than a dove on the roof, that's what they say. This decision is, in any case, worthy of recognition. But why was it not possible to establish this period for at least a calendar year, i.e. 12 months, instead of seven months? I got quite a few explanations here today, but they didn't really convince me, I have to say. I very much hope that they will come back to this, just as the Minister promised here today. This year's spring work, which is relatively fuel-intensive, is over. For next year's spring work, only farmers with tanks can collect fuel, which does not help others. Many, especially the smaller ones, do not have such containers. It would be nice if innovation reached the farmer, so that the tractor or the combine would be driven either by the wind or by the sun. Maybe that's what's gonna happen in the future. Unfortunately, not yet. Let's talk a lot about biodiesel, that's very nice, but before biodiesel, you have to grow rape on the field. Let us not forget that, in addition to work on the field, ploughing, sowing, tillage, harvesting, diesel fuel is also used significantly in dryers. Due to the increase in electricity prices and the risk of blackouts, farmers have thought, and it would have been more correct to say, [have] been forced to think about, including gardeners, generators and even combi stations. Diesel is an important production input and excessive taxation hampers economic activity by distorting economic decisions. However, the reduction in economic efficiency also reduces tax revenue to the state budget in respect of other taxes. Our farmer gets the lowest, not to say the lowest subsidies in the European Union. We have not been able to negotiate effectively with Brussels. I am a long way from blaming someone specifically, but this must be our primary task, making every effort to ensure that the food producer remains in equal competition with other European food producers. The share of diesel in farmers' costs is around 30%. This is certainly not comparable to companies operating international transport, but it is also one third of the cost of production, and this increases all other costs. If the prices of inputs are now to be multiplied by four or five, the sales price of production can be multiplied by two, at most by 2.5. This will certainly not have a positive impact on the competitiveness of businesses. In addition to the dramatic increase in the price of production inputs, nature also creates other obstacles to the farmer's activity. Sometimes it feels like how these food producers can withstand both economic and psychological pressures. And the answer is, you don't have to do everything. Lately, I've met several serious players who, sighing, say, you know, just can't make it, I'm done, I can feed my family, but there's not enough energy and resources. On Monday, there was a debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs on the damage to geese. Again, I don't mean to say that nature and geese don't have to be kept, but where is the balance, when a study is carried out to attract geese to eat on other parcels, so that they don't go to destroy the winter fruit for six years? Last year, research was carried out on how to investigate, this year, pilot studies are being carried out, and for the next four years, it will be examined how to explain to geese that they would not destroy food from humans and domestic animals in the field. Four years! Every year, this project costs EUR 70000. We will multiply by EUR 70000 in four years. At the same time, however, a farmer can receive maximum compensation of EUR 3200 through a large bureaucracy, up to 3200. If we take one grain producer with a field of 500 to 600 hectares, it will be worth EUR 10,000 to deter geese during the spring period. The end result depends on how he manages to deter them. The actual damage suffered by a farmer may amount to EUR 200000 per year. Around 1.5 million losses have been detected for geese registered by farmers. Not all farmers write down their losses because this process is extremely bureaucratic. Last year there were 180 producers who recorded their losses. That means we divide 1.5 million by 180. We get that one farmer suffers an average of EUR 8500, but the aid is up to a maximum of 3200. Farmers say that there is simply no point in going through such a bureaucratic gauntlet to get up to EUR 3200, and that is why very many do not write it down. In addition, this aid constitutes de minimis aid, which will be an obstacle for farmers to apply for investment aid in the future. I call on everyone to think about and discuss how to act in a balanced way, to preserve nature, but also to enable the producer to produce food, to ensure that our food producer has a level playing field with producers from other countries. One way to achieve this is to reduce taxes to a reasonable level. In drawing up the next budget, we need to look at the future that our decisions will bring in a year's time, five years from now, perhaps ten years from now, not only to live today and to make Excel-based decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U740	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U741	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, I'm talking a little bit about history. Years ago your government was in power and also raised fuel, alcohol and all [other] excises. I am from southern Estonia, Valgamaa, and it was terrible to watch all the people of Estonia go to Latvia to refuel, buy alcohol, tobacco and everything was transported there. The big one wasn't taken from Estonia anymore. Today, in Latvia, fuel is the same price for us, alcohol and tobacco are a little cheaper on the Latvian side, but right now only the local people go there to buy the stuff for themselves, and the fuel is not fueled at all. This has to be looked at very much when you change or make excise duties more expensive in your country, because then all this profit will go to Latvia. The same is true for alcohol and tobacco[excise]. If we want to raise it, I believe that half of Estonia will be buying these things again in Latvia. So at this point, it makes sense that fuel is at one price with [Latvia], and there is no difference between tobacco and alcohol [price]. Hold this price and see what is in Latvia, and do not lift it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U742	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U743	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the screen! It is very nice that at least one sector is the government's mind at all, lowering excise duties on specialty diesel for farmers. But at the same time, we have enormously high fuel prices with excise duty, as well as electricity prices and all other goods. Listening here to the Minister's answers, it was just comic listening, of course. The minister replied here on the rates of excise duty why these other excise duties cannot be reduced. The minister said it didn't affect anything. And then proudly announced: but we support the farmers. Any logical person can understand: but what is this support if it does not affect anything? Someone was lying here, and I'm guessing it was our minister who was just lying here. The point of the support is to create better and more favourable conditions, which the Minister here also acknowledged that they support farmers. However, the other excise duties cannot therefore be reduced; I am talking here, above all, about energy excise duty, electricity excise duty and fuel excise duty, because it does not affect prices. That's a lie. And it has already become the handwriting of this government, not just to think about your people for God's sake. Your people are just to wear them out, wear them out with taxes. Let's give it a little bit, but let's do it with a scoop, as soon as we can. The fact that the reduction of excise duties, the reduction of taxes does not change anything is purely wrong, because when the EKRE was in the government, we reduced excise duties on fuel, electricity excise duties, alcohol duty and all excise duties. And the result was visible. The result was seen! As long as all taxes went to Latvia, these taxes began to be collected in Estonia. Border trade practically disappeared. If the current government policy continues, we will return to the point that all taxes will go back to Latvia. Border trade can only get more momentum. Your people are poor. Interestingly, that's what this is all about with these taxes all the time in the direction of all the other people, just not their own people. At the current high price increases, at the price rally, which are directly affected both by the price of electricity and the price of fuel, these price increases are precisely the result of them. People's ability to buy has been drastically reduced, people can't pay for home heat, they can't pay for electricity. This is not a normal situation. And then the minister very important and proudly announces how they support it. But no tax reduction will do anything. And exactly the same is true of children's benefits. The budget is spending money everywhere else, but when it comes to raising children's benefits, the Prime Minister starts to purge, there will be ultimatums. They start to grump and find excuses why they can't. It was under discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, and there I only heard from the Minister how child support cannot be increased and why cannot be raised. There's no explanation for how it would be possible. But it's essential. Kids are our future. The government must, above all, take care of its country and its people. The government must ensure that the economy develops in the country, that people can cope and that people have the best possible chance of living. This government is just talking. According to this government, better Estonia is the place where people freeze, sit in the dark and starve. This is the vision of this government. Estonia is back. The vision of this government that we now have a better Estonia. And this government is going to wind up an additional $800 million in this budget everywhere else. The only one that doesn't have enough is our own people, to support our own country, so that our own people can be good here. It's a disgrace. This is really embarrassing! And this bill is exactly one example of why this government is hostile to our country and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U744	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U745	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U746	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U747	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, at times, listening to all this talk gives the impression that there are people living in Estonia who can't handle themselves and who have to be helped every step of the way. In fact, I think most people who live and carry Estonia want to cope on their own. All forms of assistance and request for help are generally even a little self-demeaning, because the story of Estonia is not easy, it is difficult enough, and it is a matter of honour. Of course, if the aid is granted, this aid will not be rejected, but often this aid must indeed come in such a way that it is not subject to a big applause or is not subjected to trophy stories; it must come in relatively unnoticed. Indeed, a one-off allowance of EUR 50 or a specially marked diesel excise to a low degree producer, fisherman or farmer can be said to be a great achievement, but it is actually a drop in the sea. Perhaps because of what we should be doing, perhaps a strategic view, this one-time support does not honor us, because the longer perspective must help to build Estonia and build confidence even when times of crisis are difficult. On my question to the Minister, I specifically touched on fisheries issues, professional fishing. Here it is good to point out this principle, which also the Fatherland has always been based on, that a line must be given, not a fish. This is all the more surprising in today's situation, where the prices of cold stores in the fisheries sector, too, make new records and write fish prices in different sizes. A situation in which the market has changed very significantly when we look at Russia and Ukraine in this situation. And when the fishermen call high state representatives, officials to the county, see, we have such circumstances that prices have made dizzy jumps, ice, or nature has been extraordinary in the sense that icebergs have not been in the Gulf of Pärnu for as long as this spring, and people come out to give us two more weeks, give us five more days, because the water has been so cold that we can't catch fish, just because the fish hasn't exactly been caught at the time, they come together, they look down and they say that we see no reason to give you extra time. The result is that these professional fishermen catch half the amount they caught last year. Half! And then we come into this hall and we talk triumphantly about how we're going to help the sector. Once again, I think it is fair, in this situation, to give these entrepreneurs, these good people, a line, not a fish. And, well, this is a serious point of thinking why we in the country have gone so far that, even in a difficult situation, we in Parliament have to do everything in an accelerated fashion, because we have a special situation, we have a time of war, we have to deliver [fast], we even solve things through the question of trust. But look, if we're talking at official level to get a week's more fishing time, they're saying there's no reason to apologize. After all, this is actually what a businessman, a citizen, lays down his respect for all of us, for the country in which he delivers. In fact, it also creates the same privilege to observe the law. When I spoke to a fisherman recently, I asked about the same excise duty, he said that it doesn't matter what you do, we use blue fuel anyway. That's the reaction. It's like we're creating some big assumption here, but those decisions in people's minds have already been made anyway. So it seems to me that it is a bit the same with this agricultural sector too. When you talk to large farmers, they say that, of course, it will help a little if you get fuel at a lower rate of excise duty. But basically it is also said that it is such a small component of the entire production volume that it is not a key issue to discuss with a large choir. I guess these problems are always wider. I think that these issues should be dealt with much more strategically and able to answer the question of what will happen in the autumn. One-off grants as a provision are fine political statements, but they do not run the country and they do not prevent the problem. So this image in this context should be much broader. And when it is said in the context of the same children's benefits that it is therefore a very bad draft that no sources of cover have been identified, we must discuss it. The actions that we have done together in this Parliament must be discussed, whether in opposition or in the coalition. If the cost of "free" public transport or of transport paid for by someone is EUR 1 million per week, then the place of thinking is where it is at stake. Maybe the money still exists somewhere in the system, and together we should finally face the truth. If our families are in a very difficult situation, perhaps driving a bus is a slightly more secondary issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U748	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U749	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U750	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U751	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! And above all, a good Centre Party! It's a beautiful day, the sun is shining out. The summer will come, the flowers will bloom, and the birds will sing. Who goes to the beach, who goes to make a hobby. A lot of people go abroad. Life is a flower. Yeah, really, there's a war going on somewhere, but we're cool. Without wanting to scare anyone, it is actually perfectly possible to draw a parallel with the year 1941 when, on 21 July, before Germany invaded the Soviet Union, it was wonderfully sunny and warm. Even then, people made their own plans. Why am I saying all this? The thing is, this Sunday, May 22nd starts at 75. World Health Assembly, ending on May 25th. This event is managed by the Director-General of the WHO, Tedros Ghebreyesus, who, by the way, has received suspicion of genocide. By the way, our own publication, Postimees, [of which] the journalist Berit Nuka, has also published data on suspicion of genocide. It is noteworthy that this article has now been removed from the web from all over the world. It was 2019. And what's going on at the Assembly? The Assembly aims to give the WHO superb powers in the area of pandemics. This means that if they take some kind of decision, there will be global restrictions in every country in the world that agrees with this agreement. And what is important is that these restrictions take precedence over the laws of this country. Question: will Estonia participate there? Estonia itself is not participating. Estonia is represented at this assembly by the European Commission. And this European Commission has been approved or, in fact, authorised by the European Union Affairs Committee with a vote of 8: 7, which is why the WHO is a fully-fledged representative of Estonia. I am absolutely sure that the European Commission will sign there for Estonia. But what does that mean? The result is this: if the WHO finds that there is a pandemic in the world, an emergency situation will be announced in every country. In fact, the restrictions that apply to either put people in self-insulation, somewhere in the camps, or any other of the other ones are left to the WHO's discretion. Heal with what? Exactly the same: there are already agreements with vaccine manufacturers on which vaccine we are going to treat. But it is not possible to treat Finns and Africans with the same medicine because the difference is already in nutrition and also in geography. There are more vegetarians in Africa, we have other foods, and cold and warm temperatures are crucial. You say this is all bullshit I'm saying. But look at China for a second. There are high-rise buildings welded under the pandemic sign so people can't get out. [People have] been sitting there for over a month. The result? They're practically jumping out the windows. I've seen a video of similar cases. People can't stand it all. But this is just the beginning of this thing. Today, the Estonian Express also kicked off in its article, where he wrote that the world is facing the Great Reset. By the way, I've been saying that four months or five months ago. Then they said I was lame. Today it turns out I've gotten my normal human title back. And what does it say? The article says that soon we will have no real estate or cars, because right now, there will be a significant change in the lives of all of us. Real estate prices are insane, and instead of having things, we are starting to rent and order more and more. Services replacing products, there is no need to own a house or an apartment to use a dwelling. While we do not use the living room, a group may have a meeting there. You can use public transport or rent a machine to move around. That's our future. These things are connected. For all this horror to come out of it, it would help if we could overthrow the Reform Party. There are perfect opportunities for that today. This draft relates to a vote of confidence. If there is no trust, the Reform Party will be out of power and we will be able to take our powers back from the European Commission. I know this decision, the Honourable Centre Party, is very difficult. And all the processes I've described right now will certainly take some time. But we do, and you have both children and grandchildren. They want a normal life, too. And I expect you to have so much thinking and responsibility to at least save your children and grandchildren and remove this government led by Kaja Kallas, who leads the Estonian state to destruction, from power. You now have the key to help Estonia get back on its feet and to have the laws in force again, democracy would have been saved and people would have been saved. This lockdown we had here from 2020 to spring this year was just a big lockdown rehearsal. Remember that! It's gonna be a lot worse, look at these Shanghai videos! Good Centre Party! I expect your support for this bill to fall and we can get back to normal again. It's all in your hands. I hope that you will come with us, because there are still a number of opportunities ahead for a vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U752	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U753	I'd like some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U754	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U755	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister! Colleagues! And everyone who's watching us through the screen! I'm gonna start my speech by referring to you first the TV3 news broadcast poll tonight. The question was whether the country should rapidly lower excise duties on fuel. 95% of respondents said yes. Today is actually a big day. An important day for Estonia as a whole, because today this government, the government led by the Reform Party and Kaja Kallas, shows its true and true face. It's reckless, it's cynical, it's lying, and it's arrogantly and numbly breaking the law in its actions [government]. It is the government that will roll up drafts for us every week, not for the sake of caring for its people, but rather on the basis of short-term circumstances and the interests and well-being of immigrants. All of this we have tried repeatedly and repeatedly here to show the public, through Question Time, which, by the way, is now viewed by an unprecedented number of Estonian people, and through various enquiries. We have obstructed a number of draft laws, and it must be acknowledged that this is also the almost only effective instrument used by the opposition that can be resisted by the coalition road roller rolling stock. We have also achieved certain victories and compromises through this, and we have been able to prevent a number of ideological initiatives and legislative culls using the objecture. Unfortunately, we can see that, at the request of the European Commission, this government is constantly trying to introduce the same sections into the draft laws, either by implementing legislation on partnership law or by criminalising hate speech. Last spring, the attempt to sign up for hate speech paragraphs in the Media Services Bill and the persistent pressure exerted by officials on us was unprecedented. The officials practically dictated to us what the end result would have to be, which would be written in the law, and cut it to the very end for us. Even when we in the Committee on Culture had achieved this rare cross-party compromise on the final text, they always said that the Ministry would not support it, because the European Commission will not approve it anyway. Really, who's the legislator here? The parliament of the Republic of Estonia with representatives elected by its people, the Ministry with its officials, the European Commission or the Government of the Republic, who looks and bends towards Europe, so how can it? That question has come up, by the way, many times. In a situation in which we as parliamentarians are proposing amendments, while very sensible in the interests of the Estonian state and the people, the answer is only the Ministry of the numbness of the state does not support it. It's like some kind of mantra that gets multiplied all the time. It's like the Ministry is the most important institution. If only ministerial officials are needed in Parliament as the rubber stamp of the Government of the Republic or the European Commission, which parliamentary state can we talk about at all. The fact that we are not discussing the amendments on excise duties made by opposition parties in this Chamber today is not discussing any of them, but instead we only know whether the government trusts itself or not. That, too, is kind of a sign. MEPs have tabled a number of completely substantive amendments that would improve the lives of all of us. Helping the people of Estonia, helping Estonian families to cope better in the coming crises and to cope with everyday life. Of course, it is particularly cynical that EKRE's proposals to normalise the energy market through excise cuts have all been rejected, in particular as a result of this process. We have heard from the Prime Minister in this Chamber, among other things, the argument that energy should be expensive, because then it will be consumed less and then the climate will not warm, and the high prices that Estonian people pay for domestic heat and light and fuel will eventually save the planet. This childish argument may honor him in some circles, but the government's goal in its actions should, however, be that everyone survives crises, not just his narrow and well-managed circuit, who applauds him in all things. But more about government lawmaking. The way they always put rotten eggs in the drafts, next to otherwise generally good and necessary proposals, is just stupid and mean. Take, for example, the way in which the otherwise very necessary Public Health Act was attempted to deal with two sections according to which gender change operations would have entered the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund, the taxpayer. It's like there's nothing else to do with the money from the Health Insurance Fund. Let the person of Estonia wait years for the hip operation, but look at the sex change, so the money needs to be paid out and now. Luckily, this nonsense didn't go through with the law. Let it be said here that, as a result of a few hundred amendments made by our party, or our ambassadors, these paragraphs were finally taken out of the draft law in growls, but they were still taken out. And, by the way, that is why we are making these amendments in order to obtain agreements on important matters and substantive points and thus to ensure that the laws that the Riigikogu adopts bear the fairest possible benefit for all of us and are also in line with the good practices of lawmaking. If the government is so stupid and impudent that it does not understand otherwise, then they must be forced to understand that what they are trying to do is unacceptable and not in Estonia's interest. Everything I have talked about shows how this government is sucking up and trying to hog Parliament and the Estonian people with vile moves. It is shameful to trust a government whose activities do not serve Estonia's interests. A government that bows down to strangers, a government that solves foreign concerns rather than the concerns of its people, and literally destroys Estonia and its future. We don't trust a government like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U756	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U757	I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U758	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U759	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Yeah, you could say a better quarter of an egg than nothing about this bill, and there's a point in that statement. But indeed, the Isamaa Party proposed that, in addition to lowering the special-purpose diesel rate, the excise duty on diesel and petrol should be reduced in order to help our people more broadly, but the government did not come along with this idea regrettably. Perhaps it would be worth looking a little wider on this subject. During the debate with the Minister and asking the Minister to say that, well, special-purpose diesel fuel remained in because we want to help farmers and fishermen with our aim, and only such targeted action supports them. On the other hand, we know that farmers and fishermen are using conventional diesel or petrol in their other movements, and reducing it would also help. Not to mention that our people who live in the countryside are often the only way to move is to use their own car. After all, fuel prices have jumped so high that it is not possible to make the necessary rides. No wonder that almost a hundred percent believe that it is exceptionally cynical not to try to solve the problem as a whole and also to lower excise duties on diesel and petrol. This is one possible measure. Perhaps insufficient to solve the whole problem, but certainly this would be a step in the right direction. Now another concern, which is clearly within the deadlines that have been written in it: from 1 June to 31 December. We have heard from the Minister that the year cannot be given because the financial year will pass in the meantime, and the European Union needs to think together about what steps to take here. Of course, together with the European Union, we need to think about how our subsidies come and how we can help our people in the best way possible. I think the problem here is that we are looking for reasons not to help, rather than thinking about how to help. And let's keep thinking. Indeed, on December 31, it will end. That leaves two months until the election. I would, of course, like to, and I would very much like to believe that we will be able to think together about what farmers will do next year. I'd like to believe it, but it's very unlikely. There will be elections in March, then it will take a month for the new government to meet. Then they come in April [total], and towards the end of April they get more or less straight. And then exactly one year from now, we'll be here, and we'll know that the sowings are done, and the farmers will wipe their mouths clean again, because they won't be able to compensate for excise duties retroactively. It shows such a very short-sighted and narrow view. The subject was very well opened up by a good groupmate, Andres Metsoja, who discussed this from the fishermen's view of how we approach such a narrow view of the subject and not give the bait, but try to make people dependent on these subsidies. Indeed, I could tell you more about forestry, ladies and gentlemen, the same thing that was said here about fishermen, but I would take this issue a little bit wider, because it is already jumping into our budget debate. But they're connected. When I asked what would help control this excise duty, which is insane today, has not been like this for 25 years, this excise duty is insane, the Minister said that there are additional sources of investment. Now let's think about how we are preparing for the next heating period when we know that Russian gas prices are going to increase. They will certainly be higher than in the previous heating period. What are these replacement components, the substitute energy sources that we can use? We don't have too many. We have oil shale, which we have not moved in relation to the [quota] price of CO2 to compensate for in any way. This money will be fully paid into the state budget and the government will cover its running costs. And the other one's wood. Have we heard that additional investments would have been increased to switch from gas to wood heating? True, not very long ago, but before Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine, it was attempted in Europe to create the impression that this bloody Russian gas, perhaps at the time, did not look so well, is much greener than our wood. It's kind of cynical, especially absurd. But we're not trying to help ourselves. And indeed, here we should also look at the northern neighbours. Have we heard that we are creating a national reserve of some kind of heating peat, just as the Finns are doing to mitigate the risks associated with Russian gas? We haven't heard anything about it. Do we find these things in the budget? Of course you don't. And are we finally somehow controlling and trying to influence this inflation, which is insane? Of course you're not. This is, in fact, such an approach to the entire supplementary budget of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U760	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U761	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good listeners, good viewers! It is always exciting to listen to the debate on excise duties and to see how lowering excise duties does not contribute to the reduction of fuel prices on the post and that this is a pointless measure. However, we can see now that, in fact, there is a proposal here to continue to lower special diesel excise duties, which the previous government has already done. Of course, it will eventually reach both the postal price and the consumer, mainly the agricultural and fisheries sectors. Farmers have always said that they do not need any concessions, if the price of food is such that production makes sense and makes sense, and is a level playing field with other farmers in the European Union. But from there, we'll get there, and then our resident will start paying for it. We can guess where we're going with our price increases. Supporting agriculture through cuts in excise duty and VAT differences is essential so that the price of our meal table is acceptable to us and reasonable for the people of Estonia as a whole. And what's funny is that when the EKRE proposes to lower excise duty or VAT, it doesn't work, it's not a working measure, but if the coalition does, it's a working measure. It is certainly reasonable and proper to lower this excise duty. In fact, this should be done in the current situation, looking both at Europe and the world, actually for an indefinite period and for all energy carriers until the situation changes. But it is still kind of exciting this debate. I tried to find out twice today from the Minister of Finance whether it was enough time to discuss one proposal in committee on the substance. That is exactly how we developed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the circa of 0.6 to 2 seconds was the time that would have been left for the authors of the amendments to defend one proposal. Clearly, this is not a reasonable time during which it is possible to dispel its proposals. As a result, there was no opportunity to discuss these proposals at all. In conclusion, it could be said that the fact that the Government of the Republic has linked this draft to a vote of confidence can in some ways be called surrender, because the substantive debate was not really wanted to do, to discuss it, and to take the easy way of resisting. And in conclusion, I must say that I am not voting on this draft, and I do not think that the EKRE Group as a whole will vote. We are not voting because we do not support the tax reduction, we are supporting it on two hands, and we are saying that it should be open-ended and for all energy carriers, but we cannot support it because we do not support the continuation of this government. I therefore call on the other MPs in this Chamber not to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U762	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U763	Respectable Madam Secretary of Finance! Members of Parliament! Mr President of the sitting! The representatives of the coalition do not participate in the proceeding of such a coalition's draft of trust! What is going on in Parliament, Mr President? Where are the coalition ambassadors? You're silent because you don't have an answer. But my answer is clear and unambiguous...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U764	Mr. Reinsalu, I'm not arguing with you. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U765	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U766	I interrupt you because you turned to me. I'll give you those 30 seconds ago. First of all, the members of the coalition are here. Secondly, for all members of the Riigikogu, as you yourself know very well, screens are installed in all our rooms so that they can participate in this procedure. Thirdly, I do not see more than four ambassadors from the Isamaa Group here with you. Do you want me to continue this list, or do you want to go on with your speech as you wished?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U767	Mr President, please also take this time off my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U768	Yeah, you got 30 seconds back.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U769	Mr President, we are not currently voting on a draft relating to the trust of the Fatherland Party. We vote on a bill relating to the trust of the government, your government coalition. Listening and looking at the motives put forward for this text, I must admit that I cannot vote in favour of this text. I will set out the reasons below in a broader context. Madam Secretary of Finance, being in good shape, athletic form, answered my questions in part, but he revealed the motives of this government coalition for not including any substantive measures to control inflation. The first argument was that lowering excise duties, lowering taxes in the Ministry of Finance, supposedly there are experts who have come out with information, leading to an increase in the price of these goods and products. This reverse-Antsla philosophy has been found. This reminds me that why, then, the previous coalition postponed a lower rate of excise duty than, as a result of this economic theory, would have been the higher price of petrol and diesel. Of course, everyone understands that this is a political memo, a political memo, Mrs Finance Minister, which has no connection with the real understanding of rational economics. The academic dispute about the impact of taxes on market economy pricing and the international pricing environment is one thing. The second thing is that the highest inflation rate in Europe is paid by Estonian consumers, Estonian entrepreneurs, whose international competitiveness, primarily aimed at exports, is decreasing by decreasing their real incomes. On the same issue, if taken back, this coalition has come up with a proposal to lower VAT on newspapers. If this reverse-Antsla tax theory is applied, then the coalition is therefore intended to increase the price of newspapers to consumers. Of course, this is not a relevant explanation, either. My appeal to give the government an idea of what measures are planned to combat inflation, which is undoubtedly in a restricted arsenal of government in a democratic country, was said by the Minister of Finance that inflation will help in the most effective way to curb government expenditure or savings in the public sector. These budgets are undoubtedly not covered by any austerity. The net position of this positive budget, if I correctly interpret the figures, is some EUR 650 million of expenditure not covered by a line of expenditure, i.e. expenditure covered by a loan. Last year, the government also adopted a negative budget of EUR 700 million and also gave up a revision of the budget launched by the previous government, which would actually have contributed to a systematic correction of government expenditure. In conclusion, the point made by the Minister for Finance was that, as the situation is very unstable, indeterminate, as has been said... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U770	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U771	And add it to 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U772	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U773	Thank you. And then, in fact, in this context, it has been pointed out that since the situation is indeterminate, it is not possible to apply the actual national measures, but must wait. What [should be expected]? Summer economic forecast. I would point out that experts, including experts from the Ministry of Finance, agree in this respect: the inflation rate at the plateau we have reached will not fall under any circumstances, but will be in an upward phase. Consequently, the measures should be implemented immediately, not with any time delay, in such a way that, through the means at the disposal of the State, the main factors of inflationary pressure can be controlled by this price. We have made a number of proposals already last autumn concerning the reduction of heating, electricity, VAT, the reduction of VAT on gas, which would, of course, have actually led to a reduction in the final price of these products for the consumer and would also have led to a reduction in inflation. At the time, the autumn accounting, I recall, was that energy carriers accounted for nearly a third of the inflation portfolio. We have put forward proposals concerning the introduction of excise duties on fuel to the minimum level in the European Union with a so-called sunset clause, a reduction in the fixed-term excise duty that a number of European countries have done. In this supplementary budget, there are proposals to help contain inflation, to help people cope better: firstly, more efficiently by consuming these specific products, secondly, to prevent them from building up additional inflationary pressures as a scalaring effect or as a cascade effect by amplifying multiple inflationary pressures. Regrettably, they have not been considered able to be supported. So it remains to be said that today's newspapers report that the government is preparing for the heating period for what risks may be in the energy market during the next heating period, and how to ensure both security of supply and handling problems. I am amazed that this problem has been going on for over six months, this shock situation, but [alles] the government is now starting to deal with it. This should have been done in such a way that the supplementary budget would have included a package of substantive measures in a situation where we are aware and have at our disposal information that, at least at the same level, the prices of energy carriers will be in the next heating period, in particular in the form of gas and electricity. It's too bad this is the case. This would have required a more decisive approach in the country's tax and economic policies. The fact that the situation is indeterminate means that [this is the case] in terms of increasing risks, including uncertain risks, but no analysis shows that inflation is short-term and, unfortunately, the result is a systemic failure of the government. When the budget was put together last autumn, and later on, it was based on the view that inflation was short-term. That is why this error of opinion has also reached this additional budget. This is not a reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U774	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U775	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good decision-makers! And, of course, messengers, our medium! I now, by heart, quote President Ilves, who once, coming back from America, said that I taught the Americans not to grow food, but to grow food immediately. Such simple peasant wisdom. We're talking about the whole, let's say, this agricultural thing that I don't know much about. And once again, I'm not going to teach farmers what to put on the ground or stick in it, because I'm not qualified. And obviously they don't teach me what to do as a city boy. But that's how much I can look at these numbers and get that picture wider. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, I asked the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, of Ukraine, who is the European grain barn and [he] has the large parts from which he has been offering this food, so that it is not reasonable to meet Estonian farmers and now to start growing grain. I would remind you that before Finland joined the European Union, the Finnish state gave each farm its own dryer, which in fact seemed extremely incomprehensible. However, their agricultural subsidies were higher than those foreseen by the European Union. Urmas Kruuse reported that we are already producing more grain than we can consume. I didn't think it was a competent answer. If we realise that we are going to have an energy crisis, that is, food is a source of energy for people, then we could look more broadly, [in case] when there is a cereal[crisis]. I don't think there's gonna be a carrot or a cabbage crisis here, but rather a cereal crisis. You could pay attention to this and, to some extent, support farmers to grow, grow. Yeah, I know there's gonna be those oil plants they are, pumpkin and rape. We may have grown rape successfully here in Estonia, but we could grow it, pumpkin, pigskin, it wants so much sunshine that we may not be very effective in this. But the thoughts I said at the time weren't the ones that kind of attracted me. Now they're looking at these things a little bit. So the small point is that ideas coming from the opposition are perhaps not all so bad, they are worth thinking about in meaningful terms. But now the question I put to our finance minister. Yes, many people ask if this e-cigarette theme has already exhausted itself. No, it hasn't, because it hasn't moved on, not at all. I asked the Ministry of Social Affairs for information and it turned out that when 12 million single e-cigarettes were sold last year, now that there is an exemption from excise duty, 202 million of them were sold, which means that their sales increased by 190 million. If we take into account that the average price is about EUR 6 for cheaper people, it is not difficult to calculate that we have received EUR 190 million more in value added tax. A year earlier, in 2020, we collected 2.6 million euros. Thus, the exemption of e-liquids from excise duty has brought the country an additional EUR 187.4 million. It was an important measure to stop the secret market. And from the Ministry of Finance, when I asked again whether the ban on tastes that came from the Ministry of Finance was justified, I received the answer exactly what I knew before, because at one of the conferences the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that we would otherwise have a better excise duty if those members of the Riigikogu had not taken the decision to suspend excise duty. In other words, if we have the importance of stopping the secret market and filling the state's purse, the members of the smoke-free Estonian support group have been on the right track. I think that the opposition ambassadors who have made proposals have also been on the right track. However, we see that this [draft] is linked to a matter of trust and we cannot deal with these proposals here today. Well, let's wait for the state budget, the extra budget. But it doesn't go the same way, it doesn't bring more trust. Therefore, this draft does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U776	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U777	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't talk about e-cigarettes. But I talk about my constant conversations with my farmers' friends, whom I sit with quite often, and we discuss things. We have been talking here today about military security and an additional budget. The second volume of this tetralogy is very short and the content is excellent: the special diesel excise is lowered as low as the European Union allows. Just a round of applause! But it's all some kind of pussy, some kind of quickie, like they say sometimes. But farmers don't need a quickie, though some may prefer. Stability is needed. The preferential fuel is, as one Minister for Agriculture has said, an essential cornerstone of the competitiveness of domestic food production. Mart Järvik is the man[who said so]. But now, if you look at the quickie that the current government has come up with, with this good proposal, it is not a cornerstone of any kind. What's the cornerstone that's set up for six months and then we'll see what happens next? There was a different problem last year. There was a corona apandemia, an extra budget was adopted in April, and there was also blue fuel in it. But there was no mention that it would end by New Year's Eve. Yeah, it worked until April 30th. So there's no continuity. On the one hand, it should be clear to everyone that farming is a continuous activity, and keeping animals where this blue fuel is needed. It's not like you're gonna do it for a second, and then you're gonna find that aha, the same thing again. It should be stable if we are a stable country and a smart country. And that is the main problem why I cannot support this bill, the content of which is good, and also my farmers' friends. Should have a longer look. But unfortunately, it's not here. The money minister here explained that the package is a question of a package! There's a bureaucratic word for it. Consequently, the form is more important than the content. Since we have 9.1 million in one package and so on, we cannot, the package is ahead. "Stupid talk back in your mouth!" it is said in the land. But if you look at the broader situation in agriculture, we have such a fancy program, what it was like, from the farm to the plate. And what's the actual situation right now? It was only when we discussed with the farmers what the real situation was. The price of food will increase by 5 to 30%, while pork will increase by 50%, the average price increase for beef by 20%, and pork by 17%. Production will fall at the same time by 10 to 20%, in some cases by 30%. We are talking about the European Union and, so to speak, the triumphant green turn of which we are with you in the wind. As a result, Europe will become a net importer of food. Remember that! This means that the grass is going to make food too expensive for many of us, domestic food anyway. But this means that food from third countries and other countries, the quality and content of which has been handled by the National Audit Office on a number of occasions, comes in its place, and this is not the healthiest thing, if politely said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U778	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U779	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U780	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U781	And what should be done in this light? A small step in the right direction, on the one hand, but very short-lived. It would take continuity and stability. Well, I am not going to talk about equal support for farmers in the common market, about which others have already spoken in this context, and what should be done. We have cows and puddles that give us 3 million tons of manure every year that can brew all kinds of stuff. Good stuff you can get buses, and not just buses, to drive, tractors, too. Only 12% of this is brewed with an apology for the speech mix for biogas. The potential is very high. It was only today that Paavo Nõgene spoke of his fleet that his ships or Tallink ships would need 16 such gas plants, and all the gas would go into operation, clean greens. But building one of these would cost $10 million. This current 9 million package, of course, is not all the price of the blue [fuel] excise duty in it. So, in fact, if the government wanted to look at and deal with food security, which is as important as military security, then much more should be done and, in a much longer perspective, also look at the so-called greening that it can actually take to. And the numbers I read are out of international institutes. I didn't make it up. And that's it: in the end, a step in the right direction, but a sedentary and short-term, which shows that the people in power are being raped. There's no certainty about tomorrow. As a result, I repeat, unfortunately, the second volume of tetralogy cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U782	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U783	Good manager! I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U784	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U785	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We will discuss a draft that will actually increase the price of special-purpose diesel five times in seven months' time. Excise, not price. Can anyone imagine that, on 1 January in this Chamber, we will learn that farmers will have five increases in excise duty on special diesel? Let's not talk about temporarily reducing something. Let's talk like we said during the last coalition when we cut the excise duty. It's getting up. Five times. I have the feeling that today the coalition has still not realised that there is an economic crisis. Not to mention there's a war crisis and there's a health crisis and everything. There should be one thing in this Chamber: you should take care of your people, take care of your businesses. The role of agriculture in the Estonian economy is very important. We can produce much more grain than we consume ourselves. More than three times as much wheat. At the same time, we know that pork about half our need, chicken less, beef a little more, but still not as much as we need. At the same time, we need to think about whether people have the ability to buy anything in the autumn. At least in my home in April, home expenses were higher than in March, although consumption was much lower. The second floor was long shut off from heating, but simply no longer compensated for network charges and the price had risen. I fear that most people in Estonia have run out of savings so much that when heating and electricity bills start coming back in autumn, October, we will not be able to pay them. I think that there should have been exactly the same debate on this draft, which was two years ago, in April 2020, when the COVID crisis arose. Then, in one night, very difficult fighting was achieved as a result of I admit that there was also a very big dispute in our party about lowering excise duties. Everyone is talking about how last year Europe was the best economic growth in Estonia. It is clear that the previous coalition's decisions [took it]. Not the decisions of today's coalition, because today's coalition took over the country according to the budget of the previous coalition. It's very important. Today is inflation that eats our money every day. Our state companies, whose decision-makers, or the owner, are represented by ministers, make foolish decisions. What Elering's doing today, I have to be honest with you on this speaker's desk, someone should be looking into it. Who is Elering defending? Certainly not the interests of the Estonian people. When I look at the electrics, it could have been an accident at work. Okay, the Latvian-Estonian cable was made and was not feared that such a price volatility could come, no one might have anticipated it, although in autumn there was already a risk in the air. But this, you know what's going on with LNG today? When the government finally made the decision and the entrepreneurs are ready to build the reception dock and Elering should build the pipe, Elering has said today that there will be no connection by this autumn. If the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications have said that the cost of this pipeline connection is 4 million in size, then you could, ladies and gentlemen, ask Alexela, their leaders, what offer Elering made them to build this pipe. This difference is not in percentage terms, but in multiples. If I hear from the mouth of one of the coalition's leading politicians today the sentence that Elering has said a clear message that he's doing everything he can to prevent it from coming [the tube] by autumn, then we should think a little bit. Five sharps of gas are needed by Estonia. Not all things can be paid for or produced, I don't know, with cogeneration plants, air heating, also electricity. At some point in the industry, for example in the food industry, you need 800 degrees or more. We now have 100,000 families who consume gas at home. Someone says they're gonna make a decision so they can turn off some taps overnight when they run out of gas. You know how many taps have to be closed in Estonia? There's over 40,000 of them. Can you tell me how to turn them off? None of them can be electronically controlled by pressing a button somewhere and tightening. I'd like to see what kind of company is going to screw it up, or what kind of home is going to fuck it up. You turn the temperature off in the boiler because you can't afford to pay it. And now we're at the budget, and we're talking about excise duties, and we're only talking about one excise duty. And then they say that lowering the excise duty will increase the price. I'm asking why we'll cut the excise duty if it increases the price. The excise duty is still being reduced in order to reduce input prices. Now we are asking where the people of Estonia need even lower prices. Let's talk about regular diesel. The food usually reaches the production and store with diesel engines, large trucks. The grocery store's prices, we'll see what's going on. If we are talking here about the seven-month base in this additional budget, we should have made these decisions very clearly to keep all excise duties low now, because in fact, prices are so high that more money will be received anyway. And not just a few percent, but still [more]. Let us see what fuel prices are today already over two euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U786	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U787	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellow sufferers! We are all suffering from the highest inflation rate in Europe. Each social layer suffers when its wallet melts unnoticed. We all suffer because money loses value. Reminds me of one period, which I remember: the Gorbachev-era thaw, and namely the cash settlement, when the money simply disappeared and he became more. So from experience, not just textbook wisdom, I can assure you that money can melt in your hand and lose value. Now we're here again, and the situation is worried. I can only agree with those speakers who found that we already have to prepare for the difficult autumn and winter. One of its best measures would be to bring all excise duties on fuel to a minimum, because they have the most direct effect on our price increases, including electricity excise duties. After all, the present government was also given a gift by the fact that the excise reductions made during our government's presence created a remarkable economic growth that can be enjoyed by the current government. It's proven, it's on the table, use the same method. It should not be so jealous that the next government cannot generate economic growth. Fully justified effort, tested: excise duties down and result comes. And that will also be the result when we are no longer the country with the highest price increase in Europe. But the main keywords for the action of the current government are: too late and too little. Too late, too little. This is actually true of national defence. Although we have been able to support Ukraine because, unlike Latvia and Lithuania, we have clearly kept over 2% of defence costs, we had something to take from storage. They couldn't even do it. There was something to take, but too late and too little, because the list of power gaps is so long. We should act quickly and decisively and start resolving major power gaps. Any government could solve a few power gaps. During EKRE's government, we solved the issue of coastal defence. I see it's very good for the Commander of the Defence Forces to talk about how we have sea mines, he repeats it over and over again. Now, going to the price increase, unfortunately, this lifeline has not been thrown to the people by the government, is just a trick-and-a-nothing. That's friendly advice. Friendly advice, because the Reform Party currently has a very good rating. But this rating will melt down by autumn just like the people's savings. Kaja Kallas has started to move: I read today that the Minister for Economic Affairs has been called and has been asked to do something about it. But right now, it is a moment when we can solve this issue to a very large extent without inviting the Minister for Economic Affairs and do one decent, large-scale reduction of excise duties to the minimum. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U788	Please, eight minutes in total, maybe three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U789	But actually, since we are voting on the issue of trust in this draft, there is no trust. Trust is very apparent from voters. There is no trust in the Prime Minister's ability to resolve crises so that they are foresighted and seriously resolved. If we see that there is even a rise in child support, it will be refused, the horns will be driven back. What for? This also shows that there is no willingness to slow down this severe price increase. People need a lifeline. If we have 20% of people in relative poverty, how much by autumn? Anyone of us is poor who can no longer pay the bills by this definition. And let's see how many people went to the local government's door. In fact, they were all poor, unable to pay off their daily electricity bill. So the situation is more serious than it is, and I call on sobriety, perhaps to take over the methods of the previous coalition for economic growth. You have it completely. But on the whole, the grassholes have reached the dead end, absolutely clear. That's what we see in the broad field. And when the results of the Batuchan Kiev campaign arrive in the cable industry, it's double, it's all double. It's gonna happen sooner or later. By autumn, the consequences of the Ukrainian-war campaign will be very strong on our table, multiplied by the buckets of the green turn. Indeed, in the area of inflation, we have not experienced anything like this since 1996. And somehow smiling faces can handle it. The Centre Party has realized that this isn't going anywhere, and if it's going anywhere, it's just their support for the decline. I am glad that people are seriously out there for citizens. But for the dead end of the green turn. I constantly read the frightening circumstances of the green turn to the aviation sector. I hope the planes stay in the sky. How Tarmo Soomere says that travel is one of the greatest sins, stay in the corona quarantine for a few more years. This end-of-the-world rhetoric is still so out of control. It is better to read the Bible and the story of the horn of Jericho than to seriously start talking here about the destruction of the earth by humans. To boost this, we have one positive solution: take Arno Arraku's book What Warming? [: Satellite View of Global Temperature Change]' An Estonian man, the brother of the famous artist Arrak in the United States, who wrote "Satellite View of Global Temperature Warming." What did he say from his satellite scans? No rising water, no warming, take it easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U790	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U791	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Madam Secretary! I listened to this explanation and the answers to the questions, and I began to haunt a song that I think was sung by Jaak Joala. The first words of this song, the first verses, were "The strange world, the strange people inside." Weird world, weird people inside. I remember that there was a long and long period when the Reform Party spoke through the mouth of all its representatives, how the key to Estonia's success, the key to investments in Estonia, is Estonia's low and uniform taxes. It was such a chorus that there were some bank representatives, representatives of real estate companies, politicians, bugs and bugs, bugs and lice everywhere, you know, and they all talked about how Estonia's success was based on low taxes and a uniform tax burden, a simple tax system. Well, I'm not saying it was a lie. And then came the Centre Party and pinized how you need progressive income tax. A step-by-step tax on income! The progressive income tax guarantees equal taxation for the rich and the poor, and so on and so forth. They said no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I remember there was an election where someone had a slogan not to play with taxes. And what do we see now? Now we see there's a strange world, weird people inside, and they're playing with taxes. I remember from my young generation the Beatles, who have the song "Taxman" or tax inspector, could translate like this. And there's this verse, I guess it starts like this: "There's one for me, nineteen for you," or "one part of my income for me, but 19 parts of my income for you" or the IRS. And I see that the Reform Party has smoothly embraced this ideology: we are collecting a great deal of taxes. And then I remember how the fuel excise came. Unprecedented thing, fuel excise! The long debates were why, and that makes all the inputs expensive. Transport companies were evil and kicked back. But no, well, it was pushed through because it was made clear to the public that we have such bad roads that we need to start building roads, and that we need to introduce excise duties on fuel, because excise duties on fuel will be the money to build roads. No tutkit! To build roads, maybe there's some kind of money going there, is gone, but basically he's just going to the state budget. Now we hear all the time: no tax goes anywhere specifically to do something, all taxes go into a big cup and they get taken out of it. And I guess he is. There are no roads built alone for this excise duty. But, of course, we must say that, as a result of the long, fruitful government administration of the Reform Party, we have few roads built at all. I know about 20 years of talking about four-line roads to Tartu and Pärnu and Narva and... Well, it's not going well. No germs, no rots. No germ and no rot! Now we are here, where we are again told how the reduction of excise duties does not actually reduce prices. But what's interesting is that if you increase the excise, the prices will go up. So there's no logical correlation here. In short, what do I want to say to you, honourable Reformers? You've set yourself traps, and now you've stepped into those traps. And now you're walking... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U792	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U793	... these traps are clucking on your leg with chains, and you're gonna say a story, a second story, a third story, but in fact you've adopted the philosophy of "We're gonna raise as much money from the people, then we're gonna give each one a little finger and say that you have to be grateful to us because we gave you." It's not some right-wing liberalism, it's the most real and genuine socialism. So we can say for you that at the next congress, take a new name: Socialist, Social Democratic or whatever we leave choices to you, the Reform Party. With capitalism in the free market economy, your policy has nothing to do with the competitiveness and competitive advantages of Estonian state enterprises, like your policy has nothing to do with helping people and maintaining the state's economy and finances. And finally. Let me remind you that taxes have risen in the world of great quarrels. The United States of America came up with a tax dispute, you could say that. When the central government of London wanted to tax American colonists, but not give them representation in the London Parliament, the Americans said, "No taxing without representation." No representation, no taxes. I strongly recommend considering this road roller tactic, among other things, in tax matters, in this case, the issue of excise duties, which people are looking forward to lowering. For many, it is literally a matter of survival, especially for those who live in rural areas and have to travel somewhere 50 and perhaps more kilometres away from their jobs in the city, because you have effectively destroyed rural areas. It's a matter of life. Don't play with taxes. That could be a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U794	I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. I will ask the representatives of the political groups, just in case, and do not want to take a break because we are moving towards a final vote. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U795	Thank you kindly for the offer. I accept this offer and I do indeed take ten minutes on behalf of [Estonia] Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U796	Just in case you don't have to put people in here and do it again. So you want a break for ten minutes? Got it. Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U797	Ladies and gentlemen, We have come unnoticed to the final vote of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I therefore vote on the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 606. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U798	With the result of 57 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U799	Let us move on to the 10th item, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Here too, we know that this is a matter of trust. I'd like a speech chair with Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimud.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U800	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U801	Ladies and gentlemen, Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U802	The changed security situation has put exceptional pressure on our information room. Information attacks, the information war, the Russian regime is using Russia as one weapon to destabilise Western societies, and in these circumstances we must, of course, take a particularly serious view of the need to ensure the conditions for free press to fulfil its important role. In these circumstances, where for various reasons there is no reason to hope and believe in the near future that the Member States of the European Union will be able to agree on how to fairly tax the turnover of multinational corporations, social media giants in those countries where this [turnover] occurs, the free press holding the Estonian information space must act knowing that their advertising market has decreased in size by a few hundred million euros. Clearly, it is not realistic for the State to make a permanent financial contribution to the free press operating in a market economy. This is also the case in times of crisis. That would be questionable where it is clearly not needed. But we have the opportunity to provide support through the introduction of a lower VAT rate, and we have wanted to use this opportunity with the government. It is certainly not for politicians to praise the press. We do our job, the press does our job, but in the end, we do one thing. The Estonian press has undertaken to strengthen Estonia's public information space in the context of Russia's aggression, the influence of Russia's aggression and partly with the support of previous plans. This is very important in the current circumstances. To this end, the Estonian state has given its one-off support in 2022, but in the long term it is understandable that the free press must handle this on its own. In particular, we hope that the prospects for publishing county and local newspapers will improve slightly with this step. But obviously it is equally important to keep all people living in Estonia in a pro-Estonian information space. The free press of Estonia is tough forever, but it needs to establish equal playing rules by the state. The draft before you is one step in this direction, and it must also be seen as a means of achieving this specific objective. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I would ask you to support this bill. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U803	Kalle Grünthal will begin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U804	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The first draft was also accompanied by an explanatory memorandum, and the introduction to point 1 states that the purpose of the amendment is to support the availability of Estonian quality journalism in the information war environment in Ukraine. I ask: please list which publications [are] among the Estonian quality journalisms in the context of this bill. Or what are included in this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U805	Thank you. There is no such list. I do not have a first-reading explanatory statement in front of me and it was not among the materials distributed, so I cannot comment on it. We have a second-reading explanatory statement. However, I can assure you that such a list does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U806	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U807	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I welcome this bill, but I'm just trying to understand what a world-view change has taken place in the Reform Party. From my political experience, I remember how the Reform Party has always opposed all kinds of VAT distinctions. Until then, we had a more favourable VAT rate at cultural events and, under pressure from the Reform Party, at the hands of Minister Laine Randjärv, this more favourable rate of VAT was abolished, which I think was in 2009, doing a decent service to the sector. Looking at the current situation, I think you could certainly have discussed the value added tax on cultural events. If we look at what the corona restrictions have done for two years for the entertainment sector and culture, [we can see that] there is an even greater need for help than for the press if we exclude small county publications. But why the change of mind that you now support VAT differences, but you support them selectively, only in the press, and not in other matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U808	Thank you. I don't know what you called it exactly, a change of mind, or something like that, certainly hasn't happened. We are now in a situation where the security crisis is what it has never been before, and those drafts that are linked to the additional budget are indeed directly linked to responding to this changed security situation and to the new threat picture. This justifies the submission of this draft. As has been said, in these circumstances, where Russia has used information attacks and the information war as one weapon, the functioning of the press as a free and strong one and support for it is certainly important. That is why we have presented this proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U809	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U810	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In principle, the VAT Directive of the European Union provides that, apart from the normal rate of [VAT], we may have one to two differences in the reduced rate. So says the directive, one to two distinctions. I see that we already have four: 20%, 9%, 0% and also tax-free turnover. Now there's another five, 5%. Is that a creative interpretation of this directive? How can we handle this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U811	Thank you. It was not possible for us to implement or introduce the zero rate in the past. It was agreed quite recently with the finance ministers of the European Union for this very reason in part. It was agreed that we could theoretically apply a zero rate to the press, and the reason was precisely that, in the circumstances we are currently in, and knowing that it would not be likely to agree on a digital tax for the international giants in the near future, Member States would have the right and the possibility to apply a 0% VAT rate. It wasn't there before. It's a very recent change. Our proposal is to apply a 5% rate, as Latvia and Lithuania have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U812	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U813	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your introductory speech, you said somehow that you have agreed on this will in the coalition. The Prime Minister and I discussed this in Question Time and we are not very convinced. Where do you come from with this conviction that you have a common position with a coalition partner? I see that ministers even argue with each other, not only within the coalition, but also within the party. But in the context of this bill, I much like your justification today or your explanation of this bill. When we spoke to you at first reading, you spoke about how this [change] is related to war. But I think the reasoning you're referring to right now is that there isn't. I actually want to understand if you see any perspective that this agreement could still be made so that these big corporations don't take all the advertising money out of this advertising market. That is an adequate reason for this bill. But in this context, the question remains why now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U814	Thank you. The context, however, has precisely changed the security situation. In these circumstances, a reliable press and its functioning are certainly even more important and more critical than it may be in some peaceful times. Now, as far as your reference to disputes are concerned, I myself believe that the dispute is generally a healing matter, especially if it is substantive. So it's really nice when government members have the strength and the strength to discuss and debate things. I'm sure it's nice and sensible. On this draft, I have reason to believe and believe that there is a consensus, as is the case with the next supplementary draft budget. The timing of whether and when it would be likely that the digital tax applied to large corporations will come, I do not currently risk forecasting. I see debates that do not really depend solely on the Member States of the European Union, because in fact this requires a global approach and readiness is still very volatile in the large countries. Therefore, I am not overly optimistic that it will be implemented in such a way that it will work effectively globally. This is also the reason why, in the current changed circumstances, I think it is very sensible in this way, as long as work is being done to reach an agreement, we have to support this bill and implement the change here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U815	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U816	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, we have now been assured that this is a war budget, and that is why VAT needs to be reduced. The interesting thing is, of course, that it can't get much worse than war, but VAT has been reduced to less than half of the possible. I mean, you could've gotten 1% if that 0% came so unexpectedly. Does this really mean that in order to reduce VAT even more, the Russian troops should be under Virtsu? Or when should VAT be reduced? Where is the war supposed to go so that the government would have been willing to reduce VAT a little [more]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U817	Thank you. The proposal to set a 5% rate would bring the value added tax (VAT) applicable to the press in Estonia to the same level as in Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U818	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U819	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The press is certainly not the one who guarantees or fights for security. On the contrary, the press incites panic and feeds on conflicts. That's right. But I have a question that you are the Minister of Finance and you are making a tax credit, but you are telling us here that you do not know who you are doing it for. We do not have hundreds or dozens of press companies in Estonia, but you say cruelly that you do not know. You hide it and you don't want to tell me. Read out a couple of press companies that you are [relating to] quality journalism and are now going to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U820	Thank you. I said that there was no such list as requested by the previous questioner, and that is not part of this draft. For example, the media union includes 50 publications, especially county newspapers. This [draft] is largely relevant to the publications that are issued in the counties of Estonia. Unfortunately, in the case of county leaves, in the case of smaller leaves appearing as prints, the situation has become more difficult. For them, this is quite important help and support. I do not agree that the press is not helping in any way and is not an important part of the information war that is currently going on. I think he's a very important part. Similarly, I am convinced that the credibility of the press plays an important role in these very critical times and that it must be maintained, it must be assessed. Politicians and governments cannot and must not intervene directly in this. But what we can do is precisely the creation of competition rules, which is the subject of the proposal before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U821	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U822	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Of course, it cannot be disputed that the security situation has changed, but the question is that you responded to Priidu that you have reason to believe certain things. I would like to know on the basis of which analyses and indicators you have made such a decision in the first place. Are there any calculations behind this, or do you just think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U823	Estimates of what exactly? I guess the question got a little incomplete. Of course, the analysis is behind this bill, and it is precisely as I said when I answered Mrs Kert Kingo's question, among other things, that in our circumstances, where there is an information war and information attacks, absolutely every day, no one else can wage this war as a literal front-line press. [Monitoring publications] are those who often reject this information attack. This draft is intended to support precisely such publications. And perhaps this is particularly important for small county newspapers, for whom the competitive situation is currently very difficult, but whose role today is important. For them, among other things, this draft has been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U824	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U825	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since you couldn't tell us which editions are quality journalism, I would read these publications that are not reliable: Eesti Ekspress, Postimees, Eesti Päevaleht, Message page. When I told you that vaccines pose a threat and cause death and severe permanent trauma, these newspapers wrote about me as being a lameman, talking very stupidly, and being a coroner. Then I told him that the [vaccine] should go to court when there is an extermination, once again I was laughed out, and so on and so forth. The same was true of the safety of masks. Do you agree that the press publications I have mentioned do not belong to the quality journalism category?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U826	Thank you. That's your assessment, and I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U827	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U828	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think that if Jürgen Ligi heard our current debate, he would say that VAT is not a cost to the company and, in fact, it will help them relatively little, whether it is the publishers of the press or something else. But the truth is, for the reader, the page becomes 3.8% more accessible, i.e. cheaper. My question is that [you think] this 3.8% is very important during the war. But why do you think that, during war, energy carriers are not absolutely essential to people's access to them? The Fatherland proposed a reduction in VAT on fuels, which was rejected by the government. Where do you come from? It is very important for the county papers to be available, I agree. But what about the fact that during war, energy prices are not a priority at all, where do you come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U829	Thank you. There is no such knowledge. We also exchanged views on energy prices during the debate on the previous point, and I will continue to say that what will certainly help to reduce energy prices is the presence of supply. This is what we need to invest in, and that is what we are doing, and we need to invest in energy savings, and that is what we are doing. So I do not agree with you that it is not important for [our] energy prices. But I'll have to adjust what you put forward as a fact that the page will be 3.8% cheaper for readers according to your calculation. It may not be that way. Whether the additional money that remains on the pages will be used to improve quality or whether it will be used in other ways, whether it will be used to pay journalists' salaries or otherwise, is not what we can prescribe with this bill. A specific decision on how to use it [the money] is still up to the newspaper publisher himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U830	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U831	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the changed security situation and the war were originally the reason why VAT reductions were granted to media houses. On the other hand, you have repeatedly stressed that media companies are not going to write anything about what they have to do with this money, free media. How, then, can this objective of a tax reduction be met so that, in a changed security situation, the media reflect precisely the issues for which the money was left in their hands? Maybe they decide to report social news or Epp Kärsini's suggestions for a full life as a free press? How does this coincide with the original objectives of the [draft]? What will the government do if this happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U832	Thank you. Part of this draft is certainly not specific expectations of content, cannot and must not be. However, this bill excludes certain types of press publications, as is currently the case with the law. Paragraph 1 (2) of the [proposal] states that the 5% rate does not apply to publications which mainly publish advertising and private advertisements or are mainly journalism publications with erotic or pornographic content or with video or musical content. Such a restriction is in this bill that has been submitted to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U833	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U834	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! All this time, you're just gonna be here. You just said you didn't have a list, and then you said that not all newspapers or press publications qualify here. Secondly, I would ask you that you said that there is no specific list. But in view of the additional national budget, you should know how many companies there are. After all, this has a direct impact on the additional budget; you must be able to count on the amounts. Are you really saying that you just put an arbitrary amount on your hip and you don't know how many press companies there are or who they are? I mean, you guys really do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U835	Thank you. What I referred to is the bill before you. If you open it, you do not even have to open it, it is on the opening page of § 1 (2), which lists which publications the VAT rate of 5% applies to. It's on the table for all of you, and if it's not on the table, it'll be available on the shelf behind you or electronically. Indeed, there is no list of specific press publications for this draft, there has never been a list. The impact is set out in the draft explanatory memorandum. Of course, it's been calculated, so the claim that something's come from your hip is definitely not true. If necessary, I can say the impact here: in 2022, this specific change will reduce VAT receipts by around EUR 1.7 million and in 2023 it is likely to have an impact of EUR 4 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U836	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U837	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. As an ex-journalist, I'm a little embarrassed. The Nelli Journal is a page that looks like a tabloid, but it has always been very informed and much better [informed] than so-called quality pages have been for years. Now I've opened this page for a long time and I'll make sure there's a week's dive: Helmeles, Mai, Teresa, Andra, Keira, Reena, Irmi, Mari, Gerda, Maldi, Virgi and so on. All these pictures. But they've always had pictures like this... otherwise decent, but a little half-naked. Does the Nelli Journal qualify for your VAT reduction? I would stress that this has been a very serious and very well-informed newspaper for years, but one such picture of a girl has always been inside. Name's different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U838	Thank you. I don't have a chance to browse this page right now, and even if I did, maybe it's not that important right now. The definition of which press publications will be subject to a specific tax rate will not change. That is also the case with the current law. For those currently subject to a 9% rate, a 5% rate will apply in the future. So if one or the other press edition is currently qualified at a rate of 9%, then in the future it will qualify at a rate of 5% VAT.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U839	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U840	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You've been talking about quality journalism all along. You don't want to give us the list, and you won't tell who it's going to be. But in a sense, right, we all know what we're talking about when we're talking about quality journalism. I'll come back to my last question. This same quality journalism, the whole press also reflects social news, has been Epp Kärsinist tales and Estonian Express also had a big tabloid story. How does it match the original objectives of [the draft] when the same quality journal decides to put this money in Epp Kärsin's stories or in other personal stories? How do you keep these things separate, these original goals, the changed security situation and the war, so that this money does not go into social media and reflect politicians' actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U841	Thank you. You have some conflicting views. The Member sitting behind you on a diagonal was worried some time ago that politicians would be exposed to little and should be more reflected, and [he asked:] how this is justified and do I agree with it that this was personally reflected in a way that was unfair to him. Once again, there will be no change to which press publications will be subject to a specific tax rate. [These publications, for which] the current law has a rate of 9%, will in future be subject to an increase of 5%. These are publications which are indeed predominantly content-producing and which are not mainly publications that publish advertising or private advertisements. This has already been defined by the legislator and you have had this definition available on the table for all these years. That is true, there will be no change in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U842	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U843	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Does this [amendment] also concern the press issued in Russian in Estonia? It was said here that this is the age of the information war. Is this [amendment] also relevant to Russian-language publications and are you convinced that all these publications will send Estonia positive and necessary messages during the information war? Does this also concern the Russian-speaking press?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U844	Thank you. No linguistic distinction has been made, as is the case with the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U845	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U846	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'd like a bit of a wider picture. It is a difficult time and an additional budget. How did you choose such an interesting bouquet to support? One-off children and pensioners, six months after farmers and now without a deadline, forever and ever, quality publications, except mainly with erotic or pornographic content. Where does that come from? Do they form this most distressing company in the Republic of Estonia in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U847	Thank you. They are directly linked to the effects of war and the need to mitigate it or support one or the other specific sector. In my introductory speech, I have already explained that the information attacks and the information war are part of what Russia is knowingly using and has been using for a very long time, probably in the future, will continue to use for a very long time to destabilise Western societies. In these circumstances, the high-quality press, the free press have a very important role to play, and that is why the Government Union has considered it important to come before you with this proposal and proposes, in this way, that the media be given the opportunity and the conditions to carry out this important work in the current security situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U848	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U849	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would also like everything that promotes reading habits to always be taxed at a lower rate. But with this option, I ask if I understood correctly that quality journalism is the one who does not sell advertising to his own publication and deals with content stories. My question is that, in this difficult situation, I would expect the government, as the beneficiaries of the advantage, to counterbalance the systematic description of how to cope in a crisis situation: how to cook, if there is no electricity, how to get warm if there is no gas. Has the Government of the Republic committed [to publications] that before you wrote about Mukki's difficult life, but now [you must write] about how to cope in the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U850	Thank you. There is no such obligation. I do not know if it was meant to be ironic, but for me it is actually a very important and serious issue, namely the issue of the dissemination and spread of disinformation in information attacks and in the information war, and how to counter these attacks. Parliament has also made one report on this issue, which is certainly still available on the page of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I suggest you get acquainted with it if you're interested. This is a subject that will not disappear for a very long time, it will be used as one weapon in the whole package of attacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U851	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U852	Thank you, good vice chairman. No, it was not an attack on my part, but an information war has been said for over ten years, a good number since then. Right now, I see we're taking this kind of softer line of defense. For example, when they say that one of our artists, this or the other, has something to do with the Kremlin, we start, on the contrary, writing beautiful stories about him that have nothing to do with it. But my vision is that at this point in time, quality journalism could still prepare readers for how to cope in the summer, if you do not have a shower or hot water, and how to wash yourself in the forest in a crisis, if perhaps three weeks must be there. It could be prepared. This can also be done through a soft personalized story. The aim could be to use all possible means to create people's interest in how to cope in a crisis situation. Could this be a sensible recommendation from the state for quality journalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U853	Thank you. I would refrain from prejudging or recommending the content of the state's quality journalism. But I'm sure you'll be able to propose to the press. But indeed, this has nothing to do with this particular draft. No one wants or gives suggestions about content here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U854	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U855	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This media support measure, the VAT cut, is proposed because of the so-called war and security situation. But another important area is food security. Is there any hope that, in the same wind, we will also sail to ensure that local, Estonian-specific fruits and vegetables can have a fall in VAT, as Latvia did in order to make them more accessible and to support the local food producer? Food security is scary for us. You can fire the newspaper, but if there's nothing to put on the pan, it's still a bad story. Can we count on the fall in VAT on Estonian berries, fruits and vegetables?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U856	Thank you. I agree that food security and putting something on the pan are certainly important. The previous draft, which was approved by Parliament, was directly linked to food security. The example of Latvia, to which you have referred, is worth dismantling and looking at in this sense. However, in the same Latvian example, it must be said that this did not have a long-term effect on price. I'm afraid that's the case. With the current additional budget, we have not tabled such proposals to Parliament. The VAT law currently before you is directly related to the press and no additional annexes have been submitted to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U857	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U858	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Don't you think this is a serious violation of the principle of equal treatment? What do you mean, "no support" or "no VAT reduction"? These advertising journals are just as related to war as the quality Evening Paper, which, by the way, already at 19.41 p.m., officially announced that the additional budget had been adopted. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U859	Well, that's great, maybe they have some information we don't have yet. However, the definition that journalism publications that mainly publish advertising and private advertisements do not qualify for a lower VAT rate still exists in the current law, it is not a change of any kind. This has indeed been the decision that Parliament has taken. I think it's been a sensible decision, and that's what we're stuck with. We have not wished to open this debate now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U860	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Mr Puustusmaa, I assure you that two heads still have two heads, that you and I are currently on item 10 and the additional budget is item 11; we have not yet reached that point. But now the situation is that we are opening negotiations. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White. Please! It's a little extra time, isn't it? Yeah. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U861	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that this draft should have been prepared in a much more systematic and thorough manner and discussed properly, as it should be in Parliament. Now I have to respond to the statement of the President of the Reform Party Group that it is our group that will not allow discussion due to the presentation of obstructive amendments, and that is why the Riigikogu will detract from parliamentarianism. That certainly doesn't work. Parliamentaryism is a system of power-sharing and cooperation. Parliamentaryism is a competition for ideas and, at the same time, a co-operation, not a fight. But the Reform Party has dealt with its political activities as a struggle. In other words, instead of parliamentarianism, a so-called road roll system has been implemented, or designed, with arguments on one side and votes on the other side. In this situation, the opposition does not have a path other than an obstruction in order to get a government coalition to negotiate, i.e. to implement parliamentaryism. I would like to point out that the obstruction is designed to ensure that Parliamentaryism is implemented. As Moonika Helme pointed out earlier, in the case of a number of drafts during this government, it has just been the case that a reasonable parliamentary compromise has been found after the obstruction threats. But not on these four drafts today. The linking of the preclaims with a vote of confidence, as the government has done, is a clear deviation from Parliamentaryism. And I, if I do a little detour now, really cannot name any country where democracy and parliamentaryism would have collapsed as a result of the citizens' own choice, as left-wing politicians claim, by threatening the dangers of referendums. However, democracy has collapsed due to the coup d'état of the elite. In many cases, it has just begun to misinterpret the rules of procedure. By the way, the most classic example is the Republic of Weimar, where democracy collapsed because the rules of procedure were interpreted as the authors of the constitution had not thought. In Estonia's parliamentary regime, the legislative power belongs to the Riigikogu, but the linking of the draft with the question of trust enables the Riigikogu's draft to be essentially excluded from the proceedings. Excessive use of such an opportunity is by no means in line with the principle of parliamentary democracy. So far, however, in the practice of parliamentarianism in Estonia, it has been relatively seldom used to relate to the issue of trust. What is important now is that, on these four drafts, the government coalition has not really tried to find a serious compromise, perhaps to implement parliamentaryism. There was only one contact that remained. I would also like to remind you that the Aliens Act was also pushed through by disregarding the principle of parliamentaryism. It was a lame trick that is not in any way characteristic of dignified politicians who should be a role model for the rest of society. It is true that there would never have been any compromise on our part in the case of the Aliens Act, because there are no compromises on the point of the Constitution. Okay. But now my amendments, which I could not justify in the committee. They were primarily linguistic. I quote Tiit Hennostet, co-professor of the University of Tartu: "The life force of the Estonian nation is at the bottom of the vitality of the Estonian intellectual languages. Spiritual languages are the language of literature, education, science, and religion. " And he continues: "With full responsibility, I can say that when scientific thinking disappears from the Estonian language (I stress: Thinking, J. V.), things are bad, because then only the cuisine will survive from the language. " An ordinary person cannot do much for the sustainability of the Estonian scientific language, but Hennoste says that the state could do so. It's hard not to accept that. The number of linguistic proposals I made became possible due to the fact that the text of the law I made amendments to was not in clear Estonian. The drafts are prepared by officials, often with a law degree, but there are also those who have been trained in a [other speciality], usually in Estonian universities. However, there has been a rapid English-speaking process at Estonian universities, i.e. internationalisation has taken place using euphemism. It is now necessary to reinstate Estonian universities, to create conditions for the use of Estonian in universities. The corresponding draft of the EMRE is in the process. Once we get the correct Estonian language to the universities again, students will be taught in a proper Estonian language, and if they become officials, they will be able to write drafts in a proper Estonian language. Honestly, I don't know how soon this change will take place, but we need to get this thing on the right track. But I know that what we can do now is to maintain parliamentaryism. Except I don't know again if it's possible with a government coalition like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U862	Thank you very much. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Merry Aart. Maybe a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U863	Just in case, that's the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U864	Yes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U865	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It saddens us that we do not focus on real needs and expert analyses. I would very much like to support the idea that people must manage themselves and that this opportunity can be given to them by the Government of the Republic through the conditions created for this purpose. This [can only be done] by the Government of the Republic, not by anyone else. I come to the food, because this is my area. There are four countries in the European Union that have not reduced VAT on food in one way or another. EKRE has made proposals in the past to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables grown in Estonia, indeed, as I recall, we proposed to reduce VAT to 9%. I remember a conference with the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, where the Ministry of Finance said that their research did not show a positive result. They had been to Latvia and, I don't remember exactly, but, as I recall, also in Lithuania in several trade chains and found that the price in the shop was not significantly lower for the consumer. It established that the VAT reduction did not produce a positive result. It wasn't the Latvians' goal. Their aim was to support their producer and legalise their production, and they carried out this task. The analysis must be carried out in accordance with the target set. I will use the data of the Latvian Ministry of Agriculture and give some examples. VAT on fruit and vegetables fell to 5% in Latvia. As a result, fruit and vegetable prices decreased, true, not very much, but decreased. The growth area increased by 8.5%, while the turnover of fruit and vegetable products increased by 16% throughout the country. The sector's shadow economy decreased by 20%. Companies operating legally in the market have become more competitive. The VAT registered increased by 9%, the sector's turnover increased by 9%. The value of locally produced fruit and vegetable products increased by 45% over the year. The number of employees in the sector increased by 6%. So what's the result? Can we say that the reduction in VAT did not work? I recognize the Latvians. They can analyze, make decisions and respect their businesses and people. Let me give you a few more examples. For example, Poland reduced the prices of inputs, except on fertiliser, to 0%. True, temporarily, but they will continue to do so from August this year. Finland reduces its food [VAT]. He already has lower value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs, but he'll bring it down further to 5%. This is again due to the competitiveness of its producers [enhancing]. The question is, why are they doing this? Are they so stupid that they do things that don't make sense? How long do we expect our producers to still be able to produce? If the goal is to gradually stop our own food production, then at least we are honest and say it straight. How long are we gonna get our producers to broom the water uphill? Sometimes it feels like our food producers are enemies of the country. Before next year's state budget, we still need to have a very serious debate on this issue and find solutions. I cannot vote in favour of this draft because a reduction in the value added tax (VAT) for the press from 9% to 5% is really not an act that the people of Estonia would badly need. Rather, media owners need it. We would expect a tax reduction that would help the Estonian people and Estonian producers and strengthen the Estonian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U866	Thank you very much. Now please prepare the Helle-Moonika Helme speech chair of the Riigikogu and Paul Puustusmaa next. Small sports competitions, yeah. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U867	Yeah, I'd like an extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U868	How much of three minutes do you take?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U869	That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U870	That's it, right? Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U871	Good fellows! President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. We are now working on a draft amendment to the VAT Act, the sole aim of which is to reduce the VAT on press publications. I would, of course, very much have liked us to have discussed here instead how and how much to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs, in order to smooth out the already powerful rise in food prices to consumers, which our apogee is likely to achieve in the coming winter or next year. I would also have hoped that the government would have brought a draft reduction in the value added tax (VAT) on energy and fuels on our table, which in turn would have prevented the enormous price shock that awaits us, because all the increases in energy prices are reflected in the price increases on our food table, in the consumption of our goods and services. The primary task of the government should be to protect the citizens of its country and to help them survive and cope with crises. Very many countries have already done so in a way or another. Even the southern neighbour of Latvia is discussing the decoupling of the bio-component from car fuels in order to lower the price of car fuel to the consumer. Our government, however, sits on a strong face and only declares that everything that is happening is due to wider crises in the world and they cannot do anything. It would be fair to say, of course, that they do not want to do anything because the people and their livelihoods do not matter to the Prime Minister's war princess. He's got the keys to the barn, and he's not gonna give anything out of it, whether it's inflamed mice or poverty rats. In this light, of course, it is notable that the same war princess kindly turned the barn door open when it was necessary to come to the media houses whose owners, by the way, are long ago millionaires and could manage their media houses without taxpayers' millions. But why did it have to be done? You know that from the bread and the song? Well, there you go. Those who have been watching what is happening in our media have probably long noticed what praises and articles that support government activities are full of mainstream media. And now, in view of the upcoming elections, two wealthy media houses were given a gift with public money so that this praise would continue and the asphalt holes, which the people will feel more and more with their asses in the coming winter, would be smoothed out with praising propaganda. Throughout the Estonian Express, when we are talking about quality journalism, the list was not given to us, but we know in a sense what we are talking about, we are talking about the Estonian Express, i.e. the publications of the Luige media house have, by the way, all the information operations of recent years against the opponents of the Reform Party. Marti Kusik's defamation campaign started there. Mary Kross' unfounded accusations were first filed there as the truth of the last instance before the police overturned them. All ideological attacks on the family, against nationalism, against a conservative world have begun there. After all, the current mother form of liberal consensus in Estonia, or Kaja Kallas, will have to pay a premium through the state budget, which is so transparent and understandable. But, by the way, sometimes even the Estonian Express is worth reading, even in order to find out about the planned hogs of the government. A few weeks ago the Reform Party's voice bearer, or in the current context, when crossing the Estonian Express with its eyes on a diagonal scale, could read that since it has been relatively easy for paedophiles to change their last name in accordance with the current name law and, in fact, to tighten the procedure, it is planned to change the name law in the government. It's a good goal, isn't it? You're asking me where this shit is hiding. However, since the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act have not entered into force, as the Riigikogu has not approved it so far, this bill also seeks to force opportunities for the same sexes. Under the current rules, they cannot take a common last name now, just as married people, men, and women do. And what am I reading about the Estonian Express? I read that the current Ministry of the Interior, led by Kristian Jaan, has now rewritten the bill in this way that the conclusion of the partnership agreement will be introduced as another compelling reason so that the same sexes can take on a common last name. It has not yet been submitted to the Riigikogu and according to the Estonian Express, it is moving to the coordination circle in different ministries. But now at least we know that this government has not buried the ideas relating to the Cohabitation Act [and tries to put them in the corner of the Riigikogu, hidden among other laws. Nothing, at least now we know what's going on again. Perhaps we would have discovered it without this article, because we have been reading all the drafts coming from the government for a long time, because we do not trust them. But it's good to know anyway. We would, of course, have been tried to sell it as an aggravating amendment to the paedophile, but at the same time [the bill] would have included implementing legislation on cohabitation for the same sex. I'll tell you in advance: it won't work. Well, I guess we'll see. I guess they're gonna vote on trust again like they did today. But I'm asking why we're even processing government drafts here. [Why] are we proposing good and substantive amendments to them [by seeking to deal with the drafts] as properly and as best as possible, even though our proposals are not going to work anyway? If the government is so arrogant, I swear to God, every Monday you vote on all your drafts for the week immediately and we go home, which we're still playing dumb here. If the government rolls its way through its own will and [push] its drafts numbly, in violation of its rules of procedure and rules, and hence of the Constitution, and the President, as the last arbiter and the constitutional guardian, signs it all, there is nothing to talk about. In my opinion, we have had a constitutional crisis a long time ago, it was already in the Korona, when the constitutional rights of the people were violated by this government on a daily basis. And now the same government trusts itself in this Chamber today. How pathetic, how ridiculous, how helpless!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U872	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Paul Puustusmaa. I'm gonna go ahead and ask you what's going on with the extra time, and I'm not gonna get in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U873	I'll take half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U874	Half an hour? It can only be realized in three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U875	That's good!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U876	Got it. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U877	All right, ladies and gentlemen. We have changed our security situation and there is a war going on, and all of which are still being taken off VAT on the press! Stupid is the one who doesn't make excuses, we all know it's true. Or, as the old Romans said, let's put that circles, bread and circus! The circus has become abundant. The Romans had it that they distributed bread publicly somewhere, but who knows, maybe they already shared bread there. Well, the circus here has become and not enough! There's another good penny I had about this day that started to glow very well in my ears. It's a saying that in crises, people are looking for strong solutions, but weak people are looking for guilty people. We have four drafts here that are somewhat related. The most recent draft, which is still to come, and which we have not yet begun to discuss, 608 SE, is the budget itself. Here we already had value added tax and family benefits and stuff like that. Indeed, the circus is also in the media. As I said earlier, at 19.41 I read in the evening that this additional budget has been adopted by 60 votes. All right, cool! I was wondering how it's going. It went on to say that the second draft came and that it was not announced by the Evening Paper, but that Delfi announced that the draft had been adopted by minus three votes. I'm starting to think that [how] goes on now, 60 minus 3 is 57. We have one more [draft]. Well, another minus three maybe? Who knows? Maybe our diner will offer us some sweet soup and then we'll come out clean. Who knows! But all right! A gallows gallows joke. But I have to say, this circus that's going on here is really impudent. It's a fool who can't think of a reason. I'm sorry! I am quite clear that Urmas Reinsalu's statement that this draft state budget is an embarrassing piece of work. It's a mess! They said, "Why is he a piece of shit?" Come on, wartime! We have to get this situation out of the war, we have to save Ukraine, we have to do all this, we have 800 million. Imagine, $800 million! We actually have a budget of 13 billion. That's 10%, well, a little less than 10%, that's pretty crazy. And how much of this is really for the war? [How much] can we get out of that budget for the war? Really, there's 6 million, that's 0.75%. Holy shit! For that, we could probably build a base on the moon. In this regard, it can be said that for such a small amount of money for the war, this 6 million, we could really take the state or government from the reserve fund. So there's more bread and circus here than rouble. It's embarrassing. And then we have a good colleague, Mart Võrguship, when we read the first bill, and he's not talking about the bill, not the first one, not the second, not the third, not the fourth, but, as I said, the weak are looking for the guilty. He began: the EKRE is guilty, the EKRE is doing everything in its power to prevent this wartime budget from being adopted and we cannot help Ukraine. And what comes out? In the context of war, there is nothing here but this small 0,75% and then there are VAT reductions for the press, for quality journalism, and for other political points. And then the Gridship says that now it wants all the members of the EKRE to come and tell their constituents and, of course, their voters why they're against this thing, why they're doing the obstruction. Well, let's explain. We have now come to this situation, good people, why we are doing this obstruction, so that, first of all, if there were a normal attitude between the coalition and the opposition, we would have been able to bring in some improvements that were really interesting and important for us and also necessary for the people, and that would have been resolved. But no, there was a need to be stubborn, to take political points and to make a budget that had no connection or almost no connection with war, almost no connection to these difficult circumstances. In the end, you could say that once every king finds his throne and every fool finds his circus. We've found one and the other here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U878	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please! And I'll ask you in advance if you want a total of eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U879	Yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U880	Got it. Then we'll give you eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U881	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! Some of these are not correct at this point in time, because we cannot simply vote through all the possible amendments. What is strange, though, is that the same draft has been put to a vote of confidence. Who can have something [against], I don't know that, for example, in Stina, which [represents stories], how a girl grows up, sometimes tells beautiful stories about, for example, how Estonian football fans have been in solidarity with Ukrainian football fans since 2014 and have sung all these years on the stands "Putin huilo," and stories about [then] that there has been a football support group in the Riigikogu in Estonia, and all of them agree? Or where do these personal stories come from? This is not the Estonian Express, because the Minister said that these publications do not sell advertising. Perhaps the Estonian Forest is the only publication with no advertising. Imagine that there would be some new Husqvarna ad in the Estonian Forest! What else is there [to advertise]? Perhaps the sedatives, that the Estonian forest is not so bad, and if you are calmed, it is like good. On this draft, I think that the country could also have its own expectations and hopes. [The State could] say that we wish that we could now more reflect how to cope and how important it is for a female home protection app "Be ready!" that we are also mentally prepared. But we don't give any instructions, let's say you write some nice stories. [For example] how hard it is to knit hands when there is no right yarn. It's also quite necessary, but to some extent we know that if it gets ugly, that beautiful talk won't help much. That is why I would see that the state could say that we should reflect more on how to be prepared ourselves. As helpers, helpers, donors, we are well and with a great heart, and for this we are a great credit to the Estonian people. They say we're very narrow-minded, hateful and jealous of strangers, but you see, we still have a warm and spacious heart. What's not understood is that if you go along with that same thought, we'll have a crack! ugly times, but we're talking about beautiful things: meadow and river, rabbit running and butterfly flying. Erotic and pornographic [Tale] eroticism should also be exhilarating, all the more so, quoting the band Winny Pooh, cannot forbid anyone, which the poor and the poor are the only pleasure, the only tivoli, the only natural anesthesia. Perhaps in the Estonian Forest there could be such appeals and such things. It seems to me that with some sort of thought flight someone has flown somewhere very forest, when the reduction of VAT in quality journalism has to do with the question of the confidence of the Estonian Government. Really. The Estonian state wants quality journalism that introduces Estonia's progress, the people, all of it, and somebody is against it. Where did the government come up with the idea that someone would object to such a good bill? Why would anyone object to writing interesting personal stories about my colleagues, for example? No one would mind. Or we could find out about our athletes or actors or those who are currently volunteering in Ukraine and delivering there, such as my good comrade Ants Ermis, who is currently in Ukraine and who has been doing this to the NGOs since 2014 and who has supported these people. Where did the government come up with the idea that we were against it? And now we all have to think that if the government has bound this matter of trust, there's some kind of trouble here. Seriously! As if we would be very bored here in the Riigikogu, that in the meantime we would get the saw going and tie [the draft] to a matter of trust. How much was that from the budget? I understand that we are being driven by some larger amount of money, that not 6 million will be placed directly in the national defence budget, but 12 million out of this 800 million. Then we would call out in opposition: "Lord, what happened now? Is the government quite seriously [was it]? " It seems to me that there's some sort of " bullshit'around here that once it's done, we'll give somebody more. In my opinion, all things that develop the ability to read and understand the text could be more favorable to people. Similarly, women's home protection apps could be introduced to both women and men in high-quality journalism and also in poor-quality journalism, because, as we understand, poor-quality journalism is forced to sell advertising because it is poor-quality. High-quality, however, does not need advertising; it needs state support. Well, I don't believe it's really like that now, but I don't believe it's really the way the bill tells us here. I don't know. If it weren't for the vote of confidence, I'd be in favour of it. However, since this is linked to a vote of confidence and there is a crisis of confidence in such matters, I do not trust this government. Thank you to the government for helping us understand the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U882	Thank you. I now ask Riigikogu to speak to Riho Breivel. I'm gonna look at you here and ask you about the extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U883	Life will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U884	Life will show. Please, Mr. Breivel!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U885	Thank you, manager. Act amending the VAT Act. I have this feeling that these are the laws that we should be discussing, that we should discuss with each other, that we should find the best solutions. Well, according to Tarmo, Tarmo actually has the law of thaw. If we do not trust Parliament, who else do we trust? Today we kill parlementarity and kill precisely by linking such matters to a vote of confidence. Obstruction is not a good solution either, but it is at least democratic because we can have a say. But right now we can only express our opinion on the remote. And frankly, the parties that run this process, they don't care if we say something or we don't say anything, because they're going to do their thing anyway, and they're going to push their way. Act amending the VAT Act. Of course, it is nice to be able to reduce VAT and thus speed up processes. But we're gonna take a slice and start motivating it. The Socialist Island rightly said that VAT on cultural institutions was not reduced to 5%. My view is that the reduction of VAT on cultural institutions would be extremely important in such a changed security situation, because it is precisely the area where these problems are brought to the public and the people are helped to understand what is actually happening. In general, it is also very difficult to buy the system of cultural institutions. But right now, it really feels like the liberals are trying to buy the media. I am very sorry about this, because the media should also be a cultural institution that gives us information about the truth. Who's gonna appreciate it? Who's gonna tell us what quality journalism is? Is Narva Narvski Prospect quality journalism? Who's gonna tell me this isn't quality journalism? I say it's a very high-quality press. We must be much more constructive in making certain decisions. We must not kill Parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U886	Thank you very much. And now I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. Please! Your thoughts and opinions on Bill 607.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U887	I'll take some extra time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U888	Yeah, please, an extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U889	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who are watching us! The presentation of the draft by the Minister and these arguments were still quite embarrassing to hear. It was a spin, it was a wrestling, it was an informed denial and presentation of incorrect data. That was embarrassing. We have had a so-called pandemic situation in the country for almost two years, during which all companies have been under great pressure. As a result, very many companies have been forced to shut down due to bankruptcy or are currently at the border of bankruptcy, trying to cope somehow. As a result, many people have become unemployed and their situation has deteriorated. In addition, we have a 19% inflation rate. We have increased electricity prices to cosmic heights in the rush of this great green turning, gas prices exactly the same way. Fuel prices have risen high, including food and consumer goods, all prices have increased. And then we will have a minister who is a member of the Reform Party, who will present us with an additional budget of over EUR 800 million, and will say: we will be able to provide support. So money is, because if it's possible to provide support, then it's money. But this support goes to the press, not to those people, to those entrepreneurs who are in trouble. It's going to the press. How does the press help people who have problems at home and are struggling to cope with them or entrepreneurs who are struggling and struggling in debt? The Minister here made an important point of explaining how important our press has been in such a difficult time as the war situation. I'll inform the Minister. When a person has to think about how to last until tomorrow, to have a little money to buy food for his family, for his children, the press is the last thing he needs. He just doesn't care. If electricity is not paid, there is no television, if there is no money, there is no food, and if there is no heat paid or there is no firewood, then it is just cold. There is no need for literature [in this situation]. I don't think anyone's gonna use their low income to buy newspaper paper to heat the oven. It's just nerve. But what's really behind it? Why has the government made such choices? Remember, this is the proverb you mentioned once before: Whose bread you eat, this song you sing. Basically, it's buying out the press, domesticating. Instead of talking about how the press has a bearing role and is very difficult for them, perhaps the problem should be to find out why the press is not able to sell enough of its own products. The usual balance between demand and supply should be here. Produce content that is willing to read and that is of interest to people, but they will also find the means, and then they will buy it. But, of course, as long as there is no content, they don't want to buy it. The Minister also said that politicians have not intervened in the press and he is not in favour of it, and they will not do it either. But buying out the press, paying off and domesticating it is exactly what you're doing. That's what you're getting into, you're interfering with the press. We see it beautifully in what the Minister called it, in quality journalism, I would not call it quality journalism; unfortunately, we do not have any flourishing articles about members and ministers of the Reform Party, fine stories. The Prime Minister was here, and the Prime Minister was there, and soon the Prime Minister will be diving, flying under the sky and performing miracles. This is ridiculous. Of course, the fact that we are essentially already diving into pre-election time and in order to get the right reflection for ourselves, these glowing and imaginary articles about ideal, super smart, super talented, I don't know, super-hyper people, we have to start paying for the press. We give them an advantage at this difficult time, when our own people are unable to put children into trainings, so many cannot afford to have basic human life, because not everyone lives in the Viimsi residential area in Tallinn. But the press is basically paid for and always paid to get the right reflection for themselves. Out of a budget of over EUR 800 million, virtually nothing was achieved for families with children, people with disabilities, pensioners and those who are less well-managed. This EUR 50 lump sum is a mockery. But you see, you found money for the press, and that says everything about the priorities of current government leaders. Just one hustling, only a bribe. The real content of your rule is simply governance over governance just to ensure that you have consistent and years of governance, not [wish] to be available to your people, to stand up for your country and to protect your people. Therefore, it is simply not possible to support this draft and, in the case of this draft, we cannot talk about any confidence in the government. It's very embarrassing about the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U890	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Priit Sibula. [[Priit Onion is coughing.]] Voice off? Clear your voice. It's an extra time question right from the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask for that extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U892	Time will be discussed. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U893	If I may, I would like to begin by congratulating you as chairman of the Centre Party. This enormous enthusiasm and what we see, how the government proves and proves to us its unity are impressive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U894	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U895	Estonia is in safe hands, things are going well if you look at it from your side. With the next bill, we will also hear the performance of a good colleague, Janus, where he will tell us why he supports the bill, what is good there and what is missing. But now for this bill. I don't see any conspiracy or problem in this bill. The only concern is what I have already expressed at first reading and on some issues to the Minister. The reasons that the Minister presented today when he came to the remote were very sympathetic to me. If this had also happened last time and was based on the digitalisation that we hoped for, even during the Government of Prime Minister Ratas, and on which the agreement had to come, but today it is clear that this agreement has shifted only further, it does not appear to be, then [taking into account] what is happening in the advertising market in the world, it is quite logical that if we want to keep a sound press in our own language, we need to support it in order to make up for the fallout and disappearing advertising market in any way. There aren't too many of these measures. I cannot imagine that it would be possible to grant direct payments to the media, so in this sense tax measures are quite reasonable. Unfortunately, after the Minister had said, as was the case at first reading, that this [draft] was linked to the war in Ukraine. Well, of course, everything has to do with it right now. However, as the opposition has been told, in the context of an additional budget, we are only dealing with matters relating to war, in my opinion it has not been reasonable or appropriate for the coalition, in the current context, to put forward these arguments for this draft. I say that on all other occasions, as I said at first reading, it would be very sensible to have a debate. It would make sense to have the Estonian media, in their own language, good and high-quality media. But in this context, I don't think that makes any sense. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, [main] this is also what I referred to at first reading a few weeks ago, that very badly the Isamaa Group wanted to come to Minister Andres Sutt, who wanted to tell us and actually told us about the Estonian Post, or Omniva IPO. But afterwards it is incomprehensible why he wanted to come to our group, because in fact he did not have any answers to any questions. It is likely that Omniva IPO will come to realize that it will come somewhere in the future, and probably Andres Sutt will then no longer be a minister himself and probably, given how long it will take to prepare IPO, this will not happen during the current government. But we know there are two things about Omniva. I haven't understood that in a long time. The Isamaa Group is ready to support Omniva IPO in terms of the parcel business. We really do not see why the Estonian taxpayer should participate in the parcel business. There's no need. So this part could be freely realised right now. But with regard to the delivery of letters and media publications at home, there has been no business or will be in the future. It will always be subsidised, the question is, in what form. If we're talking about this IPO today without divorcing these things, I don't quite know who's supposed to be the buyer and exactly what he's buying. If the law provides for the provision of universal postal services, the distribution of letters and magazines, but the subsidy is made by contract, how will this issue be resolved? There were no answers to these questions. So to say that we are trying terribly to help the media, while at the same time leaving questions in the air, I do not think it makes sense. It would make sense to deal with these issues together if we want to support the Estonian media. And that's what I think we have to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U896	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please. I will also ask you [about the beneficiary's request]. [[Heiki Hepner answers from the floor.]] It's a sure feeling. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U897	Yeah, yeah! Now the chairman can also focus on speech, that is important. Otherwise, it'll pass the ears when it takes time here. Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, If you think about the county papers, it's not easy for them, and there's definitely a problem with home delivery. We remember earlier that if the return fee was to be raised, it would have been very painful for the county papers. On the other hand, however, it is true that the reduction in VAT is generally not a cost for the company. Let us imagine, the Minister also said that indeed, if it were a legal person, it would not be possible to obtain this money by any formula, because legal persons generally agree on the amount to which VAT is added, it will be written in very clearly in the contracts. I believe that a number of natural persons may have noticed or now notice on their own request to see how it has actually been formulated and to challenge it. So it is very optimistic [to believe] that this money will remain entirely for entrepreneurs. But even if it did, it would be problematic for businesses, because it has been forgotten that it is very deplorable if such sums are included in the final price so as to raise the basic cost, i.e. the cost. We know that we have also discussed here ourselves and talked about fuel prices as to why we cannot reduce. Because the level of excise duty is still maintained by fuel sellers. It's always sounded, and we've been very reluctant about it. But now the minister says it's very okay when the newspapers do, the media does. They say it's very good, very right. How, then, could the media in the future, if they have done so themselves, be critical of such practices? I don't understand that. Indeed, I think that our media still wants to follow the words of their actions, not just those of their rulers. True, it would help to make our publications a little less than 4% more affordable, and I am not critical of that. But, unfortunately, it's just one small problem in this wartime budget. The Fatherland has made three amendments relating to VAT, and that is what I really want to talk about. I am not going to focus here on our proposal to reduce the price of traditional energy sources. Gas, electricity, thermal energy, this is all we've been talking about here this evening. The government thinks these prices are very good, you could still rise, people could start saving up. That would be a bit of a cost-saving thing, so we can really cross over. Well, I don't share that. I think that, in the case of our energy, the availability of [means] not only is that a warm room is coming, the light is on in the ceiling, or the gas is running in the pipes, but it must also be affordable for people. And it must not only be affordable for people who are very well-managed, but it must also be affordable for the middle class. Not to mention those whose incomes are low, this is a critically important issue for them. We heard the Minister say that we really need to deal with having more producers, offering more. The Fatherland has proposed that we then consider how we can encourage increased energy production. We came up with a proposal to lower VAT on solar parks, energy storage tanks, heat pumps, chipped wood-granule boiler houses, so that it would be more accessible so that people would have the motivation to help themselves. So we're not just sticking fish on them, we're baiting people to be able, at least in the middle class, to deal with it. However, we do not find this [proposal] in the budget. It'll be pushed off the table and they'll say no, no, it's okay, bear with me. If it's 20 degrees in the room, you can put on two coats and felts, and you can do five degrees. You see, people survived the Leningrad blockade. Well, some of them died, but they usually survived. Wartime, understand. Well, that's not normal. It's not normal. Let's move on to [our] third proposal. We clearly added that wood-fired, wood-wood [price] has also risen about twice, and this is often a very important, considerable cost for people with lower incomes. Since he has now risen twice, we should consider this too. For good reason, these people have asked: " What are we to blame for? In the case of indoor heating, gas, electricity, there is a measure that mitigates [price increases] and pays certain subsidies to low-wage earners during the heating period. What are we to blame for not reaching us at all? Why have we been left out? " There's nothing to answer. They've been left out completely without justification. Indeed, some measures should also be found for them. That is why we have proposed that wood, pellets and briquettes of wood should be subject to lower VAT. But it doesn't work. Put your coats on, put your felts on, that's the spirit! I don't understand. I don't understand that attitude. Honestly, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U898	Thank you. We will proceed with the round of negotiations and ask for Riina Sikkut's speech chair in the Riigikogu. How's your extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U899	I'm a chatty person like Heiki Hepner, and I'll take three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U900	Let's make it eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U901	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been the case here many times today, one speaker covers four drafts. I guess I'm going to get a little out of the subject of this particular VAT exemption, too. And it is true that the additional budget has a clear focus on just getting out of the way, refugees, energy, coping, no one is arguing. I think this is something we would all like to support in this Chamber. However, in the case of this tax exemption [in the case of the draft], I believe that there is one substantive concern and one question of keeping a clear line on tax policy. First of all, let me talk about this tax policy. Indeed, the Reform Party has so far not supported VAT exclusions, rather on the contrary, the preferential rate of VAT on cultural events was abolished and temporarily increased from 5% to 9% during the financial crisis in the case of medicines. The additional cost for the Health Insurance Fund is 2 to 2.5 times the amount of the Gifted Life Fund. We are not talking about the cost of a low-impact health insurance fund here, but about something that can actually buy substantial amounts of medicines or provide healthcare to people. The Reform Party's argument has also been that the VAT exemption does not reduce the price for the consumer, it is not effective, the tax exemption if it does not work, it is not well targeted and it does not allow people with lower incomes to access the service. So, in tax policy, in one case, making such a 4% tax change is actually incomprehensible. Is this measure working only for the press, or is there hope that it will become a new standard and that the 5% VAT discount will also apply to cultural events, medicines in the future? Perhaps this is something that could be negotiated during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. Now, the matter of the matter. Let us say that the Reform Party has changed its mind and found that VAT exemptions are effective. That's great! If the VAT exemption is otherwise an effective measure, then of course it should be implemented, but it must also be asked what objective we want to achieve. Is this the best measure to fight against misinformation in the security crisis? Would it not be more reasonable, more efficient to allocate additional funding to the ETV+ channel? Who is this target group that we really want to deal with? What language and what news do you need? Where is the problem of misinformation or the need to balance Russian propaganda? If we have [choose whether to give] EUR 1.7 million this year and next year EUR 4 million for the channel ETV+ or the press VAT credit in order to help better deliver balanced information to people, I think the VAT exemption would probably not win this competition. It is also as Heiki Hepner and Priit Sibul talked about, such as home delivery. There's a whole bunch of other worries. I myself have been talking about how many stories are behind the tax wall. People tend to consume free stories, free media, and if you think about how to recognise false information, is behind the tax wall, while false information is available free of charge, then this is the situation that we should really change, and the tax change here will not help to achieve a change in substance. There is also talk of tax calm, of non-taxing, in fact, this is now a classic, popular decision that does not help to achieve the stated objective. The question is whether the aim is something else or why this decision was taken. The temporary reduction of special-marked diesel [excise] has also been discussed today. If, from 1 January, the special-marked diesel excise duty rises five times and even further increases are foreseen in the coming years, the question arises as to whether, from 1 January, our farmers are in such a much better position that they can pay five times the excise duty. What will change from 1 January to the fact that such a decision is now justified? The same [measure] is used to divide EUR 30 million. Is this a well-targeted, effective measure? If we have 30 million in the current security situation, is this the way to achieve any result, any person's livelihood improved? If the government really decides that we do not want to be more generous and spend 30 million to improve our livelihood, then really, for example, take children with special needs or particularly heavy target groups and direct this support to them so that it really helps. We are now spending money and, in fact, we will not achieve any impact. The question is why it needs to be done. In general, there are a lot of sensible things in the [additional budget], for example, to ensure defence costs and energy security, but there are also such tar drops inside. This particular draft [VAT exemption] I support in the hope that it will become a new standard. When the government coalition concludes that VAT exemptions are reasonable, they are worth doing, they lower the price for the consumer and allow for meaningful results, they should also apply to medicines and cultural events. I think that this debate must continue as part of the country's budget strategy and next year's budget in this Chamber. Tax policy is, I think, our favourite subject and the change we are discussing is, in itself, very interesting. This means a fundamental change in our current tax policy, a step in the other direction. The question is that if this is reasonable in the current [draft], there are obviously other areas where similar support should be provided. Good luck for all of us in the ensuing discussions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U902	Thank you. Really, there was talk for more than five minutes. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. Would you like some extra time? Yes, you do. But then there's no bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U903	I'd like a bell. Thank you, Mr President, and a good approaching midnight. We're just in the middle of a working day. But we've reached the third part of tetralogy. As an ex-journalist and journalist, my eyes should light up, but they won't. Why? I'll explain. On the one hand, the explanation in [the letter] states that the purpose of the draft is to support "Russia in the [consistent] information war against liberal democracy" and so on, blä-blä. But I have a little longer memory. I'm quoting Mari-Liis Rüütsalu, leader of the Express Group, last year. He says this: "At the beginning of the crisis (the pandemic crisis was at the time, P. E.) we started talking to the state through the Media Union in order to receive support for the media. However, media support from the time of the corona apandemia remained rather modest. " But [they] have not given it up. There was a pandemic at the time, now there's a war. I know this world quite well, of course, consistency has been, so it is an empty word that now, because of war, it needs to be supported. That's not true. Let's keep going. I quote Rein Lang, vice-chairman of the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur. What has Rein said? "How much money would the government have to pay to get their so-called PR department? Several influential journalists have told me that let's not criticize public authority, in which case they will be gentle and give us money. [---] If you go all the time, stretch your hand forward and tell us to give us crumbs, we'll get a little bit better than that, how much must the press give up their freedom against it? [---] Maybe you should be a little more careful with all the money questions?" [So said] Rein Lang, former Minister of Culture, who knows the press quite well. At this point, I must agree with the molecule. I am not going to quote from Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who has also quite crispy characterized journalism, so to speak, quality journalism. [He said] I also have to agree: built on clicks and so on. Or what has my good friend Jürgen Ligi said about the Reform Party as well? He tells of Kalle Muulis, Deputy Editor-in-Chief of Postimees at the time: "Cleanfire as a means does not come to an end. It's destroyed infected motherfuckers and vampire houses. You, Kalle, get caught in the middle of your story. Burning helps when you cannot [... ) wake up and fall asleep without thought [of lowering the Riigikogu] if you do not love your country, but taunt it when all Estonian politics are agile to you, nahui to you and abducted by the mob. " Well, you have to agree. It's been said a little bit, but our relic is allowed everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U904	I will say for a moment that there really was a bit of a quote from this speech chair in the Riigikogu. I'll be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U905	Yeah, yeah, it's Jürgen's. But that's it. I would like to say that these thoughts are not exactly the same among the honourable Reform Party and its influential members. Why am I saying all this? I have come from this world myself and seen it for many years from the inside. And I know, unfortunately, that's quite the way it is. The point is, although I would like to think that [this bill] could be supported, but when I see what a large part of Estonia's press looks like today, it is quite sad. I'd like to read somewhere or hear how things really go in the country, which you know as well or better, but unfortunately, there is no reading or hearing. There are some stories written that are really built on clicks, often in scary Estonian, pulpit, of course not yet. And now you're gonna start supporting this company? Well, I don't agree with that. If it were really about quality journalism[, then it would be different]. Their paper is of high quality and the pictures are beautiful. In the case of the Nelli Journal, I did not understand whether it would benefit from [VAT reduction]. For years, the Nelli Journal, especially when Toomas Leito led it, has been one of the best-informed newspapers, in substance. Is he a tabloid and so on? There's a little girl in there until today. But, well, who wouldn't like to look at such a pretty pint of flesh in a colored picture? So it's going to be like this again. Returning to the bill, I don't think it's a good idea to cut [VAT] right now, and I agree with Rein Lang that I shouldn't. There are more important things that Merry Aart has drawn attention to, and we didn't have a deal, did we? In fact, VAT should be reduced on food products, including many [other] things. I will not name everything here, [what has been done] Poland or Finland or Sweden and so on. The Chamber of Agriculture has repeatedly come up with this. [These measures] would have a greater impact than currently supporting this so-called high-quality press with 5 million. But somehow it still hasn't come out. I think that would have been wise and, in that case, could have supported it. But unfortunately, the choices of the coalition are what they are. On the one hand, for children and pensioners in the autumn, when inflation rages, EUR 50 between jaws, if not politically correct, once. And what's in that tetralogy, as you've seen. And now to support the press. Not a good idea. There are much better ideas you should be doing. The same six-month blue fuel subsidy, half a year, like agriculture or fishing, would end on 31 December. No, it won't. Somehow, the whole tetralogy we've come to part three is quite striking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So, unfortunately, I cannot support this in any way, at least not this part of the tetralogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U906	Thank you. I now ask Kalle Grünthal to speak to the Riigikogu. Please! I'm also gonna ask you as soon as you come this way on your thighstep, if you're gonna have a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U908	Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U909	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister, who, just in case, just went out of the hall! But I also warned him I was going to give a speech. Got it. At present, according to § 105 (4) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, there is an act such as negotiations. I would like these negotiations to receive special attention from the honourable Jüri Ratas and, of course, all the delegates of the Central Party, because here is a very important message for you. Today we have a very interesting draft such as the draft amending the VAT Act. It aims to reduce the VAT rate to 5% and will apply to press publications. The purpose of the amendment, which is specifically written in the draft [in the explanation letter], is to support the availability of Estonian quality journalism in the information war environment in Ukraine. What a beautiful [word]: quality journalism! Several speakers have paid attention to this word here today, but it has not turned out what quality journalism is. I also put a question to the Minister today, just in case: please tell him who is claiming to be a high-quality journalist. Do you expect an answer? No, you didn't. [Minister said] he doesn't have that list with him now, and so on and so forth. How come you don't have a list? We do the bill, we take the funds into account, and we don't know who we're gonna give them to. Ridiculous. Okay, so I went to the following second question: is Estonian Express, Evening Paper, Postimees and Delfi quality journalism? Do you think the answer came? I guess it didn't, at least I didn't know if they were on that list. Or were you? I don't remember. It's been a while since he called. But to get more serious, actually, the same publications that I just listed here aren't one of the quality press publications. Remember, a year ago, even more, a year and four months ago, I dared to open my mouth for the first time and talk about possible vaccine damage. What followed it? The Estonian Express called me. I gave [journalist] hopes that my message would arrive somewhere, an interview of an hour and a half. But when the article came up, I was anti-vaccine, and I was called Coronabant. High-quality literature! Right now we know the vaccines caused damage, we know they caused death and permanent damage to health, but they didn't talk about it. Or the subject of masks that the police raided here and mocked and humiliated people. I sent out an expert report to society, which clearly stated that masks were more damaging than good. Nobody, no press was responding. Yesterday, the "Actual Camera" broadcasts the news that the Technical Surveillance Authority found that masks aren't quite the kind of masks they can intercept all these viruses. The same was true of compensation for vaccine damage. Laughed out, a lame countryman you're talking about. But right now we're in a situation where we've set up a vaccine compensation fund ourselves, even though we were originally ordered to go to court against Pfizer. The problem is that the publications I mentioned here are not high-quality journalism, but are the voice of the government who conveys the ideology of the government. And it would only be so that only words would be restricted, but [no, during the corona period] a situation was created where there was no debate in society. Journalists are responsible for the deaths and remaining health damage of these people. This bill, however, only wants to feed its propaganda machine. I'm having a good day today. I turned from a flatlander to a normal person again. In fact, the Estonian Express wrote today that the world is facing a major initialization. Soon we won't have any real estate or cars, because there's gonna be a big change. I told it at the beginning of this year, and then they just laughed me out. But today it came out, and now I've become a lameman back to being a normal person. Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi German propaganda minister, has said: in order to win a battle in a war, it is necessary to change the thinking of a man's head. If you can get him to think the way it's good for you, spread him over his ideology, disprove the enemy's, and give the wrong information that people believe, then you've won this battle because if you win a battle in a man's head, it'll be much easier to do it on the battlefield. In conclusion, the aim of this draft is merely to keep the government propaganda machine running, and this has absolutely nothing to do with the Ukrainian war. And if you look at what's been going on, it's not a quality magazine. Since we are now in the negotiating phase, I have a request for the Centre Party. You now have the opportunity to reject the government of the Reform Party, which is feeding its ideology and propaganda machine. Please note that when the elections come, you will receive exactly the same as all the other opposition parties. But we need to meet [elections] together, equally, not with the government-funded press working for the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U910	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U911	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U912	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U913	Yes, indeed, the press is a foreign matter enough for me to talk for eight minutes. I'm trying to deal with five. Indeed, it is sometimes interesting to think about how this package of drafts that we have been working on in this Chamber today has ever arisen. How does it work? Was there a sit-down and a discussion, one said A, the other said B, and finally a beautiful package came together, which we are now trying to hit the wall, whether it's good or bad or mediocre or not suitable for anywhere? The real situation in Estonia is going along this path, so today it is possible to read about Pärnu Postimees, for example, how the municipality of Pärnumaa turns off street lighting for a few months. The other way around, of course, maybe it's a white time coming. However, the aim is to save EUR 2 000 to EUR 4 000. This illustrates quite well the current situation that the municipality, which is closest to the citizen, is making quite a desperate effort to somehow remain on the rail. Personally, I am far from the fact that [believe that] Estonian free press is somehow an extension of the government's arm. I don't think that's the case. However, it makes you wonder why this move was made right now, and why was the press in particular given such a fall in VAT? To think that the opposition would have come up with such a bill without any expertise, we would have, I think, heard for quite some time about how we're trying to buy the press. It is very logical that, since this is such a sensitive area, an expert assessment will be carried out on the basis of which proposals will be drawn up. This requires a very broad consensus when we talk about the free press, about quality journalism, and about supporting it. I would remind you that the National Audit Office has carried out quite substantive audits, and one long-standing topic that has been a cross between the private media, the press and the National Audit Office is in the key to what these local government newspapers are. It has often been said that there should be no advertising at all. And now we are saying that we should support the press, with public money or with a reduction in VAT, where advertising is not done. One way or another is a local government that subsidises, like bad and the other way around, when the state goes to help, it's like a good thing. Until then, at one point in time, we are chasing a matchfire before the local elections, that either an elder in the parish or an assistant or a member of a council was an article in the local newspaper, and maybe it was propaganda. That ai-ai-ai, if so, then public money was abused and it is very bad and how can it be so? I'm going to have a lot of questions linking this whole debate or structure together. Indeed, I very much agree that this fall in value added tax does not bring the press closer to people. The tax wall is ahead of many online environments and [VAT exemption] is not helping to take it down. And indeed, the next issue is home delivery, which should be resolved as a whole if we want the written word to be available and up to date across Estonia. Because time is often a problem. Finally, I would like to give another example. There has been a lot of talk here today about performance agencies. When Lottemaa came to Pärnumaa, we very much wished that such a family-centred institution would be treated in the same way as performing institutions. But it was completely out of the question. Lotte and Bruno are businessmen, and there is no connection between family and culture. It's very sad to see how this situation is so jumpy. We should support families, innovation, thinking differently and local culture. I think this is the place of paradigm change, and the expertise must always be downstairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U914	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and we will go to the preparation of the vote on Bill 607. But before Rene's Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we've been moving at a nice pace...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U916	Yes, we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U917	... and I would ask the EKRE Group, on behalf of the Group, to keep this pace moderately, to take a ten-minute break before we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U918	Got it. Let's take a break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U919	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We're at bill 607. Let me remind you that this is also a matter of trust. We are going to hold a final vote. I will put draft 607 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U920	With the result of 58 votes against, 22 abstentions, the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 607 law. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U921	Good fellows! Let's move on to the 11th item here at a nice pace. But there's too much noise in the hall. Please, Madam Minister, this is the Riigikogu's speech chair. There's too much noise in the hall! (Voice of the floor: "No, it is not! ") Yes, it is. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. We are at the 11th item on the agenda: the second reading of draft law 608 on the supplementary budget of the State initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2022, which is also linked to the question of trust. The rapporteur is known today: Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U922	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you for the trust that has been confirmed by today's previous votes. It is important for Estonia to react quickly and precisely to the security crisis, which we have not had a similar one since the restoration of independence. In order for us to be able to do so, we prepared an additional budget with the government and asked Parliament to support the draft needed to strengthen our security. Why do we need an extra budget? I'll give you a few reasons. Firstly, to give certainty in the months we have read that we will be able to cope with the circumstances in which Russia is fighting an energy war, in addition to everything. To finally decouple Estonia from Russia's energy sources, this requires emergency funding, which is guaranteed by the additional budget. Secondly, at a time when Estonia is also one of the targets of cyber attacks by groups associated with the Russian Federation, we would be able to defend ourselves, this calls for the emergency funding provided by the additional budget. Thirdly, so that our people can cope better with the difficult autumn, and this calls for the emergency funding provided by the additional budget. Fourthly, so that we can quickly improve the protection of the population and do so, building on the painful conclusions of the war against Ukraine, this calls for the emergency funding guaranteed by the additional budget. Fifthly, we can cope with the first serious war refugee crisis for Estonia, which requires the emergency funding provided by the additional budget. Good ambassadors! When there was the first debate in Parliament on the additional budget for 20[2]2, I was surprised to hear, among other things, the lines that you are talking about during the war, there is no war. I was wondering if we really had someone talking in May 2022 about no wartime. In the last 84 days, Russia has bombed European cities, hospitals, school homes, maternity homes. The number of deportees exceeds a million, including over 200,000 children. Tens of thousands have been killed. In addition to the devastating war on Ukraine, Russia is conducting a hybrid war against the Western countries as a whole, using energy, cyber attacks and information attacks, and has set itself neither more nor less than the complete transformation of the European security area. I don't think only blind or malicious can see it. We are faced with a raging opponent and everyone who knows and knows our history understands the responsibility and responsibility that the leaders now have. Knowledge of history and an adequate perception of the current crisis obliges us to do whatever is necessary to strengthen our national security. It also obliges you to exclude domestic policy games, make decisions, provide emergency funding. For this reason, good Members, we have presented an additional budget for 2022 with the Government and we have asked Parliament to discuss it more quickly than usual. We received 262 amendments from the EKRE Group, for example, whose only bearing and understandable objective is to prevent Estonia from becoming an important draft law to strengthen security. Why are you doing this? What happens if an additional budget to strengthen security is delayed by the EKRE Obstruction? Estonia cannot move forward with the final release of Russian gas and the creation of LNG capacity in Estonia. Estonia cannot raise the level of cyber security in order to respond to a changed threat. Estonia cannot develop a threat reporting system. Estonia cannot strengthen its ability to save, which can become critical as the crisis escalates. Estonia cannot help the people most in need: recipients of income support. In short, we are much more vulnerable. We can't afford it. Honourable Members of Parliament. On 16 May, the Government of the Republic decided to link the adoption of the additional budget for 2022 with the confidence of the Government. You have before you an additional draft budget that does not solve all the problems facing Estonia, but it provides funding for the most critical security-related needs of this extraordinary time. Dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U923	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U924	Thank you. Minister of Finance! Undoubtedly, the things that are included in the supplementary budget are very necessary. However, the opposition as a whole and your coalition partner have also pointed out that in a crisis like the one we are now in, what is called social cohesion must be taken into account in order for people to be fully motivated and to feel that they are treated equally by the state in this critical moment. But right now, it seems that you have made some choices, you have basically excluded precisely this aspect of social cohesion and how local authorities, how people who work in different areas can cope with both the increase in the cost of living resulting from the war and the additional obligations that our obligation to accept refugees inevitably entails. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In this way, you will not support any of the amendments that address these issues and thus create a government crisis. However, would it not be reasonable, at least in part, to take account of the amendments tabled on this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U925	Thank you. I do not agree with this reproach, such as the municipalities, which, in the current war refugee crisis, no doubt have additional expenditure, would somehow have been excluded from this additional budget. On the contrary. Let me give you an example. This concerns early childhood education. Municipalities have responded very well and are doing very, very important and good work during this crisis. The provision of early childhood education is not financed by the State in normal circumstances, but this additional budget also includes additional support for municipalities, a bounty specifically in the form of the provision of early childhood education. So for local governments, and this is only one example of providing additional support, for example, in the form of covering possible initial needs, is included in this additional budget, and I think it is important that this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U926	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U927	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking in the same way about amendments that were not supported. When we are talking about rapid price increases, the increase in food prices, the need to support farmers, the fact that, in budgetary decisions, we also have to keep an eye on the regional aspect, an increase in school food support would be essential in the current situation, given wage pressure, the increase in input prices, the increase in energy. For a single EUR child, it is no longer possible to provide healthy food of the current quality. However, in view of long-term health objectives, this is a very effective way of using money. In addition to the long-term health effects, there is a regional balance, because food is grown on land, but it is largely eaten in the city, as well as reducing inequalities, because we have children whose only warm meal is in school. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why is raising school food support not even a discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-18_U928	Thank you. As I said in the introduction, the problems that need to be resolved and, as you yourself pointed out, the long-term problems in Estonia are certainly at all. The additional budget does not solve all of them and does not offer solutions to them. This additional budget is targeted and focuses on the most important and most critical, directly security-related needs. This is the focus of this additional budget, and this is how the government has wanted to keep it. If we start putting together plans for the budget for the next four years in late summer and early autumn, if we have a new economic forecast that will hopefully give a slightly clearer picture of what is ahead, it will certainly be possible to return to all these longer-term problems and hold this debate.
