ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 4th working week Tuesday session of the VII plenary session. I now ask for a chair of speech for those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. If you want to hand over any drafts or inquiries, please press the "Speech" button. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The Riigikogu Committee on Finance decided to submit the Riigikogu decision...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U3	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U4	... " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Estonia" draft. The submission of the bill is due to the fact that the mandate of Kaie Kerem, an expert member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, ended early due to his death. On 18 January this year, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank proposed to the Monetary Commission that Ivi Prissi be appointed a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Ivi Proos has provided written confirmation that he meets the requirements laid down in the Eesti Pank Act for a member of the Supervisory Board and has agreed to be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board. Ivi Proos has successfully passed security clearance. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal at its meeting on 7 January this year and decided to submit the corresponding draft to the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U5	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U6	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry is about retreating: it is about retreating from rural areas and retreating from the periphery. More specifically, the Ministry of Education and Research has announced that it is going to distribute extra money to local governments to clean up the school network. However, the trick is that money is not given to preserve schools, but rather to close them, and it concerns upper secondary schools with fewer than 100 students in particular. Inquiries believe that the issue needs to be dealt with more widely than simply by looking at numbers. Attention must also be paid to peripheralisation and the potential decline of settlements when secondary schools are closed down. So where do we fall back? The whole of Estonia cannot move together to county centres with services that have schools or finally to Tallinn and Tartu. Consequently, we have the following questions for the Minister for Education and Research. Why does the Ministry of Education encourage the decline of rural areas and support the closure of smaller upper secondary schools, often located in remote areas, rather than looking for ways to support the survival of the upper secondary school? Is and what analyses are based on this plan? Has the issue been addressed in the Ministry of Education from the point of view of peripheralisation and rural decline? How does the closure of upper secondary school affect the living environment of related areas and the attractiveness of these places when choosing where to live? In addition, we want to know whether the Ministry of Education also has a positive programme in the drawer instead of encouraging closure, such as the launch of a project to support the preservation of magymnasiums and to develop cooperation between small upper secondary schools and state secondary schools in county centres, for example by sharing the burden on teachers or using some of the digital opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U7	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the closure of schools in rural areas is not only a problem for the Ministry of Education and Research, and so on, and since the existence of a school covering all levels in rural areas is far from just a question of teaching activity, it is more broadly a matter of quality of life [of quality of life] that the state can and wants to offer to its citizens, and it should not be strictly a matter of administrative and decision-making competence of the Ministry of Education and Research, and that is because sooner or later these decisions become a problem both in the areas of [Ministry of Finance] administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, we want to deal with this issue more broadly and give the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas an inquiry on exactly the same subject. And we have the following questions. On whose initiative was it decided to provide local authorities with basically public funding for the closure of upper secondary school in rural schools? Has [this happened] only on the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Research, or has this pressure also come from the Ministry of Finance? Does this proposal relate to government plans for cuts and the concept of a balanced state budget? Is this initiative a political decision approved by the government? Then we ask: has there been a broader analysis? Can you get a look at these tests? In this regard, we want the Prime Minister to come here and tell us more about this issue than the vital issue of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U9	I don't see any more calls. I have adopted one draft and two inquiries and, of course, we will decide on further processing in the Management Board in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U10	70 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, we have one item on the agenda today, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on national defence initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 417. Leo Kunnas, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U13	I'm sorry for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz has become very big again in the hall. Please, Leo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U14	We have reached a second reading with the draft amendment of the National Defence Act and other laws. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 September 2021. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I would like to remind you that the main content of this draft was the incorporation of the Penalty Act into the National Defence Act, and some other minor details. The first reading of the draft was on 13 October last year. By the deadline for tabling the amendments, which was 5 p.m. on 3 November 2021, the four of us, Mr Laaneots, Mr Laneman, tabled 15 amendments in total. In the course of the Commission's work, seven amendments were added, which resulted from the redrafting and recasting of the amendments we tabled. But I'll tell you more about that later. As six of the amendments we tabled concerned the amendment of the Defence Union Act, which was part of this package, according to § 19 (2) (6) and § 21 (2) (6) of the Defence Union Act, the central management of the Defence Union and the Board of Elders of the Defence Union must give an opinion on the proposals to amend the Defence Union Act. Therefore, the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, Enn Front Defence League, submitted amendments for opinion to the Chief of the Defence League. The central management of the Defence League and the body of elders gave their opinions on the above-mentioned amendments, and they are available electronically on documents, and I will deal with them a little bit later. I would like to make a protocol comment here to the initiator. With the 112 SE and 417 SE, the initiator had failed to ask for the opinion of the Board of Elders of the Defence League and the central management. The originator should be more careful, and the mistakes we have now corrected here should not be made. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 15 November 2021 and 10 and 18 January 2022 and 7 February 2021. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission of 15 November 2021, Mr. Daimar Liiv, Legal Adviser to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, and Vice-President of the Lawyers' Section of the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly, participated in addition to the representatives of the interest groups involved in the draft. At the meeting, it was noted that the observations on the draft submitted by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities are discussed in the draft Act on Preparedness in the State Chancellery. I would also point out that, in a sense, the current draft is an interim step in the next steps concerning the law on preparedness, which is being prepared at the State Chancellery and the Government of the Republic, and which should come before us in the autumn of this year. Perhaps with this law, there is an even greater plan to consolidate the current laws under one hat and to incorporate the law of emergency and emergency into this law. So that you can understand the context in which we are currently dealing with it. On 18 January 2022, Colonel Eero Rebo, Chief of the General Staff of the Defence League, also took part, so that we can also consider the Defence League to be involved. Margit Gross, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, Marti Magnus, Head of the Department of Defence and Brigadier General Enno Mõts, Head of the General Staff of the Defence Forces took part in this meeting. Margit Gross, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, and Major General Vello-Veiko Palm, Deputy Head of the Defence Forces took part in the meeting on 10 January 2022. At its meeting on 7 February 2022, the National Defence Commission adopted by consensus a draft of a comprehensive list of amendments to the second reading text and an explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. I will now look at the amendments and how they are dealt with in the Commission. I'd take them in the order of importance that I've set for myself. The greatest number of questions and controversy at first reading, both in the large hall and in the public and social media, was the issue of the supply of food for seven days by private individuals. As we have seen a problem in this, Amendment 9, which the four of us did, dealt with this issue. I'll read you the proposal we made one more time. We proposed replacing the definition of'seven days' with the definition of 'three months' and adding the sentence 'necessary food for him and his loved ones' and the term'seed crops'. That was our proposal on the subject. This was supported by the position of the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations. I'm going to read some of the most important parts. "We are concerned, in particular, about the opportunity created by the draft to start disposing of food from home for defence purposes, leaving families only a week's food supply. " In view of the criticisms, we worked with the Commission, and we redrafted it to our amendment number 10, which I will read to you as well. Maybe we got there to take that time definition off at all. We do not, in principle, go after the food supply of a private person, a natural person, because the quantities sent are very small and do not have any effect on the overall result of national defence or on the supply of food to the population. Just as the four of us explained in our amendment, the places from which food can be obtained are from farmers, wholesale operators and retail operators. That is all that can actually be obtained from the amount of food that they can have an impact on the feeding of the population. That's why we redrafted it, added the term "natural person" and left out the definition of seven days. That is what we achieved in the tenth proposal. Now, as far as the issue of seed is concerned, we did not add that here at the moment. The initiator also argued against us to the end. The position of women's associations was this, and I read it out loud: "It would be logical that the law preserves the livelihoods of rural people until the next harvest, as it has been so far, i.e. not only food but also seed, animal feed, etc. should be expropriated. " We would say so much about this that we did not treat it so thoroughly in the Commission, but simply for the sake of historical truth: during the War of Independence, in the winter of 1919, we actually disposed of both the seed and the feed crops, or oats, together with the horses that were requisitioned. In part, we also ate seed because, at the end of the German occupation, the German occupation [the troops] carried grain to Germany and the Red Army occupied some of the country where they were engaged in the predatory economy, then in the winter of 1918 and 1919 we ate some of the seed. It was later replaced in such a way that, with the help of the United States, and partly by buying from other allies, this crop was compensated and the local authorities were distributed back to the people so that they could sow it in spring 1919. That's what happened. It all took place with the local authorities, using the laws of the Tsar. We cannot theoretically rule out that such a situation will not occur in the future, but it is clear that in this case the state must compensate for this seed in order to be able to sow, as was the case in 1919. I would like to mention that the Defence Resources Board, which currently operates it in its central office in Tallinn and Tartu office, would not have any practical capacity to actually carry out something like this. Commands of the militia don't have it for a long time. Perhaps the individual local authorities could theoretically have, but I also have a deep doubt about that at the moment. Such a thing would simply not be practically possible in the current context. Okay. Now I will move on to the next package of amendments, which included six amendments that we have tabled on the Defence Union law. Two of them concerned the fact that the initiator wanted to exclude some of the tasks of the Defence League from the tasks of national defence. The authors of the amendments, we, did not agree with this because the Defence League is a national defence organisation as a whole and its main task is military defence, its support and it also plays an important role in broad defence. So it is not possible to simply say here that these are not national defence tasks, because the Defence League as a whole is a national defence organisation. This approach is supported by the position of the Board of Elders of the Defence League. I quote: "The categorization of transfers poses a threat to their classification as important and minor and may affect the budgetary balance provided for in § 83 of the KalS. " Perhaps this could affect the funding of the Defence League At the same time, we, as the authors of the amendments, offered the Defence League an additional four tasks that the Defence League is already performing in practice today. I'm going to read out the tasks we've offered, what the Defence League is actually doing right now. The Defence League is carrying out land protection. The thing about defense is that the Defence Forces do not bet on the headquarters of the militia; they do not command people there; it is currently operating exclusively on the Defence League. The militias are also all Defence League-based. The Defence Forces basically have two brigades for the army. The Defence League units are practically all defence union-based at the moment, that's the reality we're in right now. Of course, it is not enough to carry out all the tasks of defense, for example, to protect Tallinn. The Defence League wouldn't be able to carry out all the tasks that defense should do. But as I said, de facto it is now, the Defence League is working on it, and the Defence Forces are not doing it in peacetime. Then we also offered to organise the resistance to the violent change of constitutional order and to organise the resistance in the temporarily occupied territories of the country, whatever the Defence League would do. In the same way, he supports the Defence Forces in the formation of military time units, which the Defence League de facto does, and provides and organises military training, which he does. The position of the central management of the Defence League, I also take a quote from here, and I also understand why the position of the central management of the Defence League did not support our position and I will read it out. "The Defence League has no competence to carry out the tasks assigned to the executive. In particular, the Defence League lacks competence to perform the core functions of the State, which clearly includes the execution of the state's military defence and the organisation of military resistance. An organisation based on volunteering cannot be held responsible for the core functions of the state, as voluntary membership is not a permanent structure. However, this organisation can be entrusted with the organisation, teaching and participation of its members in the tasks of national defence. " Perhaps the Defence League is not fully prepared to take on all the defenses, just to speak well. On the way forward, we have reached a compromise in the Commission that we are leaving everything that concerns the law of the Defence League out of here right now. Perhaps, in fact, in the course of [working] the Preparedness Act or after, whether in this composition or in the next, we must return to this issue anyway, how much and who will finally do the defense of the land and where we will accurately record these tasks. It is clear that the interim concept of affordable defence does not work in the current security situation. We have to fix it. Okay. There were then a few questions where the initiator and I did not reach a consensus on the amendments. They concerned the concept of demobilisation, which we wanted to clarify, that demobilisation is the opposite of mobilisation, and we will return everything we have taken from the civil sector to the civilian sector when it is over. Right now, the formula didn't work. The second amendment, which the four of us made and which did not pass, was a matter of processing of personal data. We justified this by the fact that the central register of mobilisation and the register of civil support do not need excessive data, they are not able to process them, they are not a real security authority. In order to carry out these requisitions, they do not need to do anything extra and they cannot actually do it. But it wasn't included right now. There were a number of proposals concerning the formal aspects of this draft and certain formal amendments, all of which were taken into account. Disputes, I would say so, were alive, but we worked towards finding solutions, compromises and consensus with the initiator also on issues where we do not yet have a common understanding and where further work is needed. We fixed them, and we'll go on with them. Then, of course, in coordination with the representatives of the language editor and the initiator, the National Defence Committee also made several linguistic and technical clarifications in the draft. The linguistic and technical specifications included in the text of the draft act and the amendments taken into account by the commission are underlined. Now procedural decisions and proposals. At its meeting on 18 January this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 February of this year. On the proposal of the Riigikogu Board, the debate was raised to the present day. In addition, at the meeting on 18 January this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U15	And colleagues have some questions. Andres Metsoja begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Leo Kunnas, Vice-President of the Commission. My question concerns this amendment, in which you did not find agreement in the Commission: it concerns mobilisation and demobitisation, and vehicles and other property taken into compulsory use in this section. My question also comes as a sign of yesterday's debate in the context of Ukraine, where the situation is difficult. If we try [in advance] to represent an Estonian state in a situation where we have been declared mobilization, then the functioning of the country's economy must actually be ensured on an ongoing basis. However, how has the question been resolved that assets taken into use for security purposes to carry out certain tasks in the country would return to the farmer or builder? How is this solved at this moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U17	That was surprisingly one of the biggest points of argument. What did we request in this amendment by the four members? We tried to formulate this concept there, because the concept of demobilisation also states in the Constitution that the Riigikogu is declaring mobilisation and demobilisation. Of course, the Constitution does not give any definition. We should get this definition as well as possible and exactly in the law. We proposed such a definition: "The compulsory use or expropriation of the property held by the person and the implementation of the obligation to work, the transfer and temporary use of state property, and the authority and person with national defence functions will take up his defence duties in the amount prior to the announcement of the mobilisation. " That is a very logical reason in itself, which we have proposed. The point of dispute that we had with the initiator [was] that, according to the initiator, we may also need a certain number of assets to carry out the demobization ourselves. This is certainly also the right position, but in the course of the debate we tried to explain.ours, the four authors of the amendment, that yes, but the idea of demobization is that everything we have taken from the civil sector, and if the Riigikogu sets some date for which it must have ended, then the property must have all come back by that day, and so it should be written in the expression verb. We had a lively debate on this subject, and the initiator here maintained his view that, in order to keep the demobilisation going and to maintain this possibility, we would use the state's assets there so that such a definition would not come here at the moment. Here was also that we also explained that yes, if, for example, after that, there is still a need to maintain an elevated military readiness and there are certain units that are not yet demobilised, then, of course, the assets taken for these units will remain at their disposal until readiness falls to normal levels. We explained that, but unfortunately it remained so, because we obviously could not justify it enough. I don't really have a good answer, which would happen in practice. Of course, if we can organise mobilisation and come out of this war in such a way that we are in a position to carry out demobization and the situation allows it, then we will probably be able to do so even if we do not have the most precise and best legal definitions. But still, we could have gotten it in here like this, but it didn't happen right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U18	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The issue of food stocks and seed crops was also under very lively discussion. What can be the way forward for this issue to be a good solution for the interests of protecting the population and ensuring life? What are these prospects?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U20	Yeah, I was trying to open this historical precedent here. Indeed, in the winter of 1918 and 1919, we requisitioned and ate some of the seed we gave back. This is the case we've had in history. Do you need it again? It's hard for me to say. The war of the future is such that no prophecy may hold true. As far as the seed is concerned and the feed grain are concerned, it was proposed from the women's associations that, in the course of the Preparedness Act, we should review this text and its approach once more so that all parties can be sure that the matter is regulated as accurately and clearly as possible by law. But, as I mentioned, the Defence Resources Board, in its current form, in the form of its central office in Tallinn and the office of Tartu, would also have no practical capacity to carry out important efforts to provide food to the population if needed in the event of war. Yes, during the War of Independence, it was all through municipalities, or local authorities. I fear that at present most municipalities do not really have the capacity to do something like this, if it really is needed. But in the end, it is still [important], whose necks it falls when people get into trouble and starve, and it inevitably falls on local governments. That's actually the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U21	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U22	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I noticed last spring, probably when this bill kind of started to move, that on Facebook quite a lot of people scared the government's activities and thought that the new government that came into action last year was going to take the SUVs away from people. As a longtime person involved in the Defence Forces, please confirm that requisition is quite the usual thing for war. And maybe you'll also specify that requisition is still possible when mobilisation is announced, not so that the Defence Forces will go home to someone today and take over the SUV, for example. Perhaps you can comment on this issue of requisition a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U23	Yeah. The Office of Defence Resources or the Defence Forces cannot do anything today if we do not have military readiness raised or elevated, we have no declaration of martial law. The first situation in which this can be done is to increase readiness, i.e. when the Government of the Republic decides to raise military readiness to the level of "enhanced" and we here in the Riigikogu confirm this decision. This is the moment from which the Department of Defence Resources can begin to do so. And, of course, during martial law, when martial law and mobilization have been declared, it can be done, the Department of Defence Resources can continue to do so, and the Defence Forces can, in principle, do so directly. These are the conditions when this can be done. This law is indeed not applicable under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U24	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U25	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! My question is also a little bit about this feed and seed. If we make a decision, then there must be knowledge of what will happen next. I very much hope that we will never have a situation like this, but did you discuss what would happen if this really happened? I understand families have seven days of food supply. There's very few people on Earth anyway, maybe they won't be there by then. But what happens to them in seven days, if there is no seed, there will be no new harvest? The way it's done is when it's requisitioned, the animals either have to be killed or go into the woods when it's summer. But did you discuss what would happen if such a situation arose? So, what's the deal? What about those people, whatever happens to the city people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U26	Yeah, that's why we took out that seven-day clause. We now have no time limit in terms of the version that we hope to adopt. The physical person's supply of food cannot, in principle, be carried out for the purposes of the Defence Forces [feeding] or for any other purpose. Not basically. With this, we encourage people to collect their own emergency supplies as much as they can. If we have the capacity of a state as much as it is, the state is known to be rather thin, then people must be encouraged to do things that the state is not capable of doing. What if this situation happens? I have, of course, described it in the red scenario of War 2023 that there is a hypothetical war situation where the availability of food in Tallinn is so low that it goes to standardization up to 300 grams a day, or it is practically eaten. I am still giving the same example of the war on freedom when it actually happened. In the winter of 1918, 1919, we were in a situation where we simply ate some of the seed because there was no food, ate some of the flock. The feed crops were eaten by the horses on the front, and I don't know where they might have taken it. Then it happened. But how was it solved? It was the case that the country intensively sought solutions and applied for help and loans, which resulted, for example, in the United States delivering tens of thousands of tons of grain before sowing time, which was distributed through local authorities to those farmers who had taken the grain from their hands and who had also been robbed by the red ones. That's how it happened back then. Pretty dramatic situation, let's hope it doesn't get so dramatic. But, of course, it cannot be ruled out that, if it really comes down to taking the seed, if the country is to survive, then the country must do everything in the world with much larger crops today, humanitarian aid, all other possibilities, credit facilities, so that farmers can get that fruit back in an orderly fashion if we really get to it. I don't know what better I'm here now, like I can tell you right now. But, of course, it is our duty, both in the Commission and in the large Chamber, to think things through hypothetically, because these laws should include this practice, how things should be and how we want to see them in order to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U27	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U28	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would also like to continue with requisition, not in the context of food, but in the context of assets and vehicles. At the moment, I understand that the listing is ongoing and we are linking this legal space together to what kind of technique we need in certain situations. That's what we're gonna do, we're gonna let the owner know. But I'm going to go with that legal certainty. If we end up with a certain situation, demobilising and we still leave the right to be ready, or actually do not have to give back this technique, then this technique stands somewhere. It's springtime, the farmer needs to sow, but he can't do it. Worse thing is, this technique has been destroyed. How are these solutions in the legal area ensured? Will it be compensated? When or how does this technique finally get back to the owner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U29	Fortunately, in this law, this principle is now fixed that everything must be given back, evenly compensated or reasonably compensated. Fortunately, these principles have been put in place here. But on this very issue of demobitisation, I do not really have a good answer for you, because we have not clearly fixed it here, which we also wanted to do with our amendment. That, yes, demobilisation is the process that ends the mobilisation, and everything we have taken from the civilian sector will be returned to them, and here it would be legal certainty. Of course, if it's not so fixed, then actually we have it, I'm forced to respond honestly, legal certainty of one hundred percent doesn't. We did not just make these proposals; they are purely technical; they are purely substantive proposals; they have nothing to do with the outlook. We did so in conjunction with the delegates of the various groups. These are purely technical questions that really need to be answered. And actually, with the initiator, I asked the initiator, we discussed it, and we didn't get a hundred percent satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U30	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Let's continue with the same subject of demobitisation. My point was that the initiator of this was also seen in the discussions, with a focus on national defence aspects of mobilisation and demobitisation, but in the case of demobitisation, as the prior questioner rightly pointed out, the recovery of the economy is the main focus. In future, would it be useful to involve more people, for example, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and in this field? After this disaster and demobileisation, it is crucial to get the economy back on track.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U32	Yeah. A representative of the Ministry of Defence and a representative of the Defence Forces here clearly defended it quite well from a purely military point of view, I would say. But you rightly pointed out that there is another point of view here, the state and the functioning of the country's economy. What we had to discuss was that yes, just the moment we announce demobitisation, the situation assessment must be adequate and appropriate to the situation. Of course, we cannot declare demobitisation unless we have military preconditions for this; the military situation does not allow us to do so. But, of course, I also pointed out in this same objection that well, are you saying that there is some sort of post-demobilisation after demobization? In this sense, we do not have such a definition. Yes, from the point of view of the country's overall functioning and economy, this issue has not been resolved to the end, and we certainly must return to this concept once again in the Preparedness Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U33	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U34	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I look at these amendments, they have been taken into account in a row and, unfortunately, we cannot put them to the vote in this Chamber either. These proposals, which concerned the tasks of the Defence League, its national defence and defence tasks, its military character and so on, maybe you talk a little about why these proposals and clarifications did not find support?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U35	Yeah. It was a compromise in the sense that we have now decided in the Commission that we are excluding the Defence League at all at the moment, either when we are dealing with the law of preparedness, or when it is done. The position of the central management of the Defence League, I read their position before, is that they are not able to carry out these tasks alone, which is that they will not be able to do so alone, without the involvement of the Defence Forces units, just to do the defense, for example. That was the reason why we have now reached such a compromise that we really need to rethink the whole concept of affordable defence, which does not correspond to the current security situation. But we stuck to it, i.e. the four initiators, I will correct, the four authors of the amendments, that the defence duties of the Defence League cannot be reduced in any way, cannot exclude some tasks. The compromise was, yes, we're not doing it, but we're not adding any new tasks here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U36	Mr. Kunnas, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, has been rejected by the commission and is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The second amendment, which was listed above, has been partially taken into account by the commission. The third amendment, tabled by the National Defence Committee, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fourth amendment, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, was partly taken into account. The fifth amendment, from the Committee on National Defence, has been fully taken into account by the lead committee. The sixth amendment, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The seventh amendment, as listed above, was partially incorporated. The eighth amendment, from the Committee on National Defence, has been fully taken into account. The ninth amendment, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, was partially taken into account by the commission. The tenth amendment, from the Committee on National Defence, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 11, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, has rejected the proposal and is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 12, Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman, Madis Milling, has been rejected by the commission and is not already voted on in accordance with the paragraph above. Amendment 13, tabled by the people listed above, members of the Riigikogu, the commission has been disregarded, and it is not to be voted on because of the paragraph already mentioned. Amendment 14, tabled again in Kunnas, Laaneots, Laneman and Milling, the commission has disregarded, it is not to be voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 15, tabled by Leo Kunnas, Ants Laaneots, Alar Laneman and Madis Milling, has been rejected by the commission and is not to be voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 16, tabled by Mr Kunnas, Mr Laaneots, Mr Laneman and Mr Milling, has not been accepted by the commission, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 17, tabled in the same way by the people already listed, has been rejected by the commission and is not to be voted on. Amendment 18, tabled by the National Defence Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 19, tabled by Mr Kunnas, Mr Laaneots, Mr Laneman and Mr Milling, commission... Mr. Ligi? By accident?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U37	Yeah, it's gonna work for me here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-08_U38	He'll still work if you get an iPad or something. Or you can stomp your fingers or something. I mean, there's no other reason. Yeah, the deep state isn't that deep. So, Amendment 19, tabled by Kunnas, Laaneots, Laneman and Milling, the commission has taken the substance into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on National Defence, fully taken into account. Amendment 21, tabled by Kunnas, Laaneots, Laneman and Milling, taken into account in substance. Amendment 22, tabled by the National Defence Committee, fully taken into account. We have all examined the amendments, and the lead committee has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 417. We're done with second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's proposed agenda has been handled nicely. I would like you to have the strength to work on the committees. I'll see you tomorrow at 12:00 at Question Time. The sitting is adjourned.
