ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's good to be back at work. We can start the Thursday session on the second working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible for ambassadors to submit drafts or questions. Nobody wants to do that. Then we'll do a presence check. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U2	Seventy-four ambassadors registered. We can go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U3	Today we have one item on the agenda, this is draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 466 SE. We are at second reading and the floor will be given by Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act 466 was discussed after the first reading in two sessions, both on 10 and 17 January. On the draft, an amendment was tabled in due time by the Isamaa Group, which seeks to raise the basic pension and the national pension by EUR 20 with retroactive effect from 1 January this year. According to the drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic, both the additional tax exemption and the extraordinary pension increase are at the same time, i.e. from 1 January 2023. The Committee on Social Affairs did not support the proposal put forward by the Isamaa Group. The Association of Estonian Pensioners Association sent its opinion on the draft that the planned pension increase would be as early as 1 April of this year. The Commission made decisions: to propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 19 January, which was yesterday, but since the Riigikogu Board decided to put it on today, it is today, and if the second reading is closed, a final vote will be held, which will be on 26 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U5	Thank you very much. Now we can ask questions. First Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U6	Good manager! Honourable Chairwoman of the Commission. There was also a proposal for amendment to this draft. We know that last year an important law was passed, or the year before, last year it came into force from September, making the second pension pillar voluntary. Thanks to this, a great deal of money was released to the pensioners today. And this release is not from next year, as this bill envisages here, but, as our proposal for a correction states, in fact, much more money will be received from the pension system since October and November of last year. Why do you wish today, with a coalition, our pensioners in such a difficult time as today's energy crisis, to continue to torture a year, not to start with an exceptional increase of 20 euros on 1 January of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U7	Thank you, good Aivar! When we look at society as a whole, we see that there are always agreements in society as a whole. And here too, the Coalition has agreed that both the income tax exemption and the extraordinary pension increase will be from 1 January 2023. And, according to this agreement, we are also dealing with this today, and the Commission has taken a decision on this basis. As long as there is no other agreement, I think the majority of the Riigikogu will see no reason to change it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U8	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I guess this decision is confusing, especially when we look at today's energy crisis and at the opportunities for our pensioners to cope with this situation. But you also indicated that politics is like making agreements. Would it be possible, then, to name those who did not want a solution to make it a little easier for our pensioners this year, and that there should not be a debate in this Chamber about how to support, whether to support, how to support? Perhaps this would also help the coalition to finally reach a consensus more easily? Maybe we could find out those names.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U10	Thank you, good Hepner! Looking now at the different procedures that have been carried out in the Commission, there was no direct roll-call vote in the Commission, but these proportions were clearly as I referred to in my previous reply. These ambassadors, who are members of the coalition, voted in the same way, and those who were in opposition voted differently. I think this principle is, like, very clear. As I said before, there must be an agreement. There's no other deal today. I think it is right that it is based on what is real and what is real today. And if there is a real opportunity to give on 1 January 2023, then I personally voted on it. It's still better, I think, with the sparrow in hand than when it happens there's nothing. If we look today at the debate on rising prices for electricity, gas and heating, it is not just a matter for pensioners, but it is a matter for very many vulnerable families and individuals. And we can see that today the government has been searching for solutions for several days. I hope the solutions come along.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U11	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am absolutely convinced that the Committee on Social Affairs has made an effort on behalf of pensioners so that, even if you don't have a belly button, things can get better. As the draft also talks about the additional application of income tax exemption, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs have explained that this cannot be done. This requires the necessary technical amendments which require time. My question is that, since you are certainly fighting for pensioners in that committee, please describe in detail the technical changes that need to be implemented in advance and, behind each technical change, please also indicate its timetable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U13	Thank you. As far as this draft is concerned, the present draft still concerns, in particular, the extraordinary increase in pension, which is from 1 January 2023. However, since they are spoken together in parallel, and were also discussed together in the Committee on Social Affairs, no one in the Committee on Social Affairs asked what was so detailed that by what date something was technically done, but it was simply made very clear that technical changes needed to be made in order for the tax exemption to have to be made and mainly related to the Tax and Customs Board, and that, therefore, before the end of 2022, as these technical solutions are not available today, there is no possibility of doing this tax exemption earlier. This was the answer given to us by the officials in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U14	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After all, we had a representative of the Pensioners' Associations at the meeting where this bill was discussed, and he also made it very clear that this aid, even in the form of EUR 20, needed to be immediately received, that pensioners were in a very difficult situation. And now you're talking about a deal here, but actually, let's be honest, and let's call things right. You have pushed this pension rise to 2023 because then there are Riigikogu elections, so it would be a good election campaign and a good promotional event. But my question is that you have not stated exactly who voted how, that you have not said it out loud, that please explain whether the coalition ambassadors were against it or in favour of raising this pension increase to 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U16	Thank you. As far as the Alliance of Pensioners' Associations is concerned, as I have pointed out in my presentation, I said that we had them, expressed their opinion and had them, and their proposal was that it could be from 1 April at all, not from 1 January, as was the proposal of the Fatherland, but from 1 April. So there are also very clearly different opinions in society when it could then be. As far as the vote is concerned, coalition ambassadors were, I think, in their vote in accordance with the agreement reached in the coalition agreement, and that means that then the extraordinary pension increase, as I have already referred to earlier, which has been tabled today as an amendment, not as an amendment, but as a draft, is from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U17	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U18	Good manager! President-in-Office of the Commission. I understand the Central Party has withdrawn its election pledge. The electoral promise was exceptional in terms of raising pensions of at least EUR 100. While in the previous coalition the desire of the Fatherland to make the second pension pillar voluntary was very clear, one reason was that today's pensioners would be able to get a decent pension and better manage today's economic crisis. You're talking about most of the coalition. Has the Centre Party given up supporting pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U19	Good Aivar! The electoral platform of the Centre Party stated precisely that we are seeing an extraordinary pension increase with an indexation of EUR 100. And now if we look back to the previous government, where the Fatherland was, and look at today's government, then we have fulfilled it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U20	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Your performances in general I understand that you are a highly empathetic person who supports pensioners and generally supports minorities. And since you are also chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I would be very interested to know how you feel about yourself being pushed to 2023. Would you personally support the fact that pensioners will receive this rise sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U22	Thank you, good Riho! I think that if a coalition agreement was made and had known at that point that major crises were coming, I think that maybe this decision would be different. Today, however, the situation is that we will see that the extraordinary pension increase is really next year, from 1 January 2023. However, this does not mean that pensioners will receive nothing this year. From 1 April, normal indexation will take place. And when I said here at first reading that it is about EUR 38, it has actually been supplemented and it is bigger, it stays there at EUR 42-43. Then, from October onwards, pensioners living alone will receive support, and if it was before EUR 115, they will now receive EUR 200. Then, as of 1 January 2023, there are two things. Firstly, the exceptional pension increase is in the base part of EUR 20 and the tax exemption. And from 1 April 2023, the pensioner will be added to the pension by indexation. This means that, from this point of time to a year, for example until 1 April 2023, together with an extraordinary increase in pensions and indexation to pensioners, there will already be more than EUR 100. The question is, is this all supposed to be today, but no indexations can be predicted either. And we've had everything settled by law before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U24	Good manager! Good Siret! The proposal was in favour of an alliance of pensioners so that it could be made in April at the same time, but the government coalition still imposed that January. Does this mean that it was still the hypothesis that the purpose of this thing was to show before the elections how noble the coalition is? It would be too late after April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U25	Thank you. As I said in my previous reply, in fact, over the whole year, there will be additional money for pensioners, whether in fact by indexation, as an individual pension business grant, as an exemption from income tax, as an extraordinary pension increase. Several subsidies, indexations and extraordinary increases are coming here for a whole year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U26	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There were a number of misleading claims, I would like to correct them. Did the Alliance of Pensioners' Associations at the Commission's meeting really propose that the pension increase be postponed from 1 January to 1 April? I find this very difficult to believe, I would ask for a precise quote from the Commission's protocol. Secondly, the question I have is that you referred to the fact that you have not, in fact, promised an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 100 separately, but with indexation. In fact, the Centre Party's "Estonian for All" programme promised a 100-euro pension increase by 2020, with an indexation that you have not fulfilled, and it is even more incomprehensible to postpone the extraordinary pension increase from 2022. And I am not talking about those promises of the Centre Party that you did not want to realise, such as the introduction of a widow's pension in your programme, the release of a visit fee for the elderly, and so on and so forth, page by page. Why has the Centre Party reneged on this promise, including the agreement in the previous coalition that the money released from the second pillar remains in the pension system, going on, I would emphasise that it is precisely an extraordinary increase in pension? The chair can confirm what I said. Right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U28	Thank you, good Urmas! I've always appreciated you as a demagogue master, super! I'm just reading, you wanted a quote from the protocol. In fact, the Association of Pensioners also sent an official letter and it is available on the Riigikogu website. But I'm reading the place from the protocol right now because that's what you wanted. "Andres Ergma introduced the position of the Association of Estonian Pensioners. It was noted that the draft law could already be implemented from 1 April 2022. " I said, I have always said that the Pensioners' Association wanted from 1 April, but the Isamaa Group wanted from 1 January. These are different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U29	Urmas! Urmas, this is not how we hold this debate. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! To tell you the truth, I am extremely embarrassed and it is extremely embarrassing for all of us in this Chamber to listen to these lame explanations, which give no explanation at all, but you are only talking about an agreement. And you're saying that you would have known in the coalition agreement that we were going to have a crisis like this, perhaps you would have decided otherwise. Hey! In this draft, pensioners have made proposals to do this this year, we have talked about it, the Isamaa has put forward a written proposal to do it this year. If you had any desire, you would have been able to meet our people and, in particular, pensioners in the current crisis, where they do not know how to survive. Could've helped. That's all I'm asking, I'm asking, are you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U31	Good Henn Põllamas! I've had many moments in my life where you've been here in the great hall of the Riigikogu and giving speeches, it's been awkward how you've talked. It was also embarrassing to hear you speak now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U32	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Estonian pensioners are indeed some of the poorest in the world, and we are there behind China and South Korea sharing together at the end of the triplets. I think this situation deserves a political statement. This week there have been two of them, well, the third could come, and maybe it doesn't really fit now in January, but if the Alliance of Retirement says that in April this increase could be, we're ready, I think, in Fatherland to seriously consider it. You have pointed out, as if, that this year, pensioners are going to get too much money at the same time and they are not going to do anything about it, or what is the problem, where should we look for a solution, because we want to reach out to five richer countries and really help pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U34	Thank you, good Andres! I don't have any fears you've been trying to sow here. As far as the five richest countries are concerned, it was a slogan from another party, I think, in 2007 or something. As far as the rise of pensioners is concerned, if we take back time and look at the timeline at all, then, in fact, no extraordinary pension increases have actually been in the country only in principle, we are talking extraordinaryly, not indexations, when the Centre Party has been in the government. One of the biggest jumps, as well as the extraordinary rise in pension, I recall, was in 2005-2007. And then, when Jüri Ratas came, the Centre Party was in Kaja Kallas's government. It is not, in fact, that the Fatherland, if we speak quite honestly or in Res Publica's time, has stood very hard for the extraordinary rise of pensioners. Yeah, I'm not! If we look historically at statistics, I think we are seeing it very clearly. These extraordinary pension increases have been delayed when the Centre Party has been ready to help. [[The comrades from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U35	Urmas, please, let's stick to order! Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of my question, I congratulated you, rather, on the Social Committee, which you are in charge of, saying that you will certainly make an effort on behalf of the pensioners to get the belly button out of place. Unfortunately, in this praise, the first cracks were created by your answer when I asked what these technical changes were and what the timetable was, why this pension increase could not be done sooner, you said that the Commission did not discuss it. Further answers were followed only by this government coalition has so decided that the rise will come on January 1, 2023, i.e. this increase, the pension increase that the pensioners really need, will only be done to capture the votes of the voters before the elections of the Riigikogu. This is shameful, by you, Siret Pihelgas, and I think that such statements should not come to this Riigikogu. There's no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U37	Thank you. Good Kalle, I haven't changed my last name. I'm still Siret Eagle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U38	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good Siret Eagle! We in the Committee on Social Affairs, this representative of the Alliance of Pensioners, made it very clear that, at the moment, pensioners are in a very difficult situation, especially given the rise in electricity prices, and even this small increase in pensions would be very, very helpful to them. While you were saying here that the amendment to the draft had been tabled by 1 January, but the Alliance of Retirement wanted in April, we did not really have a substantive debate about what date would be real. The coalition ambassadors and you yourself were very rigid to 2023 and that's it. The consultation did not take place in order to be able to plan it at all, for example, for 2022. There was no real interest in helping pensioners. Am I right, or do I really remember this trial wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U40	Thank you, good Kert! We had two proposals in very specific terms. One was the draft, which was January 1, 2023, which we discussed, and the other was the proposal of the Fatherland, which was then from January 1, 2022. A debate took place and a vote was taken afterwards. As for the Alliance of Pensioners, they gave an opinion. No political group or member of the Riigikogu presented their opinion in the committee as an amendment so that we could vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U41	Not a day. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U42	Yeah. I must apologize to Siret Eagle for giving birth to her by the name of Siret Pihelgas. The point is that Siret Pihelgas, on the list of sots, is the mayor of Paide, who makes the same absurd decisions as you are reporting now, Siret Kotka. So I'm sorry for the wrong name, it looks like the Sirets are all the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U43	Okay, we've got it figured out. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In my professional work, I often encounter symbols and shapes. Maybe you're so kind as to explain in this context the image "the darkest sparrow in the hand." What's that supposed to mean for your pensioner now? Or what do you mean by that? Is it possible to use a design for an exhibition that is rather thin in the hand, or?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U45	Luckily, I didn't use that other expression. But what I want to say is that it was very clear: that the 20 euro should come from 1 January 2023 is much more secure at the moment, and there is a majority, a public agreement, than that it should have come from January 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U46	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U47	Good manager! Good Siret! I do not remember this protocol, but remind us that were there ladies and gentlemen from the coalition, Hele Everau, Luck Pillak, Toomas Järveoja, Marika Tuus, Viktor Vassiliev, who were actively involved in the debate and what they were saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U48	Thank you. You took part in the debate very clearly. I can tell you right here who asked. Speaking of speakers, it was me. It was Priit Sibul who asked about the pension increase and introduced his proposal. Then there was Helmen Kütt, who spoke about the rapid rise in prices and how important it is to help pensioners now. Then there was Marika Tuus-Laul, who asked about the indexation of pensioners in April that it could be what size. There was also the questioner, Kert Kingo, who also pointed out that the purpose of the extraordinary pension increase was to help older people feel financially secure and asked whether there was an annual indexation of pensions. And then Helmen Kütt wanted to clarify how both the increase in the base and the planned tax exemption for the average pension were planned from 1 January 2023 and whether, in addition, the indexation of pensions would take place from 1 April 2023. Yes, many people here asked clearly about the rise in pensions, about indexation, and, as I pointed out earlier, Mr Hillak also asked about the tax exemption, so the discussion was very clearly between the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U49	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand it's pretty difficult for you to be in that coalition, because squirrels always have that when they're at the pump, they treat it all as their own personal money, and maybe that's what delaying the pension increase is to maintain the good that it was, the balance we have, the structural. But now from this structural balance, I'm asking. Do you also have any calculations that now, during this year, how many pensioners as they leave, who should not be paid the pension increase, who will miss it, and how many will be on top of the new ones? Perhaps it is done with good intentions that we wait for the next pensioners to join them. And just to clarify history: I also remember a seven-euro rise, I think it was 2019. Well, it's always worth mentioning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U51	Just numerically, from 1 January 2023, when we are talking about an extraordinary pension increase, this means that the total cost would be EUR 81 million. This concerns 321000 pensioners. And that would also concern national pension, the basic part of the national pension, which concerns 3,200 people, will also increase. And that means it's 0.8 million more out of our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U52	There's been another procedure. Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The procedure for conducting the sitting. In my opinion, the President of the sitting cannot remain silent when misleading claims are made, but must draw the rapporteur's attention to it. Here the statement was that the Fatherland has done nothing and has not initiated ideas to support the elderly. On the proposal of the Fatherland, the maternity pension system was established in Estonia; on the proposal of the Fatherland, a support measure for a pensioner living alone in Estonia was established. On the proposal of the Fatherland, a law was adopted in this Chamber to support the repressed, giving support to the repressed elderly. On the proposal of the Fatherland, the reform of the national pension system was adopted here, which made the calculation of the annual coefficients more fair, and on the proposal of the Fatherland, it was the government of Andrus Ansip that introduced for the first time that the average pension was exempt from income tax. Mr President, I would ask that these previous statements be corrected by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U54	Thank you. However, I cannot intervene in this debate; it is not the task of the President of the sitting, but we have a second reading which will enable all the ambassadors to make a speech. And that was now a place of speech, actually. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good to see you back in good health! Good Siret! We in the Commission, as you pointed out, discussed how pensions could be paid one year earlier than the government's bill provides. And there was indeed an amendment to this in Fatherland, which was then supported by me, by Fatherland, the EKRE ambassadors and the representative of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Küttt. And it was not supported by the ambassadors of the Reform Party and the Central Party. And then after that vote, no matter how long or less we discussed it, it is irrelevant, what matters is what the result is. The result is that it was not supported by the votes of the Centre Party and the Reform Party. And I heard an interesting line that you said after this vote that it was a very difficult conscience for some. For what reason, for whom and who had the most difficult conscience after this vote? I can say that it was very easy for me, I dare say that both Helmen and the EKRE ambassadors did the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U56	Thank you. First of all, in response to Urmas, I did not talk about the support of the repressed, I was talking about an extraordinary pension increase. An extraordinary pension increase which will then be placed in the base section. And the fact that extraordinary pension increases have taken place very clearly when there has been a Central Party in the government. So I understand that they want to dilute water, but we should look at reality. As far as this vote is concerned, I think that, if you look at the situation we have here today regarding the rise in electricity prices and the rise in heating and gas, I do not think there is a member of the Riigikogu today who would say that we support all people right now. But some people who have to vote have agreements and I think that agreements must also be respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U57	Urmas Reinsalu is back to procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U58	Thank you, President of the sitting. I would ask the President of the sitting to be guided by § 72 (1) and (11) of the Rules of Procedure Act. It seems to me that this statement now corresponds to the circumstances that I referred to earlier regarding the claim that the Fatherland has not stood up for pensioners. I would ask the President of the sitting to read this binding provision, § 78 (1), to the Members now, and also to reflect it in his comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U59	78? [[The floor shall be specified.]] 72. The President's powers in conducting the discussion on the agenda. If the presentation, statement or question extends beyond the prescribed period, the President shall request that the report, the statement or the question be closed. If the rapporteur, speaker or questioner deviates from the agenda, the President shall request that the matter be referred back to the agenda. If the President's request is not met, the release of the report, the statement or the question shall be interrupted. " And now the primate is: "If the waitress, speaker or questioner uses inappropriate expressions, the President of the sitting will make a comment to him. If the President's remark is disregarded, the President shall interrupt the removal of the report, the statement or the question from the microphone. " It seems to me, however, that there was no such situation, but we are wiser again. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U60	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have found here that both of us are a little embarrassed about each other, but seriously speaking of this bill, I am deeply sorry that we are not helping our pensioners now and, in fact, when we talk to the people of your party, I understand that you do not support it, either, that it is obviously imposed by the Reform Party. Why don't you describe to me a little bit about how it went like this, because I know that you are not happy about it either, and in fact we still have the opportunity to change it here and vote on the amendments and to change that date here? I'd like a little clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U61	Look, the votes in committee, as in the Committee on Social Affairs, I think that it is the same in other committees that the amendment is put to the vote, that the ambassadors show their will, that they express their will, that they support or do not support or participate in the vote or that they are neutral, and that after that, the votes are counted. This was also the case in the Committee on Social Affairs, which is today in this Chamber, yes, today is the second reading. I understand that the Isamaa Group has the opportunity to put this amendment to a vote in this large Chamber, that is their right, and if they so wish, they can do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U62	Let's proceed with the procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U63	Thank you. The President of the sitting failed to quote § 78 one prima, which I draw attention to, in fact, obliges, here is not given as a right, but as an obligation to the President of the sitting in a situation where the rapporteur uses inappropriate expressions, it is the duty of the President of the sitting to make a comment. And obviously there is hardly a person in this room who thinks it was appropriate to claim that the Fatherland has not stood up for pensioners and the elderly. I read about the fundamental reforms, all the major fundamental positive reforms that have taken place in our pension system in this century, have actually taken place in the transport of the Fatherland. The Fatherland does not make words but acts, and therefore this remark was both substantively and in its style misleading, and it is therefore appropriate that the President of the sitting comply with this obligation in § 78 (1) Prim to make a note to the rapporteur on the basis of § 72 (1) Prim to make a remark to the rapporteur, as it runs counter to the mandate of the rapporteur of the steering committee laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U64	I disagree. I read it first. I will read it again to the first half: "If the waitress, speaker or questioner uses inappropriate expressions (and then comes in a specific form of speech, M. H.), the President of the sitting shall make a remark to him. " Now, inappropriate expressions are not that we have a political debate, where one says you didn't do enough, and the other says that we have done more than enough, but inappropriate expressions are when an envoy shows the middle finger to a waitress or lets off a bang or something like that. Now, these are inappropriate according to my understanding. What you want to do is a political debate, and I'm asking you to sign up for negotiations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U65	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. As a result of the pension reform, a lot of money will be released. Maybe the money that the country previously paid 4% of its people to the second pillar, then the people who left the second pillar, the 4% after that, began to come in the form of social funds from the State Social Fund, with a view to paying it out for pensions. According to the law, this money cannot be paid for anything else; it cannot be used for anything else. My question is: in 2022, how much money is now coming out of the second pension pillar to pay pensions through social tax, how much is it? And since pensions don't rise, why does the government use this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U66	Thank you. All I can say here is that the Social Affairs Committee did not address this issue. No one asked directly how much it was. They just asked where the money was going. This was answered by the fact that the additional social tax received would be used to finance pensions and that 4% would be paid to the public pension insurance budget. As you have already pointed out in your own question. How much is it, no one in the Commission asked for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U67	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U68	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! There has been talk in this hall about the self-denial work of the Centre Party on the rise in pensions. Maybe I'd ask you the way we see today that the cost of living is rising. We see that inflation rates were 12% last year, which is probably going to be even higher this year. The price increases will get us all thanks to the energy carriers. Why now, at this point, in this hall today, does the Centre Party not take its feet out of the belly to actually go to help the pensioners? That's what we need today, now and now. When we talk about energy prices, we talk about support for everyone and self-denial work with a coalition partner, but this weakest group, together with South Korea and China, must figure out our pensioners. After all, we are at risk of being the last in the end if we do not take these important steps. Why don't we do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U69	Thank you. As far as the cost of living is concerned, that is the annual indexation and it will take place from 1 April. As far as the energy market is concerned today and this anomaly is concerned, there are different subsidies. And I hope that these support measures will be sufficient today to help the pensioner? That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U70	Let's proceed with the procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U71	Yes, there is a definition of inappropriateness in the practice of the Supreme Court and its definition. This is based on us, the President of the sitting, you can read the paragraph of § 1046 of the Law of Obligations Act, which speaks of an inappropriate value assessment. And the question is whether this value assessment in the context of § 1046 of the Law of Obligations Act, which embodis the concept of inappropriateness within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act, has actually, or has not taken place. In my opinion, this took place because it is the Fatherland that has proposed exceptional increases in pensions from the beginning of this year, and this is blocked by the rapporteur's statement that the Fatherland does not stand up for older people. The situation has turned from an absurd situation to a head. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Put it in the right form, evaluate it as is the law of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Law of Obligations Act and the practice of the Supreme Court. I am not going to quote these Supreme Court rulings on inappropriate claims in the interests of time savings, so that we can be clear in this situation and can apply § 78 one of the Primis remarks to the waitress, which may also discourage the representatives of the coalition, above all from voting against the proposals made by the Centre Party to raise pensions exceptionally from the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U72	I think that the law of the law of debt is not as appropriate as the places that talk about the indemnities of the Riigikogu Ambassador. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Given all the pros, the minus comes together, the greater aim is to listen to these questions and answers, why can't you put money in advance to pensioners, then the main aim is not to pay that money out. And my question is perhaps the idea that a long time ago, if the state does not want to help pensioners immediately, but to postpone it for an indefinite period of time, did the Commission also have a debate in preparation for the first reading, so that, for example, the retirement age of a couple of years could perhaps be raised, so that we could also get rid of some target group, so that new pensioners would not come along and the money would be left with more for the structural balance of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U74	Good Tarmo! The Social Affairs Committee did not discuss raising the retirement age at these meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U75	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U76	Thank you. It was a somewhat surprising answer that you answered my question that, on such an important subject, the Commission did not discuss at all and you do not know how much money from the Social Fund is being released, which by law should be included in the payment of pensions. I am honestly surprised and amazed to say that you do not know this number and that it is not discussed at all in the Commission. But as we all know, the pension fund has been in deficit for a long time, i.e. the state budget has been paid off. Well, here's the logical conclusion that perhaps one money was replaced by another, money was released from pensions in the state budget and spent for other purposes. I ask whether the Centre Party will really accept this and whether you were not interested in it as a party. Basically, so far, you take away the money paid from the state budget for pensions, you spend it for other purposes, and then you talk about how pensions are small and how we should all be jointly concerned about the increase in pensions. Is that really so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U77	Thank you. I stress that I understand that there has been an attack on a party like one, and there is talk of how the Fatherland is like an embodiment of purity. I don't think so. Historically, extraordinary pension increases have still been very clear when the Centre Party has been in government. Yes, exceptional pension increases have not been annual, but they have been made according to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U78	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Now, if you look at the round of questions and answers, your answers are exceptionally laconical, figuratively speaking, that we did not discuss this in the Commission and that is the point. But really, today's situation is where the money that comes from the reform of the second pension pillar to raise pensions is put on a shelf and left to chew inflation and then told against the pensioners that you chew something else, because we have the advantage of keeping this money on the shelf. Indeed, in that sense, the situation is rather strange and strange. But my question: why did you not turn this issue into a debate in the Commission at all and try to find some other compromise with your coalition partner? Why did you so coldly accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U80	Thank you. Good Hepner! No one in the coalition or in the Commission discusses matters coldly. I think that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs are very heartily discussing various problems and trying to find solutions. Today's solution, which is, is that the extraordinary pension increase will be from 1 January 2023. I would also like to stress that, from 1 April, indexation will take place and from October, the extraordinary increase in pensions for pensioners living alone will come from EUR 115 to EUR 200. So, yes, we have to look at today, when we look at the moment, the pensioners, I think, also, are asking for support on the energy crisis and on the less insured, which is this compensation measure, and I think they will get something from there, but this EUR 20 pension increase, so that it can now be implemented immediately, yes, it seems sympathetic. I'm telling you the truth, it seems nice, but as I said at the beginning, the majority agreement is different now, it's 1 January 2023. And that is also what I and the majority of the members of the Commission discussed in the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U81	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U82	Good Siret! Here was a keen debate now on whether or not the Fatherland has supported pensioners. Let's remind you. At the turn of the century Mart Laar was Prime Minister, one year pensions were raised one euro and the next 12 euros. We remember these things when the pensioners were on Toompea, very sharp meetings. That's what Laar said, we'll lower pensions if we have to. I remember when the third pillar reform was carried out, the Centre Party, under the leadership of Siiri Oviir, was strongly opposed to the second pillar's money being taken from the first pillar, i.e. the pensioners at that time, and therefore the pension was small. And those decisions were made at the time of the Laari Triple Union. Yes, indeed, Mr. Seeder did not support it, but he was not the decision-maker. And these things have been done a lot. So we can give more examples here, but there is no time for this question. Do you think these figures from history say that they have been by pensioners or not, what do these examples show?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U83	Thank you. I think good, Marika, when you asked your question, you didn't mean the euro, you meant the crown. That the Fatherland raised one crown and 12 crowns while they were in government. As I said in my previous presentation, extraordinary pension increases have been made since the Central Party has been in government. This has not happened when the Fatherland has been predominantly in government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U84	Urmas Reinsalu, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U85	Thank you, dear waitress. My question is that you are saying here that it is not necessary to raise the pension this year, that there is no need for it, because it is also covered in the energy crisis by the fact that pensioners receive it in a fucked-up system, people have to start asking for support and that is the solution. But in this scheme, which the Centre Party pushed through, all working pensioners have been disregarded. If a pensioner is working, he or she will receive an additional income, he or she will get over it... In fact, a large number of working pensioners have expressed dissatisfaction about this. Why did the Centre Party push through a scheme where employees' pensioners are excluded from the allowance? And secondly, I would like to remind you that putting the matter in the right perspective for Marika is that in the previous coalition we agreed to make this pension increase from 1 January 2022, and that was our joint agreement at the time in the coalition, but somehow you rejected it, probably not under the pressure of yourself, but of the coalition partner, and you postponed this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U86	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U87	Is this agreement in the interests of pensioners? Which arrangement...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U88	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U89	... was more retired in the interests of either the previous or this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U90	Thank you. As far as pensions and pensions in Estonia are concerned, and when we compare them with other countries, they are small and, frankly, I think that, when it comes to extraordinary pension increases, it should generally be that, regardless of who is in government, it is the Centre Party, or that is the Fatherland, it should be an annual extraordinary pension increase, so that our pensioners' pensions even catch up with the European average.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U91	Urmas! Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. When you presented the Commission's minutes, you left an important issue aside, an issue concerning technical capabilities. A clear response came from the Social Insurance Board that the rise in the extraordinary base does not require any time; it does not require any IT solution; it can be done immediately. Didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U93	Thank you. I did not deal with the way you asked the question now, I was talking about pension income tax exemption and technical capacity, and I made a link there. I did not really point out that, as you asked in your question, an extraordinary pension increase would require technical capacity. Of course it doesn't. Requires income tax exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U94	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U95	Yes, it would have been enough if you had said that it was, because it was actually so in the Commission that it was asked whether this would require an additional opportunity. Now I have a question about this. You spoke very nicely at the beginning about agreements, their importance and coalition agreements, so that you would have known that at the time we agreed that it would get so bad, perhaps you would have made another agreement. I have a question now. At the moment these drafts were in the process and the amendments and the pensioner's letter had come, this was a bad situation. Did you, because in two readings we really had this preparation for a second reading, as chairman of the committee in the group, discuss this issue, or did you address the coalition partner to reconsider this agreement? This would certainly have eased the lives of a very, very large number of people, and all the more so if such a large lobbyist as the Alliance of Pensioners pointed out this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U96	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Centre Party at its group meetings is dealing with the situation of pensioners and their livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U97	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U98	Thank you. I am not a member of the Social Affairs Committee, and that is why I do not know exactly what was said there, but I am listening to this debate here. I'm just asking you a very fundamental question, so why don't you explain why it's good that this extraordinary pension increase comes in 2023 and not sooner? We in the Riigikogu are actually here to make quick decisions and think about people, to have as much as possible, their well-being as possible and to make it as easy as possible for them to live. Why this pension increase was still postponed by 2023, it is extraordinary that our current inflation rate is so rapid, and by then it has lost 20 euros of any value that it would actually have been like a year earlier. As the state budget funds are now available, we have heard all the time how the state budget is being filled with mush and with a great deal of momentum. Why was it still pushed to 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U99	Thank you. When we talk about the annual indexation of pensions, we have it in the law. However, when we are talking about an extraordinary pension increase, which we have not had on an annual basis, it is clearly a political agreement on when it will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U100	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. All ambassadors can take the floor if they wish, and the first to come is Kersti Sarapuu of the Central Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U101	President-in-Office of the Council. Good guys in the hall! This last hour has now been a very hot debate, there were a lot of questions, and Siret certainly gave a lot of answers about what was not really at all in the debate in the Commission. Of course, we would be happy if we could raise pensions in exceptional circumstances every year and our pensioners feel safe, but unfortunately life has been different. To begin with, I would like to recall that in 2016 the average old-age pension in Estonia was less than 400 euros. I can't believe it, but it was. As the Centre Party began to shoulder its responsibility, it was a clear goal of the Centre Party to improve the livelihood of the elderly at a faster pace. In addition to the annual indexation, the Centre Party has advocated an extraordinary rise in old-age pensions. This draft will bring about an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 20 from 1 January 2023. It should be added that this is the third extraordinary pension increase in the last four years. Thus, the income of a 44-year-old pensioner is projected to rise to 611 euros. The aim of the emergency pension increase is to reduce poverty and improve their livelihood and well-being among the elderly. Estonian pensions are significantly behind those in Europe, and many of the pensioners here live at risk of poverty, especially those living alone. The dignity and coping of the elderly remains an important issue that deserves more attention from the state, and no one should question it. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that, from the coming year, the average old-age pension will also be exempt from income tax, which will leave EUR 370 more per year for people of old age. This will also have a positive impact on incomes in the coming years, as the income tax exemption will increase together with the average pension. Also, from this year onwards, the support of a single-living pensioner will rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. It is paid in October to pensioners who, according to the population register, live alone and whose monthly available pension is less than EUR 669. The payment of the allowance will help to improve the income of nearly 90000 pensioners. I agree that, given the recent increase in prices, older people's income should rise at a faster pace. It must be acknowledged that it is extremely difficult to find sources of cover for the current tax system. But hopefully, after the elections to the Riigikogu in 2023, we will be able to implement a tax reform that will provide opportunities to increase the income of both pensioners and frontier workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U102	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is very good in substance, but we can make it much, much, much better in this Chamber if we support the amendment in the vote or interrupt the procedure of the draft act at second reading. And in the Commission, we will consider what was proposed by the Association of Estonian Pensioner Associations, i.e. to raise the base and national pension from 1 April 2022. Both options are in our hands today. There were also questions that were actually written or turned by the Association of Estonian Pensioners. I will take this opportunity to bring this important little paragraph, which they wrote in their letter on 6 December, to a wider circle of colleagues, because indeed not all are members of the Social Affairs Committee and the materials that are being discussed are so much that they simply cannot search out everyone. And now I quote: 'Members of the Social Committee of the honourable Riigikogu. A change of law is necessary. The average pension of EUR 552 is less than 40% of the average salary. 41% of older people live in relative poverty. Recent price increases, i.e. energy price increases, hitting the pensioners' wallet hard. Now Elektrilevi also announced that he would raise it (since the letter was written last year, it is said that next year. (h.k.) from 1 March of the following year, on average 3% of the network fee. All energy price increases will reach the prices of goods and services this year. In view of the above and recent inflation figures, we consider that the basic pension and the national pension should be increased by EUR 20 from 1 April 2022. Additional funds should also be generated in the first pillar of the pension for those leaving the second pillar. " End of quote. This letter was forwarded to us by the Association of Estonian Pensioner Associations, one of the largest front-office organizations in Estonia for the elderly. I am so sad that, unfortunately, the proposals that come from outside the government are being sidelined. Both politicians and at the moment, it also seems that the representative organisations of the elderly are, and that is very sad. I cannot fail to give an example here of the fact that, several times in September and December last year, the Socialists' proposal to raise the income support limit was proudly rejected by the government, but also by the coalition ambassadors of this hall. And now it is good that, at least now, the Minister for Social Protection must raise the level of subsistence with this proposal. It's a good thing he's still coming, but friends, this time, almost half a year, because it also needs to be enforced, this most difficult time, winter, high home expenses, these are the ones that are not covered, and the opportunity for people in the most difficult situation to apply for support is out of the question because of this delay. Today we are in a situation, and precisely in this Chamber, where there is an opportunity to change the agreements due to the situation, to review and jointly meet the elderly in Estonia today, from a cross-party perspective and according to the Riigikogu. I very much hope that the representatives elected by the people of this Chamber, in view of the situation that has arisen, will find this opportunity to vote either in favour of the amendment, in the event of a vote in favour of the amendment, support the interruption and the draft will go back to the Committee on Social Affairs in order to come back to the Chamber and actually improve the situation of the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U104	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U105	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In his replies, the chairman of the committee said, I think, in this Chamber now, historical words: I would have known that the crisis would come. And then three points, and the Commission does nothing. For the Centre Party, today it is clear that it does not matter what I do, but what I say. Do not follow my actions, but follow my words. Today's draft law is clearly it is brought-sayed things in the hall in 2000. I don't know who else we had in the Chamber at the time. When I look, there was no one on the EKRE side, there was no one on the Fatherland group today. As far as I know, there is no one in the Chamber who was at that time in the Riigikogu. There's no point in talking about what was done 20 years ago. Let's talk about today's situation. Frankly, as an entrepreneur, you get the feeling you don't know where you've come from. I'm here for the eleventh year. We are in a crisis, we are in an energy crisis, we have led our people into a poverty crisis in the last few months. And then we say it's nothing. Has anyone bothered to calculate what this 20 euros per year will do to the state budget? With today's number of pensioners, this size is 80 million. How much additional income tax came from last year because the second pension pillar became voluntary? Those numbers are hundreds. There is a lot of money coming from the fact that many people left the second pension pillar and the money goes straight to the first pillar, which was not discussed or asked by the Commission. How decisions can be made if you do not know which monetary numbers are or do not recommend knowing which monetary numbers are. The 330000 pensioners in Estonia, who are mostly in a very difficult situation today, are in a very difficult situation because of the energy crisis. We read on the news yesterday that 20,000 people have gone to apply for 20000330000. Most of these people aren't going because our people, our mothers and fathers, are so big that they don't go dealing with alms, they want to take care of themselves, they help their children and grandchildren. 2019 The coalition had a very clear message: we are implementing the second pillar of pension voluntaryisation. And that's why we're exceptionally raising pensions. The electoral promise of the Centre Party is an exceptional increase in pensions with indexation of EUR 100 in 2020. Now we are talking about 2023, when we have the funds to raise it from 1 January this year. I am glad that one of the coalition parties, the Reform Party, has supported. When I was chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, we did support for a single-living pensioner, and it will rise this year. The Reform Party, Kaja Kallas' main promise to the elections will be fulfilled, and one of my promises will be fulfilled. Three more minutes, please! [[Director: Three minutes extra time, please!]] But the Centre Party, who in all the election campaigns and wherever we go with our esteemed colleague Marika, tells us how the Centre Party supports pensioners. I sincerely believe that you are. Just as you fought for energy resolution measures, and today before 10 you finally found a solution, although it seems to me that to electricity buyers in the electricity market I do not know how much of a solution and relief it is. The gas ones may have a better solution. You gave up your basic promises, which you have made over the years, with this draft of an extraordinary pension increase, which should not be EUR 20, but much higher. And the second is that the average income tax or the average pension is exempt from income tax. The patriotic party has a genuinely sad feeling. We proposed an amendment in order to discuss matters a little more easily, and I want to say very clearly to all the members of the Riigikogu, especially the committee presidents and premieres, from this speaker. It's not like there's going to be a bill in the government, and that bill is 100 percent right. The decision is made by 101 two members of the Riigikogu, 101, no one else. And to say that the kind that came in the coalition agreement at the same time last year, we didn't know there was going to be an energy crisis. We no longer have an energy crisis, we have an economic crisis, we have a financial crisis for families, not just for pensioners. I think the Prime Minister said yesterday that two commas a little bit after a percentage are those who don't have a crisis, the rest of them do, I think that the percentage is 75 plus, who is very complicated today. Yes, the members of the Riigikogu will certainly be able to manage their salary, if they have behaved reasonably, have not taken up the debt burden so much that all the money must go on loan and then you have to drive a taxi to pay off these loans or buy shares. Everyone can do what they can, and some other entrepreneurs have bought and earned their shares, and we have some companies. We don't have to worry about whether or not we'll get elected next time, we'll have our own income. But we've been chosen here by our own people to protect and help our own people in this particular situation. I think today would be the right time for the coalition to come here with paper and say to interrupt the second reading. Because it should be clear to everyone now that the Prime Minister has been here on Tuesday and Wednesday to tell the Riigikogu that we are experiencing an energy crisis, an economic crisis and a security crisis. If we do not now know that there is a crisis, when will there be a crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U107	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U108	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I went shopping on Sunday, and there was an older lady standing in front of me. His shopping cart was pretty tiny, he had the essentials. There was milk, bread, a piece of sausage, something else. When the payment line came to him, he started looking for change in his wallet. And he didn't have enough for that one. He said I'd take the milk pack back, so I can do without the milk. I proposed that I pay the bill for him. He didn't agree at first, but eventually he did. After we talked. He had paid his electricity bill, and in the middle of the month, he had no money to buy his own food. In 30 years, we have reached the point that our people no longer have money for food. I just don't have words, it's so embarrassing. And then the coalition will come up here with a proposal that we then raise this pension, but not now, not today, when we are in a huge crisis, where the majority of our society is facing very, very big problems. Rising electricity prices, rising heat prices and not only, but as a result, all other prices are also rising; inflation is the highest in Europe. And then the coalition will justify to us why we can't give this little to our people, help them this year, even though the money is. The reason is that this is our agreement. Come on, I'm sorry! Do you have any empathy, understanding the depth of this crisis, compassion, mercy for your fellow humans who do not live as well as we live here with our great wages? No, that's because we have the most empathetic prime minister in Estonia. He doesn't care, all he says is, huh, not all pensioners need help, my father doesn't need help. Come on, I'm sorry if there's anything more impudent, cynical and watchful. I don't know if you dare look in the mirror out of embarrassment at all, but you probably don't care about God. Twenty euros, that's ridiculous, especially next year, when inflation has eaten half or more of it. But people need help today. The fact that you are telling us here that people are partially compensated for the rise in electricity prices, and so on and so on, it is nonsense, because all other prices are also rising and even more. And people are. Maybe if I go to the store this week on Sunday or Saturday, maybe there'll be ten instead of an old sissy who'll count their cents and who won't come to the end. I gave it to grandma, I don't usually have cash in my pocket, this time I did, I gave it all away. Of course, he didn't want to accept it, I gave it to him half-heartedly because I really did have blood in my heart to see people's trouble. But you don't care, absolutely. There is money, though. The pension reform has come from our crazy electricity prices and taxes today. The Treasury is overreacting, but no, you have agreed to lift it before the elections, then maybe we can fool our pensioners, we can buy their votes for this lousy 20 euro, which will cost nothing at all. It's extremely cynical, it's extremely ugly. And the excuse that we didn't know when we made the coalition agreement that the crisis was coming today is something you should all know, and it is never too late to change that agreement. The proposals have been made by the Alliance of pensioners, whoever we are in this opposition, today we also have an amendment that will be voted on. So let us support it and accept this rise this year. Laws can also be enforced retroactively, and the Centre Party itself has taken initiatives like this in the past, let us recall, even the law on detention houses, which was enforced retroactively. We will be able to make this pension increase from 1 January. Let us do this, show that you, even you, are human. I just don't have words. I'm embarrassed and not just embarrassed. I am deeply ashamed that you will adopt this law as it has been brought here, that this little one will only be available to our pensioners for the next year and until then, let them see for themselves how they can do it. Let him die or starve. As the Prime Minister said, our households, our families, our people are so wealthy that they will not be affected by electricity prices and other problems. For us and for him. But our people will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U110	Peter Ernits, please! Sorry, it's procedural first. Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Shouldn't the group speeches be before? Just a question. [[Debate in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U112	No, I don't think there's a line like that right now, yeah. Let's go the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U113	Yeah, Mart, you're gonna make it, but I'd be happy to give you a seat. Yeah. I haven't talked to my benchmate about this, but henn, the penguin, said what I've done to the last, I don't know if he did twice in less than a month. People are different and shops have been different. But the content has been the same. Yeah, I've been in a situation like this before, and I've solved it, and I'm not saying that these two cases can show anything, but in any case, he's been a badge to me. It's pretty bad. When I now read this protocol, 10 January, when the electricity was raging, everything was known, the Social Affairs Committee discussed it, sent it to this room today, and with the face of the fish sent the proposal to kill, the proposal to enter into force from 1 January of that year. What else is there to talk about? Relative poverty on the Statistical Office page, look. And look who's groaning the most at the hands of relative poverty, they're just a few pensioners. I looked at it a moment ago, 78.1%. 80%. Many have buried their husbands and so on. 80% groan in relative poverty. I think it's the ones in Hennu's box office that he's been exposed to, and the ones I've been exposed to. The fact that we are, in this way, a successful country in terms of the European red lamp. Minister of Health Kiik is, I'm not going to quote, has said that too. So that's that. I understand the embarrassment of coalition parties. Yeah, the Centre Party has been pounding that drum all the time, and I think he's sincere about coming sooner and more. But if you have the way it was the sunrise marriage and your girlfriend's got iron teeth, it's very difficult to resist her. And so it is. Andres Ergma, the leader of the Pensioner's Association, has said very well that if this proposal was that it could be enforced in April, April this year, but now we have to wait for happiness to enter our yard only at the beginning of 2023. So 300,000 and over this pensioner, and especially those who are lonely living in relative poverty, will have to wait another year for happiness. But yes, 20 euros is a weekly basket for many, the same 20 euros. When was it when the "Actual Camera" showed how people were smacked in Narva, and one of the old dads who went back to get some bumaga and told me how much it was 20 euros. They didn't talk about a pension rise, but they talked about 20 euros. We here, so to speak, I hope, sit here and discuss it seriously and we will vote on it soon. In fact, we are going to vote on this proposal so that we can make it a little earlier. Yes, of course I understand it's meant that the election will come and the coalition will have the best match to go with so-called foreign money and offer it 20. Look what we're giving you. The fact that inflation has eaten it and everything else like that and the price of electricity is raging or energy prices are raging and it is not known how long they will do it, in any case for another ten years, can be certain before wind farms come into the sea and so on, and so on. But it is clear that its only thought is to come before the elections with a carrot like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U114	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U115	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U117	But now we're coming to the finals. January 10th, the Social Affairs Committee, where I am not, but many of my colleagues are sitting there. There was a vote. There was a vote on whether or not to put it into effect on 1 January this year. It would make sense. And I'll see what happened there. Who voted against? A good colleague, Ele Everaus. Hi! That's okay. Let's push it before the election. Second, Lucky Hill, I don't know where he is right now. Welcome! He voted no, he did, until 1 January 2023. Toomas Järveoja. Where are you, Thomas? Courageously voted 'no'. Who else? Marika Tuus here speaks eloquently what should be, but voted against. Let's push before the election. Dr. Vassilyev. Where are you? What did you do on January 10th? You voted against! Let's postpone until 2023. Well, and poor Siret, as well as what he did, even though I know what Siret's thinking. But it was foreplay. The hour of truth will come when, I hope, the hall will come true and the same proposal will be voted on. And then everyone comes out of their holes and shows who they really are. Should we postpone in this crazy situation, as it is now, to come with it immediately before the elections, or do we do it right now if it is necessary right now? So the hour of truth will come soon. Keep your eyes open with your colleagues and those watching us. Then it turns out that those who are certainly opposed to it. There are many, many more, many more, besides Hele Everaus, Luck Pillaku, Toomas Järveoja, Siret Kotka, Marika Tuusi and Viktor Vassilyev, and Mart certainly also, Mart Võrguship. So please, Mart, it's your turn now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U118	To clarify that group leaders have the first right to speak when there is an OTRK debate. Please, Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, perhaps in the case of the previous speakers, it is difficult for the opposition, if the government and coalition come up with initiatives that make things better for the people, then it is not for God's sake that we can say that something is good and praise the coalition. And then you have to disparage your colleagues or scare people. Absolutely not! I urge that if we do something good, we do it together, and when we talk about electricity prices, we have some pretty polite measures for people, and that is for everyone. Just this morning, a new package was agreed. And I'm sure the government and the coalition will see if we have a problem, we'll help our people. But to this day and to this bill, which we are discussing. Today, at second reading, we have a draft which will increase pensions by EUR 20 exceptionally from 1 January 2023. As a result of this draft, the average pension will reach EUR 652 next year, and this is a strong message for our elderly people that the state will make efforts to ensure that they have a decent old age, so that there will be something left over from daily spending, either for their children or for their grandchildren. I recall that in 2019, before the Riigikogu elections, we had an average pension of 448 euros. This means that in four years pensions have increased by more than 200 euros, or almost a third. Of course, this is also a sign that despite the many crises that have hit us, the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia have done a good job and the economy has grown. However, the state's contribution through extraordinary pension increases is also clearly visible in this result. I have two good news for the elderly. Firstly, as we decided a few months ago, the average pension tax exemption will apply from 1 January 2023, i.e. we will no longer penalise the good pensioners who are working and contributing to society and wish to earn more. We commend them for this and will come to our aid. If you now have to pay income tax on every euro that a person earns more than 500 euros, then the average pension recipient will have 152 euros out of the tax hump, so he will get more of that money. For an average pension recipient, this change means an additional EUR 370 per year. But that's not all. Already this year, the support of a single-living pensioner established by the Reform Party will rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. This will help support those elderly people who, when living with someone, are unable to share their home expenses and who, according to studies, are at greater risk of poverty. For these reasons, I believe that this is a very good draft and I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U120	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please! [[Urmas Reinsalu is asking for more time.]] Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U121	Agreements must be respected, especially those relating to the social impact of coping with older people. And the reform of the second pillar of pension, as pointed out here by Aivar Kokk, stated clearly and logically: as a result of this reform, the money that is, figuratively speaking, released from the state budget, which is linked to the obligations of a smaller country to make 4% wage payments to the second pension pillar, is not taken out of the pension system. This was a fundamental starting point. This money has been released, this money has already been released in that financial year, and the agreement was in the previous coalition that this money would remain in the pension system. Perhaps as a real transfer to current disbursements of the public pension system, as foreseen by the clear, understandable and logical agreement of the previous coalition, [go so] that disbursements are made at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, the new coalition broke this agreement and the basic substantive element in implementing the reform of the second pillar of pension and postponed the pension increase by 12 months. With one decision, one policy option, the pension increase was postponed. It's not fit for purpose. It is a word-writing, it is not justified in substance, and it certainly contradicts the expectations of older people as well. I would like to draw attention to the position expressed by the Head of the Association of Estonian Pensioners at the meeting of the Social Committee, which clearly called for this pension increase to take place this year. So this is the pathos under which the Isamaa Group has tabled an amendment for the state to keep its word. True, this word is not a legally valid word, but it has been the political will to carry it out the reform of the second pillar, which has, after all, been applied in stages. But, of course, we support our amendment, we call on all Members, for whom speaking is important as a country's pattern, to do so. And secondly, of course, we welcome the fact that the average pension is exempt from income tax. This idea didn't come from nothing. This idea was at the time of the then coalition, in those lost distant times when Andrus Ansip was prime minister. Then our party proposed it, if I remember correctly, in 2013 for the budgetary procedure. And we have achieved that the average pension is exempt from income tax. It's been more intermittent, all right, we know, but now it's reasonable and appropriate to return to it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U122	Thank you. I don't see any more requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. There is exactly one amendment to the 466 SE. This amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U123	I am asking for this amendment to be put to the vote, because it is really very important that we can help our pensioners and raise pensions this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U124	Got it. It has been put to the vote. And before we vote, we have to make a séance. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the first amendment on 466, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been neglected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-20_U125	The amendment was supported by 26 delegates, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Although the proposal for interruption was mentioned orally in the negotiations here, we have not received it in writing. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading of the bill is complete. This has exhausted today's agenda and the session is closed. Thank you.
