ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our 3rd working week Thursday session this year. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U2	Honorable President! A respectable representative of the people! By the members of the Riigikogu, we submit an inquiry to our beloved Prime Minister concerning the law on notification of violations submitted by the government during the parliamentary procedure yesterday, which provides for the establishment of a total anonymous appeal system in Estonia. However, we have raised a number of practical questions, leaving aside the disgusting moral perspective of this draft. In particular, we are confused about the way in which the competent authorities that are going to deal with complaints via eavesdropping lines or eavesdropping lines are anonymous, defined in the case of churches, congregations, newspapers, kindergartens, schools, universities, military units, Parliament, courts, non-profit organisations and the Defence League separately. We ask the Prime Minister to give an overview of this. We are very interested in the people of Estonia to know their heroes, who gave the consent of the Riigikogu to the establishment of an anonymous knock system in the Estonian Parliament, inter alia, by stating that gathering information is justified by law, which means that Members of Parliament can collect information on paper, record information and then forward it to the special department that will be designated in Parliament. This is a remarkably interesting innovation in the middle of a security crisis on the government's annual birthday when we are dealing with such a comprehensive project. So we expect answers from the Prime Minister. If in this Chamber we have any common sense in terms of majority votes, Parliament must reject this action with disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U3	It's a procedure. Raimond Kaljulaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U4	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to ask if it is in line with our home and our rules of procedure, that when the ambassador sees such a nightmare and then comes, he will present an inquiry to the Prime Minister about what he dreamed of. Is such an inquiry still in line with our home and working procedures law, or should such enquiries be factual in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U5	I will now read what I have here, a cheater: the Bureau will decide on the further processing of this inquiry in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. But in general, if I remember correctly, at last week's Bureau meeting, there was a debate on how strictly the Bureau should follow the way in which the content fits or does not fit into the Rules of Procedure. Our current board considered that the broadest possible limits should be for ambassadors to make inquiries. And Urmas Reinsalu also has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U6	Thank you. No, I don't have a nightmare thing. Yesterday, I proposed that the Fatherland Group reject this draft. Such legal innovations, for which the Social Democrats were surprised to remain on the neutral platform yesterday, are certainly not acceptable to us and are undoubtedly the construction of dystopia in such an approach. Of course, Mr. Kaljulaiu will be more comfortable in the future, and will be able to file anonymous complaints. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You don't have to bother bullying the President of the sitting. But what I find most absurd is that this law excludes doctors from the system of anonymous snitching, but it does not really protect confessional secrecy. This shows the moral outlook on which this draft is based.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U7	It wasn't procedural, of course. I'm glad to see that although we took a very long time last night, today everything is in good shape. The next procedure is Henn in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U8	Yes, indeed. After all, the laws prohibit us from submitting unconstitutional drafts and, no doubt, this draft of yesterday's knocking, that is a nightmare. After all, this is a completely cosmic government's will to bring us back to the Stalinian regime of totalitarian control. In fact, the Riigikogu should have sent it to the trash bin, but unfortunately, that was not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U9	Henn, it's not procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U10	I don't know what procedure we can use now as an unconstitutional simply trash can. [[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U11	Henn, it wasn't procedural either, just as Urmas didn't ask a procedural question. Let's try to stick to the procedure. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U12	Thank you. I have a procedural question about the procedural question. I understand everyone has a terrible desire to get out on Thursday morning, but, ladies and gentlemen, let's cut the crap! Seriously! We're working here, and the fact that we have a desire to hand over somebody's drafts or inquiries is absolutely correct. I think that's the frame that should stay in. And just a request to the President of the sitting, too, that, in fact, let us not start a political debate here in the context of procedural questions. The procedural questions are about the procedure for conducting the sitting, and the fact that the President of the sitting does not know in advance, I agree with the President of the sitting, I have sat there myself and hopefully I will continue to sit for a few months, at least until the March elections arrive. But until then, ladies and gentlemen, I really call on you, do not abuse the opportunity that has been given. I understand Reinsalu has a terrible desire to abuse it all the time. But please don't you and everyone else do it! This is rude to all other members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U13	It's true, it was an explanation for the procedure, but it wasn't a procedural question. I have the same, I join Hanno Pevkur's appeal. We have not yet reached the implementation of the sitting; let us not now start a political debate here under the name of procedural questions. Really, if there's no procedure, I'm not gonna let you finish the question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U14	Thank you! In fact, Mr Pevkur spoke absolutely right, and I recall that this procedural avalanche was fired by a good colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid. But on Raimond Kaljulaid, I would recommend that you read a great book like Solzhenitsyn's Gulag archipelago and...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U15	It's not procedural either, Kalle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U16	... then he could, so to speak, bring himself up to speed, what's a catastrophic dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U17	It wasn't procedural. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Let's stick to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U18	Yeah. Please name the members of the Bureau who actually took this knocking nonsense into Parliament's proceedings. Did the Bureau unanimously take such insanity, which is contrary to the spirit of the Estonian Constitution, into parliamentary proceedings? And we will fight this law by all means. You can't shut your mouth. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U19	The Bureau took the draft procedure, consensually, yes, all three of us. That's all we have left. If we get a draft from the government, we'll send it to the Commission. The Commission dealt with this. I don't have... Yesterday we went through this beautifully, how the Commission voted on first reading, and this is a normal procedure. If he has a breach of the Constitution or a contradiction with the Constitution, then we also have procedural instruments to do so. Peter Ernits, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U20	Good manager! Yeah, it's a procedural question. If the week's menu of.. is Thursday, the last time it's so empty, there's nothing, so what's left with the procedure? If you can't talk, actions can come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U21	I think we had a week's menu, or Riigikogu's agenda last night, which went well past midnight. So I don't think we're short on work. Henn Põllaas, a bill or an inquiry? No? The button went by mistake. Okay, take it off. Then it is that I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the board, and then we will deal with it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's do the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U22	61 Members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U23	Today we have an item on the agenda, a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, with the number 475 SE. This is a second reading. In order to deal with this, I would like to call a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Mr Luck Pillaku. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the 475 procedure between the first and second readings in the Committee on Social Affairs. As a reminder, since we discussed this draft here in November last year, these amendments have been initiated to address the problems raised in practice in the implementation of the law. In addition, the draft provides for the payment of a survivor's pension in September to students aged 18 to 20, whether or not their data are already included in the Estonian Education Information System. It also concerns pensioners living abroad, pensioners living abroad, who will be able to prove that they are still alive by electronic means to pay their pension. It is also foreseen that the period of membership of a legal person's management or control body shall be included in the period of retirement if social security contributions were paid during that period. In addition, according to the amendment to the Pensions Act, a person who has retired from the second pillar may re-occupy in the second pillar or suspend his or her pension if he or she is not yet in retirement, but his or her capacity to work has been restored in the meantime. No amendments were made within the deadline set for the draft law. Similarly, the Association of Estonian Pensioners' Associations, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Banking Association and the Association of Estonian Insurance Associations did not have any further proposals, to whom the Commission turned for an opinion. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed this draft three times after the first reading: on 10, 17 and 24 January. On 10 January we also looked at the substance of the draft and some amendments had been prepared by the Commission together with the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs. They were rather technical in nature and the need for greater legal clarity was ensured. On 17 January we voted on these amendments and also made initial procedural decisions. On 20 January, however, the Minister of Social Protection addressed the Social Protection Committee with a letter requesting that amendments to the Act implementing the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act be dealt with as soon as possible. The proposals set out in the letter, which I will present a little bit more about the amendments here after a while, were discussed in the Social Affairs Committee on 24 January, and representatives of the Ministry of Social Protection, the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators participated in the session. The Chairwoman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Siret Kotka, pointed out in these amendments that, if the Committee on Social Affairs approves these proposals, we must interrupt the second reading of this draft so that the political groups can examine these proposals and, if they so wish, submit further amendments. Now for the amendments. The amendments are all included in the table of the amendments, to a total of six. First of all, the proposals made by the Minister for Social Protection, which concern subsidies to be paid as energy price relief measures. To put it simply, the first of them envisages that the bailiff would not be able to withdraw the aid from the beneficiary to cover past debts in order to mitigate the rise in the price of energy. The second amendment concerns unemployment benefit: a person who receives unemployment benefit would not be included in his or her income, otherwise he or she might lose his or her unemployment benefit. And that's for sure, I guess, we don't want to. The members of the Social Affairs Committee agreed with the proposals made in the letter of the Minister for Social Protection, as emergency and targeted energy support must reach those in need, covering the rise in energy prices, and people must also retain unemployment support as a substitute income in order to make it possible to live decently during the period of unemployment benefit. These proposals are in the table of amendments as amendment No 1. The following are inserted after the second sentence of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the However, I would also point out, in substance, Amendment 5 concerning the payment of survivor's pension, which we talked about a little bit more about in the Commission, because the draft initially laid down a new principle under which a young person receiving a survivor's pension for study abroad would be suspended until he submitted the documents that he is studying abroad. Figuratively speaking, this would have meant that if, for example, a young person goes abroad to study in March and he presents the necessary documents here in May, the interim period between March and May would not have been paid a survivor's pension, nor would it have been retroactively. In the Committee on Social Affairs, of course, we could not agree to this. And now Amendment 5, which has been made, provides that when a young person has submitted his or her own documents, he or she will receive his or her survivor's pension retroactively for the period in which that hole remains. Amendment 6 amends the date of entry into force of the law so that it enters into force on 1 June instead of 1 February. As far as the proof of living is concerned, these provisions enter into force in general. Finally, procedural decisions taken by the Commission. On 17 January, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda, including 26 January, and that the second reading be closed, but in the light of the proposals received in the meantime, we reviewed the procedural decisions at the meeting on 24 January and the Social Affairs Committee decided to propose that the second reading be suspended in plenary, that the deadline for amendments be set at 31 January and that, if the second reading is interrupted today, that the second reading be continued in Riigikogu plenary on 7 February. All these decisions in the Commission were consensual. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U25	Thank you. There's a question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U26	Thank you. What is very nice is that you are discussing matters on the committee and the chairman of the committee says who is not himself in the Riigikogu, so let us not be too hasty about this draft. I think it is quite sad to hear that the possibility of freezing energy benefits is valid at this point, and the Commission has been lurking for two weeks, instead of last week having to come here, do a second reading, and today should have been the third reading, so that those people who have now asked for energy benefits three months ago that their amount should not be seized. But we are only discussing the second reading, interrupting the second reading, and then we are only discussing the second reading from February. Did the Minister of Justice who screwed this up have you in the committee to talk about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U27	Thank you, Honourable Questioner. First of all, I suggest a little more optimistic moods and not be so evil because it also doesn't have a good effect on mental health. But I can assure you there hasn't been any joking. Therefore, in order to find the draft to which these necessary amendments should be made, I myself tried very carefully to find the draft so that these necessary amendments could be adopted as soon as possible. And as soon as possible these proposals were sent to the Riigikogu, as soon as possible the Social Affairs Committee discussed them, and as soon as possible we have sent them to the Chamber, and we have also adopted them in an accelerated manner, so that after a week without trial we can also adopt them immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U28	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll take your last response to the fact that mental health isn't working well. Please specify whether Aivar Kokka's mental health, your mental health, the minister's mental health or those who have lost their support will not be well affected by their mental health, as indicated by Aivar Kokk, that the minister has literally failed and done, well, screw-up. Whose mental health is not well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U30	Thank you. First of all, I think negative emotions have no effect on anyone, including your mental health. Once again, the Minister has not hesitated: as soon as possible these amendments were sent to the Riigikogu and we are now discussing them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U31	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U32	Thanks, lucky you're worried about my health! And I'm not mad at you. I'm mad because you said in your report that the chairman of the committee said so. You did not explain that the Commission had discussed this at all as soon as this draft was dealt with. That was the question in your report. And the second is that already from 13 to 14 January this topic was known. Today is the 27th, if I remember correctly in the morning, there should be a date. That's bullshit. I have led four committees here in the Riigikogu and we have solved the same situation in one week, not even a month, a month or two weeks. There are opportunities. This same bill for second reading did not come this week; it would have been possible to get a second reading last week. And my real question is that, on the one hand, the Commission, which is worried about 100,000, we are talking about 100,000 people whose support could be taken away. In an energy crisis, we are not talking about one or two or three people. And if any minister gets such a mistake, there's two options. Whether the Commission itself proposes this improvement does not have to wait for it from the Ministry. Didn't have to come from the Ministry of Social Affairs to make that correction, it came from the Ministry of Justice, and it should have come from the Ministry of Justice. That's just what I'm trying to tell you right now, people are asking. In January, for the first time, there was an opportunity for the previous three months' own and if this money was taken away... Three months' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U33	Aivar, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U34	Is that really legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U35	Thank you for drawing this attention, but once again: the Committee on Social Affairs received these proposals on 20 January. As soon as possible we discussed them and have sent them to this Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U36	Jüri Jaanson, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U37	Mr President, I would like to ask you to clarify what the time was set for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U38	Question time of one minute. In general, we've developed a habit here lately that if a few seconds pass, I'm gonna ring the bell, if it goes any further, I'm gonna cut in. That's right. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U39	Thank you. The Social Affairs Committee must, of course, deal with people's welfare. And the issues that concern pensions, etc., are understandable. But my question is: has the Committee on Social Affairs, especially in view of older people and their experience in life, discussed this law on knocking? The fact that we actually put 100,000 people in this Soviet occupation experience, who are working pensioners, in such a situation of knocking. People who are members of congregations and churches must switch to a knock scheme, as well as in nursing homes and health care facilities. Where do we want to go with such a knocking system, a respected representative of the Social Affairs Committee? And please also give your assessment of this draft for such a moral perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U40	Thank you for that question. This is not about this draft, and therefore I am not giving any assessments here, because I am the rapporteur for the lead committee for a specific draft, and the Commission has not discussed the issue you have put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U41	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am asking about Amendment 5. You actually opened it. Suspension of pension if the person moves abroad. Indeed, it must be considered reasonable. Indeed, payment shall continue on the day of suspension after receipt of the application in a form which can be reproduced in writing. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of why this suspension is even happening. What's the point of stopping it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U43	Thank you for that question. As explained to us in the Commission, these documents are needed for young people to confirm that they have gone abroad to study and, as a result, the gap remains there. But it really is that it will not be paid, but that it will receive a survivor's pension retroactively for that period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U44	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U45	Thank you. I would like to continue with the question put by Mr Reinsalu. However, it seems to me that these two things are connected. Here, some of my colleagues came up with the opinion that the minister was jokutas. Do we have a phone set up to give you a clue that the Minister is joking?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U46	Thank you. I understand it's gone yesterday and the discussions yesterday. I know there is one phone in Tallinn, but there isn't one in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U47	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The issue is about the money for energy support. I've been getting a lot of signals that fullers have been picking up these money. I'm interested now that, let's say, with the changes here, something happens that is being paid, it's going to work backwards. How is this mechanism put in place, and how are these funds paid back to people who have already been taken away by the realtor?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U49	Thank you for that question. This is what we said in the Commission, and there was a particular question of how many people will have had this support to cover past debts. And I'll take a look. By bailiffs and the insolvency administrators' association, the answer was that there are no such known cases yet. And what is now about this retroactive application, we have the Social Affairs Committee on Tuesday, and we are going to discuss this separately, because, yes, we also admitted in the Commission, the Ministry of Justice admitted that there are problems with it, in the sense that it is not so easy to apply retroactively.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U50	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Now here's the thing about the bailiffs and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators saying it isn't. In fact, these people already exist. Obviously, these things go automatically, quickly and maybe they won't even let you know. The question is what a person has to do when this operation and process are still in progress. How is this money paid back? Either way, bailiffs aren't always such angels who follow everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U52	Thank you. Yeah, I understand that concern, and there's no way it's gonna stain at all. Since I do not have a good answer to you here, on Tuesday I will certainly take this concern with me to the Commission and we will discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U53	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Now we can go to the negotiations. Aivar Chef has expressed the wish for negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U54	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The government should have foreseen the possibility of freezing energy benefits. The explanation by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri that the situation that has arisen in which bailiffs may seize extraordinary energy compensation amounts is depressing, to put it mildly, because the coalition could not foresee that such a need could ever arise. In essence, there has been a situation where debtors are still more indebted than before due to a government accident at work. If you take Julianus Inkasso's 2021 overview, there are at least 235000 payment failures in Estonia. The number of persons with payment disruptions was estimated at 91000. That's a considerable amount. It doesn't make any sense how this could have been overlooked by the coalition. For example, bailiffs are not allowed to seize public family benefits, parental benefits or disability benefits from the debtor. When, on my initiative, we created the support of a single pensioner, we also made sure that this would go to improve the well-being of pensioners and that the law would provide for the necessary exception. Maris Lauri, a former Minister of Finance and a long-standing member of the Monetary Commission, could already be familiar with such matters. It now turns out, however, that the important detail was overlooked in the preparation of the energy compensation, and the Minister is not even prepared to apologise for it, but claims that the situation could not have been foreseen. Price shock and screamed energy bills have reached thousands of people. If the unfair and bureaucratic measure created by the coalition can also be seized, this may mean that the debtors will remain in even greater debt as a result. It is not possible for people to simply pay their energy bills. Non-payment means interest on late payment, which, over the year, gives the same interest rate as for fast loans companies. The debtors therefore remain in even greater debt. Since the aim of this support is to mitigate the effects of the energy crisis, it should also be possible for people to use it, not for other purposes. I believe most people want to get rid of their debts. We've been in a coronal crisis for the second year, and now we're in an energy crisis. This must be taken into account, and the failure of the government must not make people's situation worse. The coalition should come to its senses. Today's bureaucratic, people-running and unfair measure will not solve the situation. Instead, we need a reform of the electricity market, a reduction in the value added tax (VAT) on energy and measures to control gas prices. But the Minister of Justice would expect an apology, not self-righteousness. I myself have been chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I know how quickly things can be done in the Committee on Social Affairs. There is an official of the Social Affairs Committee sitting here, always heartily, even during the night hours, preparing the bill and making corrections if necessary. You just have to have the courage to ask your people for help. When we knew the situation was critical two weeks ago. Today, of course, it is easy to read because those who need this support are in the hundreds of thousands, those who have asked are in the tens of thousands. Person, an Estonian person often does not go to ask for gifts of mercy and, knowing that it is going somewhere else anyway, to pay for debts, he may be waiting and hoping. In particular, he hopes that after I answered the journalist in Postimees on 14 January that such mistakes can actually be corrected in a couple of weeks in this Chamber. It's been two weeks now. It's gonna be a week off. I don't know, I didn't hear from the report that the Social Affairs Committee was meeting tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I didn't hear that much of the deadline was given for the proposed amendments, but I didn't notice it, in order to actually speed this up, because the situation is critical. If three months' money is taken away, what's really gonna happen? I really ask the Social Affairs Committee to do this seriously. I know, lucky you're very social, and you're doing it with your heart. However, perhaps it is a pity that the Commission's Chairwoman is not here, who actually summons the Commission, and this problem should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U55	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Good luck, do you want a line? Let's wait, Urmas, before luck gets a reply. Please, Happy Hill!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U56	Thank you. I simply point out to the previous speaker that I said that the deadline for amendments is 31 January, and I also pointed out that the Committee on Social Affairs will meet on Tuesday. The second reading would be in this Chamber on 7 February in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U57	Please, Urmas! Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U58	Well, in the case of this draft, it is, of course, sloppy at the moment for the things that have caused it to be interrupted, but it is a coercion and I understand the behaviour of the Social Committee. In the whole context, in the context of legislation, in the context of this law, my appeal is a clear appeal to the Estonian Parliament: we must rise to the foots of this law on the subject of this law on knocking, a comprehensive law of appeal, which has been passed into this parliamentary procedure, and which I believe is the most stupid and unacceptable law in the parliamentary shed of all time in Estonia, both in terms of moral and rule of law. I call on all Members to fight by all means and to give speeches in all laws about how immoral, inappropriate and unnecessary it is to create a nationwide knocking system. Because, you see, it's not a matter of question, we understand the specific needs of source protection regarding money laundering issues relating to crimes. But this law is comprehensive in its uncertainty and becomes extremely risky, especially in terms of morality, also in the expression and motivation of such passions as anonymous complaints, which must not really be based on trust and cooperation between people in a normal country. We have law enforcement authorities that have to deal with crime prevention and crime prevention. Now we have this situation. You note the orwellian formulation of this law, "anonymous complaints against an offence that may be expressed in action or inaction"? And all the laws. There are over 400 laws in Estonia. And you will also note that anonymous appeals are permitted under this law even if it is not a violation of the law, but, and I quote, 'it is against the purpose of the law'. I'm sorry! Such an orwelllike text, also as a lawyer, I do not understand, which means a system of anonymous appeals against persons whose activities are lawful, but whose actions or omissions are contrary to the objective of the law. You notice?! The fact that the activity is legal or inaction, but the intention, the intention, is contrary to the purpose of the law, is assessed. This system is comprehensive in its totality, it starts to cover all staff, and in larger organisations, hundreds of special officials are starting to emerge from the total number, whose responsibility is to deal with these anonymous complaints. And you'll notice what orwellian power or the power known to us from the past will be in the hands of these people. The complaints will be received in the safe, and then the person will decide what to do with the complaint. Do you want to contact the competent authority? And you're paying attention again to the orwellian imbecile? The competent authority is not mentioned in the law, these competent authorities will be gathered in practice, it is the Defence Police Department, it is some kind of ministry, it is some other supervisory authority or even, as the law states, some kind of institution of the European Union. And then, in fact, this person, like Solzhenitsyn, has described the anonymous incantations of the Gulag archipelago, the x-fasts, the beams that always hit. The complainant remains anonymous, the accused is defenseless, and the person in this position, the so-called Special Branch, has the absolute power to do with these complaints. Do you react to the signal by addressing the competent authority, assessing it yourself or keeping quiet? And the most blatant thing I think is that this system is also intended to be implemented in all constitutional institutions, such as the Supreme Court. So we have a situation where there is a mechanism, a procedure for producing and evaluating anonymous complaints against state judges. I am not going to talk about this grotesque that, at the same level of the Estonian parliamentary state, we have reached a situation where a separate official is appointed to the Riigikogu, where he will actually make a complaint system in Parliament. And I would like to emphasise once again, for all actions or omissions, which then concern offences or lawful conduct, which is.. and I repeat the quote to the 'inconsistency with the purpose of the rule of law'. And I would also like to remind you that this law also provides for the principle that it is also permitted to collect information and data for the purpose of submitting an anonymous complaint, unless it is a separate offence. This means that actually recordings, collecting materials, all this becomes an organic part of this culture. We know that all people struggle with different characteristics, feelings, and all people also have a vile aspect within them. And the social circumstances either encourage or actually slow the emergence of this lowliness. And in my opinion, the greatest and most tragic moment of this bill is that it actually begins to cultivate and promote instincts in society on a large scale. And all of this, which becomes particularly orwellian, is apparently done in the interests of legal order and legal stability. We have guaranteed everything, signals are coming, the military unit has the appropriate person, the Defence League unit has the appropriate person, make anonymous complaints, the complainant remains anonymous. On board ships on crews. But it's all familiar to us from the past. And now it's being placed on our table, in cold peace, on the anniversary of the current government, in the midst of a security crisis. In the midst of the great practical problems facing the Estonian people, it is said: "Now this is the thing where we are going to introduce this new legal order in Estonia, where all people who work hard have to become so-called voluntary co-workers. " By that logic, it is. I would point out that it is particularly cynical in moral terms that, for example, church organisations are also obliged to create such persons and channels. According to my memory, at least formally, such institutions did not exist in the Lutheran Church even during Soviet times. Although there was a Commissioner for Religious Affairs who was in charge of the church organisation and who was in charge of shutting them down, there was no formal obligation, in fact, to appoint such schemes and officials in the church organisations themselves, who would then write complaints. On who? On the clergy, on the church staff. Schools, universities, too. So this is the message we convey to our people, to our growing generation. Shame! Shame! Parliament must go to battle and we must fight this fight until this opponent has been defeated with this immoral perspective. And if necessary, there must also be mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U59	It's a procedure. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U60	Good manager! I have heard a very insulting statement here from Mr Reinsalu that we should rise to the back feet. But that means we also have forelegs. And if there are forelegs, then we're animals. To whom could I complain to my colleague Reinsalu that he would humiliate us so deeply? Me personally, and Professor Lotman too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U61	Peter, we're in the middle of a negotiation. You can make a reply, you can give a speech. I'm not. I do not consider it possible to tell the ambassadors in advance what is the content of the question or answer or the speech. I don't think it's possible for us to do that. It wasn't procedural. I mean, I thought it was a line. Comment: Reinsalu gave a breathtaking 8-minute speech here about how not to complain, and you ask where to complain. Doesn't match that last story. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U62	Thank you. Indeed, yesterday we saw this kind of legislative triumph in its most negative form of expression. And I would now like to ask that, since this law obliges us to knock too, how will it be in the Riigikogu? Has the Management Board discussed whether we choose from among ourselves, just as the President of the Riigikogu is elected, the Knocking Commissioner, or whether it will automatically be the Chairman of the Riigikogu, or will the Management Board appoint it by itself? So how can we proceed in the future? Because today, despite the great and good will of the government, we do not have that opportunity. Who, where and when can we knock? Has the board discussed this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U63	Yeah, see, the manager has a hammer here and we knock all the time. But not the same thing. The honest answer is that this has not been discussed by the Bureau. If there's any way the law should apply, we'll have to discuss it. Let's continue the negotiations. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! I'm sure you've heard such a sentence about some talented people that everything that his hand touches turns into gold. But as the world always does, there is black and white, night and day. The same is true of touching this gold. I can safely say that everything that is being touched by the current government, the Reform Party and the Central Party government will turn into not gold, but dirt, or dust. Another example is in this hall today. The government will come up with a bill that bailiffs will be banned from withdrawing energy subsidies from those people who have fallen into debt in connection with enforcement proceedings. It comes to this Chamber and it is only in the Chamber and in the Committee on Social Affairs at one point that it is discovered that what happens if these funds have already been taken away and it is not fair or purposeful, which is why they have been paid. Then, with special twists, they try to get this thing back in order to make up for their mistakes. Good luck Pillak told my question about what happens to those people who are already in the mill and the money is gone. They said there were no such people according to the Law Enforcement Officers and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators. I say again, there's a lot of these people because they won't write to me. And it actually shows, coming back to touching that gold and turning it into soil, that the current government is unable to predict absolutely, to anticipate the possible legal consequences. And to my question, what will happen to those people who have been deprived of money in the form of support for energy, there is actually no solution at the moment. But there are many, as many as there are enforcement proceedings, bailiffs like ravens working there to get the money that they will, of course, get their reward. It is not human, it is not the rule of law. And I have to say this: yesterday, when the so-called birthday, the first birthday, of this sunrise government came true, they have already achieved a full kick in the first place, by turning back their eyes to their own machinery, which is absolutely moving towards the destruction of the Estonian state. Here we take the increase in energy prices, which could have been avoided if it were for the Estonian people. Abolition of CO2 quotas, monopolisation of electricity prices, i.e. setting a price cap. There are other possibilities, they didn't. Contributing to the pan-European trend that energy is suddenly disappearing. The current moment, which has already been touched here, culminated yesterday when Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, from the Reform Party, came to the remote and demanded the consent of the informants to the law. Absurd theater! Where have we gotten to? Clearly, the European Union... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U65	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U66	Clearly, the European Union..., which sharpens the tooth on our resources, nature, has taken as an example the Stalinist methods of creating a system of snitching to divide people. This isn't gonna work! And if we have to, we'll fight with force. It's gone this far. And worst of all, the Minister of the Reform Party comes and lies to the members of the Riigikogu from this very remote point, from this very remote point, and we have to believe what he says! We checked the ratings table on TV this morning. The Reform Party, which has shone most of its life as a star, has fallen to the fourth place, if I remember correctly, with 17%. [[Martin Helme says 19%.]] This is in itself a sign that this government is incapable of doing anything for the people. Take Estonia's security, for example. How much has the Estonian Conservative People's Party wanted mid-earth air control to be introduced in any case? Where are you going with that? It doesn't fit here! Javelin is now given away with shoulder-portable anti-tank systems, and the latest news in the press also tells us that the howitzers are also going down the same road as the Javelins, or Ukraine. What does the Reform Party want to do? Obviously, the direction is to turn Estonia into a federal part of the European Union, where we no longer have any say. Because, in view of the current influx of EU directives, the trend is rock-proof. And I say straight out of this remote control: there is a limit to the suffering of the people, and at one point we will no longer accept it in the normal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U67	The procedure, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U68	Thank you, Mr President. My concern about this emergency situation, which this draft has caused, actually forces me to address the President of the sitting so that Parliament's Bureau can actually discuss this situation today. And...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U69	Explain what kind of bill you're talking about. Is it about the bill that is now, or what was it yesterday?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U70	The law on notification of infringements. In fact, we have a provision in the Penal Code that criminals are actually deleted from the criminal record, but the reports of infringements, the anonymous complaints that are actually in safes, there is nothing about their deletion, they last and they survive. It is particularly interesting that the scope of this anonymous complaint system is actually universal, extending across the globe to Estonians. In fact, our foreign representations must also be forced to lodge these anonymous complaints if they have information about the violation of the law, either to the competent authorities of the European Union or to the Estonian authorities. I really ask the board to discuss this crisis situation today, this is no joke in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-27_U71	We heard. The call requests are now over and the negotiations are closed. Let us examine the amendments. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs itself and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The author of the second amendment is the Committee on Social Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth amendment, as well as the proposed Social Affairs Committee and the lead committee, have taken full account of it. Amendment 5, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Commission itself, has taken full account of this. And the sixth amendment has also been tabled by the Commission itself and the Commission has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 475. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 31 January this year. The item is closed and today's session is closed.
