ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 17th plenary session of the Riigikogu. And first of all, I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries. Please! Riigikogu speech chair Kalle Grünthal, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I came before you relatively, in my opinion, with a clean shirt, a white shirt, for the reason that this should be the work of our public authorities: stainless and clean and white. But unfortunately, at least the Estonian Conservative People's Party has such an impression that there are clearly shortcomings in the work of the prosecutor's office. You're asking why. I'll get it. Do you remember the mistake of Minister Liina Kersna's public procurement rules? The DA's office didn't find a case. The case of vaccines left sour in the Health Board's warehouse again is not a criminal case. Valdo Randpere and Yoko Alendri cost benefits cases are not within the competence of the prosecutor's office. But in the case of Kert Kingo's expenses, this is definitely the authority of the prosecutor's office. I wonder how that's possible. Or the case of Judge Eveli Vavrenjuk, where the prosecutor's office tried to psychologically pressure it and illegally held the judge's funds. The prosecutor's office has not even blinked to the assessment of the Tallinn Administrative Court in relation to a series of violations of constitutions committed in connection with the corona restrictions. This list may be continued. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why is this possible? Because it is not really possible to supervise the prosecutor's office, because this Ministry of Justice, who is competent to do so, is simply addicted to the ideological aims of the party. In this context, I will hand over the draft law amending the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Law on Courts by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which will be supervised by the disciplinary college of the Supreme Court. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U3	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U4	Can you explain what was going on at the remote? Is this now a political manifesto for the RETURN EARTH, taking over justice? It was pretty colorful. I'm sure you know the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U5	Thank you. At the moment, we are at the round of referrals and referrals. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to speak at the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U6	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the law on courts and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Administrative Procedure Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture. All three draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U7	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence. Good colleagues, I'm interrupting the presence check. One of the co-workers doesn't work on the card. Good fellows, this card is now in order. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U8	89 members of the Riigikogu signed up, missing 12. We now come to the following point, which is the vote of the member of the Board of the Riigikogu and its dissenting opinion according to our rules. In fact, the Riigikogu Board did not reach a consensus on the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act (619 SE) at second reading during this working week. Two Bureau members considered that the discussion should take place during this working week, and one member of the Bureau opposed it. Since we do not have a consensus on the Management Board of the Riigikogu and Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Management Board, wishes to discuss this issue in this House due to § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, we must vote on it. When we get to the vote, you will be informed by good colleagues that I will put to the vote Hanno Pevkuri, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu's proposal to remove the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act (619 SE) from the agenda of this working week. Before that, of course, I will be happy to answer procedural questions. Procedural question, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Exactly the same Hanno Pevkur opinion that I would like to supplement and ask you a procedural question. Paragraph 99 (1) of our Rules of Procedure provides that the deadline for amendments to the draft law is 10 days. The Commission may shorten this, but it is clear that there must be some reasonable time. With the same law on family benefits, the Commission reduced it to virtually 1.5 days to one-and-a-half days to propose amendments. I, too, have made quite a number of amendments and, in my opinion, quite a number of substantive amendments that concern this draft quite widely. And then it must also be in accordance with § 100 (2) that the commission must allow the author of the amendments to explain his proposals before making that judgment. Late Wednesday evening, the invitation to come to the Committee on Social Affairs to explain its proposals came. I wrote that Thursday afternoon I was on a mission and couldn't attend. I went to the Social Affairs Committee today at 10:00. As a result of this longer debate, I managed to begin by introducing these amendments. However, I could not introduce them all and the Members of the Commission were not allowed to ask questions from me. Please tell me how you see this situation. In such a case, is it possible to put a point on the agenda if the procedural conditions have been violated to this extent, i.e. a member of the Riigikogu has not been able to present all his amendments and the members of the committee have not been able to ask their questions? I feel my rights have been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U10	Thank you. The answer to this is that it is always the decision of the lead committee itself and the decision-making power in the way it deals with these issues. And, of course, it must also be approved by the Commission. A procedural question, Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll pick up where my colleague, the Gridship, left off. I myself attended two of these meetings of the Social Committee, both last week's own and today's own. In addition to all the problems referred to by my colleague, the Gridship, I would also like to ask whether there have been any complaints to the board that there should be protests that, in addition to other procedures, there has been a specific violation of a number of paragraphs, several laws. Through a joint vote on amendments, people have been given the opportunity not to present their own amendments, even if they were actually present on the Commission. Has the board discussed it or is it going to discuss it? If we now put it on the plenary agenda, for example, I would certainly like the President to convene the Bureau and discuss it before we put such a flawed bill on the plenary agenda. So I really ask the President to ask for this legal assessment, even if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U12	Thank you, good questioner. Yeah, the board has received three protests, as far as I know, regarding the 619 SE. Lucky Hillak sent a protest, that's what we discussed with the board today. A member of the board is on a business trip, but he was able to participate through communications. And the decision was that this protest would be sent to the commission. And, of course, we asked that the decision of the commission be informed of the decision of the Riigikogu. Two more protests have been received, one by Mart Võrguship and then Tiiu Aro. They've been received today at 14.40 and 14.50. These protests have not been discussed by the board. Shall we discuss it? Yeah, we'll discuss it when the board gathers. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U13	Thank you. I actually have a question about the same committee and the draft procedure that took place in the same committee. In addition to the above, for example today, the question of whether the Commission supports the incorrect amendments tabled by the Reform Party was put to the vote. That in itself sounds absurd because, in fact, the only common denominator of these amendments is that they are proposed by one party. There was no opportunity to talk about any of these amendments separately, which they were wrong, but neither was it given the opportunity provided for by the Rules of Procedure, that, in the event of a formal error and indeed if an amendment had been tabled incorrectly, which would not be a miracle to say honestly in the time limit for such short amendments, the author would be given the opportunity to correct it. But even this option was considered and not proposed. Basically, what happened in the Committee on Social Affairs was that all the amendments that the Reform Party had tabled were voted on at the same time and that a large proportion of them were reported to be incorrect and voted out at the same time. That's my question, too. I can go and write a protest. But is it necessary to submit a separate written protest to the management board or to send an own-initiative reply suddenly to sum up the matter and say that this is not the way to actually know in advance in the Riigikogu? I am pretty sure that this bill will be rejected when it reaches the Supreme Court and it will be said that it has not been adopted in accordance with the procedural rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U14	Thank you. The lead committee shall have the right to decide on those procedural decisions and procedures at the level of the Commission. It has been a working form of the Riigikogu very strongly that we do not interfere in the decision-making process of the committees and also in the procedure. Now you mention it, or you said it would be sent back in court. I am sure in this sense that Estonia is the rule of law and that the court will make its decisions on the basis of the separation of powers. What their decision is whether or not this complaint will come, I don't know what to say. For information to you and all your fellow officials, there have been more protests by Yoko Alender 15.05 and Timo Suslov has also filed his protest 15.04, nor have the board been able to discuss them. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U15	Thank you, good Chairman! I have a procedural question, and I'll pick up where the good Valdo Randpere was just about to be sent back from court and the President won't sign. And my question specifically concerns Hanno Pevkur's disagreement. In this Chamber, the opposition has repeatedly pointed out that Hanno Pevkur is wrong, but he has taken advantage of his authority in this way and position and still pushed through his own will, and the court has found it quite differently, the President is back on this matter. I asked you once that if we cannot simply be there for his proposals, but how can we prevent the corrupting of the work of the Riigikogu? Because it is this Hanno Pevkuri who gives me the impression that he is making incompetent proposals to paralyse the work of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U16	In this case, his proposal is based on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, § 16 (4), which then says that if there is no consensus in the Management Board, then the member of the Management Board has the right to ask for a vote in this House in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. So that's what he's based on. Jürgen Ligi, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U17	Thank you, Mr. Ratas! I would point out that you are not an ordinary secretary who simply forwards letters and is in favour or against something, whether to pass on or not, but you are another man in the country who should have some discretion. Otherwise, the Bureau should not be asked what to put on the agenda. In this case, you could rely on your choice of information that you are offered. I will provide you with such information that I made a dozen very substantive proposals in the family law, which describe family policy choices and budgetary limits which are not taken into account in this draft, which is in dispute here. And I wasn't even given a chance to introduce them. I was given two days to prepare them. I prepared, I don't know that they had any problems, but despite this, I was not given an opportunity, I was not invited to a committee that would have been adequate in any way. And even today, when I went there, I was not given the floor to justify them. At the same time, the Commission had taken a negative decision on the proposal or on my proposals. That I could not explain, but the Commission already took the view that it opposed them. How do you feel now, as another man in the country, how is this now in line with the parliamentary procedure and with the legislation and the enormous burdens that the country is facing? In general, it is government law to decide on the budget, but hundreds of millions go here without the government's opinion. In general, a member of the Riigikogu could have the right to change the laws, but he was not even given the opportunity to present his ideas. What do you think is good now and is it somehow respectful to you, if you have simply bluntly supported putting this bill on the agenda over your head, without waiting for any substantive reasons, without waiting for impact analyses, without even waiting for the government's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U18	Thank you. First of all, I say that our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, § 101 (1) provides that the commission prepares a new text for the second reading, including all the amendments taken into account and the amendments made by the commission itself. If your other part of the question was related to how I comment on this budgetary aspect, then it is that once the Riigikogu has made its decision, then of course the legislative authority will say so and the executive power will have to take this into account. In conclusion, the budget framework is always put and brought to this Riigikogu by the government, but the budget is adopted by the Riigikogu, by certain restrictions or restrictions that we can change here and cannot change. Now, please, a procedural question, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It seems to me that this bill is one of the most serious procedural violations of which you have also had a protest. What happened was that the Commission and, as colleagues describe, despite the fact that this Commission sitting was extended to 1 o'clock initially, despite protests, the Commission's working time was extended to half-two, although it was extended, of course there was no time to listen to any substantive debate. The members of the Riigikogu left sadly and frustratedly because they had come, sat there for hours and waited to speak, but failed and left. But what was, as a fact, a crime and probably also a violation of the rules of procedure, is that procedural decisions, namely that the members of the Riigikogu have telephones that show the right time, the procedural decisions were made after the expiry of the extended time of the committee. We also recorded it in pictures with the Chairman of the Group, Mart Võrguship, which we probably have. I understand that the Commission was guided by its own remote clock, which showed three minutes less time. Since this clock was wrong, the procedural decisions necessary to send the hall were taken within it after the Commission's working hours. If it had been done an hour after the Commission's working hours, you would say that there is obviously a serious infringement, even a minute after the Commission's working hours is actually the same procedural violation. I think that, as Chairman of the Riigikogu, you should think seriously about this matter, because if such a violation were to take place in any other committee, we would probably not be discussing taking the floor this week. I think that a procedural infringement of this kind alone could cause the bill to fail at a later stage. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U20	Thank you. First of all, I think I am trying to guess what you asked for, but I want to say first of all that, when we are talking about putting this House on the agenda that you actually asked for, the Social Affairs Committee, by its decision of 2 June, has tabled this 619 SE on the agenda of the plenary with its decision and, on this basis, this draft is legally on the agenda. I think your question was linked to today's Commission decision or decisions, and the question was whether or not they were made before 13.30. According to my information, the chairman of the committee has told me that I have asked him. I was not in the committee session, and I have not checked these watches, as you say, that you had several watches to compare. A procedural question, Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U21	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have, I am asking for your assessment of precisely these procedures of the Committee on Social Affairs. I got there at 11:00 to defend my proposals. Around one o'clock, just before that, the decision was taken to vote out all the amendments tabled by the Reform Party in a single package. And actually, then I finally got up and asked if I could take the floor. After all, I came here, I waited two hours, and I want to defend my amendments. It's just that they went numb, they didn't answer, they just went numb to other things. I'm asking for your assessment of this behavior. But I also asked for my amendments to be put to the vote in the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U22	Thank you. Once again, the committee will always decide the procedure and their votes itself. The governing board of the Riigikogu does not intervene. But, of course, every Commission meeting must be dealt with and steered in such a way that people get their opinions and say and, ultimately, decisions are taken, just as they do in the Commission. Whether your amendments will be put to the vote, I cannot allow that from this remote control. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, if there are at least two supporting votes in committee, they will be put to the vote here. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U23	Thank you, Mr President. I am also one of the unfortunate ones who, due to very short notice, failed to present their amendments on Thursday. And I've had a few questions, procedural ones, and I would ask myself to explain them. Firstly, here the Mart Võrguship asked you whether it would be possible to deal with this draft in this Chamber if not all the parties had been able to present their amendments. You responded in such a way that it depends on the Commission's decision. And secondly, it has to be, yes, approved by the Commission. Hence my question: could such a decision be contrary to the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu or to any other law? I'd like an answer to that question. Now, second, I would point out that Riigikogu meetings will end on most days, on the days of the week, at a time, exactly at a certain time. And I've never, at least in my experience, seen a trial going past time, because by law, he has to fit within that time. Now, in general, does the same thing apply to the Commission? This question was now dealt with earlier by a good colleague, Kristen Michal, but he, after the extension, was concerned that the decision was taken after the extension, but I am asking precisely about the end of the term of the committee, which is stated in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Rules Act, that the session will end at one o'clock on Mondays. Are the decisions made outside one o'clock legal? Are they even valid? That is now for the second question. And therefore, the third question, of course, is this: if it turns out that the questions or decisions taken outside the working time of the Riigikogu cannot be legal, what are the possibilities of a member of the Riigikogu for his work if the committee violates the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu? What are the odds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U24	Thank you. First of all, I say that, let's say, a similar debate has been held on the Board of the Riigikogu in mid-January last year. And at the time, the decision related to how to deal with and how to deal with the Commission, and the decision was that, given the Commission's very wide right to self-regulation in this case, the Commission was discussing the Constitutional Affairs Committee within the framework of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. And that's the broad self-regulation right. Now, in answering your second question, yes, you are absolutely right that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which provides for a working schedule for the Riigikogu, provides that on Mondays permanent committees, with the exception of the European Union Affairs Commission, will complete their work at 1 p.m. and 13.30 will begin the work of the European Union Affairs Committee, special committees, investigation committees and problem committees. And here is really the opportunity, if the Commission so decides, to extend its session half an hour until 13.30. And in answer to the question you asked, if you feel that your rights have been violated, where can you turn? One way is this. After all, we have had protests today, and I said that we also discussed one protest that came from the Member of the Riigikogu, Mr Hillak, and the Bureau decided that it would direct it in this case to shape the opinion of the commission. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U25	Good manager! I have this procedural question. Mr Jaanson was concerned that you had not been able to present your amendment, so that it would have to be something to decide. But I have the same problem. Mr Pevkur is currently on the front of Ukraine and is not among us. If we start voting now, he's outnumbered, he can't vote right now and there's no one voice coming. I hope he comes back from the front alive. Should we not postpone this week's vote so that Mr Pevkur can also defend his rights by pressing the right button?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U26	Thank you. We do not have this requirement that if one member of the board, or two members of the board, protest or oppose the decision of the board that they must definitely participate in the work of the Riigikogu plenary. This requirement is not derived from any law. And now, if we postpone this vote, it could basically mean that the entire agenda will not be processed, because we have this appeal upstairs. Another procedural question, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ernits, of course, was wrong; all the colleagues were there to present their proposals. They were as sure as the furniture in this room and were asked to go out, they said that there would be no time for the substantive introduction of these proposals. But now I come back to my first question. You said nicely that you didn't look at the clock and that you were told that the time was right. But we have, you see, the advantage that we do not only have the naked argument that the protocol was said by my colleague Mölder at the time of the remote, which was 13.28. When we began to challenge this time and, together with Mart Võrguship, we fixed by technical means that this time of remote control was wrong, in fact, the time of the Commission meeting was already over. And now I have a question for you, as Chairman of the Riigikogu, and I am sure people will be interested in what happens if it turns out that the decisions to send procedural documents to the Chamber, i.e. the procedural decisions taken on the basis of the discussion of the entire draft, do not comply with our rules of procedure. The result?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U28	Thank you. The result is, if anyone protests, it has been done wrong, these procedural decisions. I didn't say I didn't know what the bells were, but you know very well that I didn't attend that meeting. So it's really hard for me to get involved. I hope, and I cannot directly give the floor to the chairman of the commission, what was the time then. According to my information, there was no time problem, you say there was a problem. There is one possibility that the Commission will then review this decision, which is also one option. Siim Pohlak, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U29	Thank you, Mr President. It's a question of procedures. I was there at the meeting and I ask if any protest has come to you about the behaviour of members of the Riigikogu by the chairman of the committee. Three reform parties were literally verbally ravaged there for an hour and a half and at the same time insisted that we have no time to do anything and why they did not get the word. Just basically screaming. I thought I'd seen everything, but I thought it was worse than that. The chairman of the committee was taunted, humiliated, all of this. I ask whether the chairman of the committee will be able to protest against this behaviour if the Riigikogu ambassadors behave in a completely unworthy and inhumane manner in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U30	I believe that we all wish that we behave with dignity, and then we can ask fellow officials, if they are unworthy of someone, to ask them not to do so. So, of course, this is an opportunity. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Just the last answer to me I would like to clarify in one detail. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the working schedule of the Riigikogu provides, or the working schedule of the Riigikogu's committee provides that the session ends on Mondays at one o'clock. You argued that it could be extended to half a second if the Commission decided so. I would like to clarify how the Commission must decide on this. Is this the agreement of the majority of the Commission, or does it require the unanimous agreement of the members of the Commission as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U32	Thank you. This will, of course, require a Commission decision and will be the majority of the votes in favour. Siret Eagle, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U33	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Here, on several occasions, my colleague, Mr Michal, has pointed out that, as regards one of the points in this draft, concerning the power to sign procedural documents, whether or not this vote was in time at 13.30. In order to take this debate down, I have, Mr President, a suggestion that if you took a break and the Social Affairs Committee could meet in an extraordinary way so that we could vote on it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U34	Thank you. Yeah. I would first of all like to thank you, Mr Michal, for bringing this to your attention several times, and also Mart Võrguship was and the chairman of the committee. I think it's important that we really take this argument down. I'll take the manager's break. I hope that's enough of 20 minutes. And then the Social Affairs Committee, I understand, is meeting in this recess. Is it okay if this gathering takes place at the back of this hall? They want it to take place at the cafeteria. The Commission shall be invited to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. I'll announce the chairman's break for 20 minutes. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U35	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. Since the Social Affairs Committee asked you to meet, I have a request to give the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee a microphone to tell him what you did. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U36	Thank you. The Social Affairs Committee met exceptionally. As regards the Family Benefits Act [draft] 619, we made a decision authorising me to endorse the procedural documents. We have reaffirmed this decision, and it exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U37	Thank you. I also thank the members of the Riigikogu who previously drew attention to this. Sincerely. It was important for the procedure to be in order and for everyone to understand it in the same way. A procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U38	Good manager! I wanted to point out that maybe we should look at the bells of different committees and other castles so that they show one time. I have observations that not everyone shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U39	Yeah, thanks! I share, I do. In some places, bells really do show the wrong time, I've noticed it myself. So I'm sure at the Chancellery I'm asking you to take this job right now and make sure the bells show one time and are right about where the clock is and where the clock is. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U40	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, you are asked for more fundamental things than those you are comfortably supporting here, such as what is the right time. No, we're doing a different thing. And there hasn't been, no matter what's been said about the corner, some Vallavoli collection of Kose where people are pushing and calling out. We didn't yell at the Commission. The whole situation was that the chairman tried to suppress attempts to speak and explain his proposals. We were procedurally excluded from presenting our proposals. Weird decisions were put to the vote, such as those in favour of illegal proposals by the Reform Party, without specifying which proposals are being discussed. I'm sure mine weren't. Moreover, we have always had good practice, and this is also indicated by the fact that if there seems to be a mistake in the proposal, certainly there was one, then there will be an opportunity to correct it. But we weren't even given a chance to explain. Please do not be disturbed by this time story; this is certainly not the main thing that we are pointing out. As President, however, I would like to ask you to take seriously those procedural violations that have been brought to your attention today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U41	Thank you. I'll answer those questions if there are any. Previously, Mr. Networker and Mr. Michal asked if the time was right when these decisions were made. And that thing was done. I mean, I want to say so much, Mr. Ligi, that there have really been more protests, I watched the e-mail, I have not been able to open them, the protests have come, and I am sure these protests must be discussed by the Board of the Riigikogu. Rene Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have heard here on quite a number of occasions today how the ambassadors have confirmed that they have not had enough time to table their amendments, and so on. However, a few weeks ago, there was a situation where the Committee on Monetary Affairs then gave time to present amendments for 0.6 seconds to a few seconds. As chairman, how do you feel that this was a reasonable time? What's with the... The same ambassadors who today insist on the fact that they have been subjected to too much are then very clearly of the opinion that 0.6 seconds to discuss one amendment is a perfectly reasonable time. Can you tell me what such a wonderful rebirth has been happening to some ambassadors in the meantime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U43	Thank you. We all understand these issues and the problems of reviewing these changes. But I believe that the President of the Riigikogu also held this line that it is the decision of the commission on how these matters are dealt with. Ülle Rajasalu, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We all know that the reputation of the Riigikogu has not been very high lately, and the use of the word of some members has certainly contributed to this: 'I am sending you to hard work', 'bright', 'nothing'. Today, too, I heard from Mart Helme that I was a nasty person. I don't know if it's hate for women or what's going on in this party. How do you feel about that? The Minister is also said here on the remote: your presentation was disgusting. In fact, do we have some ethics committee or what to do about it so there's no such use of words in this room?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U45	Thank you. I believe that the directors have told both the members of the government and the members of the Riigikogu all along, when the use of words is not polite, that they have asked us to respect each other, that it is important. And do we have anything? We have good practice for a member of the Riigikogu. That, in my opinion, must certainly be the case. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President. I come to the conclusion of the work of the committee sitting on which you argued that the committee sitting could be extended by a majority of votes. First of all, I thank you for this break: I also used it myself a little to [explore] this yellow thick book, which explains the law of the House and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. If I may, I quote the paragraph concerning the work of the committees: 'The time for the beginning and end of the meetings of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu on Mondays and Thursdays is set with time precision. If the agenda is exhausted, the sitting may end earlier and not longer." In the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu as a whole, as well as in the explanations in the publication that has not been commented on, half a word has not been said about the extension of the sitting of the committee during the meetings of the committee. The work of the Commission sitting can be further carried out in an extraordinary session, but certainly not by extending it. I ask again: if the sitting of the Commission is extended by a majority of votes, can it be considered legal? Or may the Riigikogu be extended at a time free of any other work in such a way that the members of the committee agree consensually? Or the third one: the yellow book doesn't cost anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U47	Thank you. I think that this yellow commentary book, the executive edition is important and certainly from there we learn quite often. Now, I have to come to § 47 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, which talks about the working time schedule of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 47 (2) provides as follows: on a proposal from the Chairman of the Commission, the Commission may designate ordinary meetings at a different time from that laid down in subsection 1 of this section, provided that the chairman of the committee coordinates the meetings with the members of the committee at the latest at the first meeting of the working week. Paragraph 3 of this section states: the time of the meetings of the committee referred to in subsection 2 of this section shall not overlap with the working time of other committees and political groups and the Riigikogu provided for in subsection 1 of this section. If we take paragraph 2 of this section, which I read to you and paragraph 1, paragraph 1 speaks of this: on Monday from 11 a.m. to 13 a.m., the work of permanent committees, with the exception of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and indeed, the next work schedule will be 13.30 when it comes to the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the special committees, the committees on investigation and the committees on problems. When we are talking about an extension, it is not consensual, it is really a majority of votes in favour in the Commission. Kert Kingo, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U48	Thank you! When my colleague Jürgen Ligi said that he was all polite in the Commission, in the Committee on Social Affairs, and no one insulted anyone, I would point out, on the contrary, that the members, alternates and guests of the appointed committee of the Reform Party specifically obstructed the work of the Commission, spoke out loudly over everyone else. If there was a place to vote, instead of voting, the monologists began to be held, and it was simply said alone, no one else was allowed to speak. It was certainly not polite to talk loudly over others. I would like to make it clear to Rajasalu that it was really embarrassing to listen, I don't know if he heard actively there, but he didn't want to hear Valdo Randpere, when the chairman of the committee tried to call order, called it a cana dance, which was anything but a polite expression, was a very insulting expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U49	Thank you. I will also tell you that we must respect one another, good colleagues, that is important. I really did not attend the committee session, you know that the members of the Riigikogu's board are not members of the committee. So I agree, as I said to the previous questioner, that the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu must be taken into account in our conduct, so we are really polite and respectful. Jüri Jaanson, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U50	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased that you have also pointed out, in relation to the working timetables of the Commission's sittings, a paragraph or a paragraph concerning the reshaping of their work to another time. And I am very pleased that you have read the word 'coordinated' there, that this can be done then by the chairman of the committee in coordination with the other members of the committee. At this point, I would point out that I strongly disagree with you that coordination does not mean a majority of votes in favour. And I'd like to ask you how you understand that. I understand this directly so that it needs to be coordinated with the last one of the Members of the Commission. And I disagree on that right now. Please record this. Although it's going to be a verbatim anyway. How do you comment on whether to coordinate means a majority of votes in favour?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U51	Thank you. It's in the verbatim, as you said, and as far as I know... It may also be different, but, as far as I know, work practice has been that, if extended, it has been extended by a majority of votes. Kristen Michal, please! A procedural question. And I thank you in advance for this time of day that it was fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U52	Yes, it is absolutely pure joy that the quality of the Riigikogu's legislation was still improved in cooperation. But, of course, the problem remains, because I am just here to my colleagues' mid-term comments, I listened to them half-eared and would draw attention to a few things. The problem in the Commission was, of course, not that colleagues so badly wanted to talk about each other, but that colleagues wanted to present their own proposals. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] As Jürgen Ligi described here, people came and did not really get the chance, and this naturally caused sadness in many. And the specific thing that Mr Kingo calls a chicken dance is called a chick dance in Estonian, and this was done by my colleague, Tõnis Mölder Valdo Randpere, during the substantive speech. That it should be recorded in the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U53	Thank you. A procedural question, Ülle Rajasalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U54	I wanted to answer about the same chicken dance. I was there for two hours, and in my day it wasn't called a chicken dance. What happened back there... But what I'm saying is that Mrs. Kingo wasn't in that room. You were on the web? But you didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U55	Thank you. I have a request. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I would also respect each other in this Chamber. Who was, who wasn't, what kind of dance you're dancing with, I can't appreciate it. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am really glad that you brought the talk to the work practices of the committees. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Namely, this practical experience I myself have had is that I have been a member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu for a long time, and in our time this topic was discussed in the committee, so when was it supposed to be in 2016? When, then, the Commission's work must continue and at what point it will end. So I have a very big request to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, its secretariat to take the experience of this same work placement out of the various committees and compare them with each other. Because I cannot agree in any way that the word 'uncoordinated' means a majority in favour. And I think so, I am clearly of the opinion that the Commission's work on Mondays can last until 1:00 a.m. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And the extension can only continue if it is really coordinated with every single Member of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U57	Thank you. Yes, we're taking out these internships, and I'm asking the office to send these internships to you, Mr. Jaanson. When it comes to the word 'coordination', this coordination can in principle mean two things. Coordination can also be negative, can be positive. But we'll take these internships out and the office will let you know when this job is done. Peter Ernits, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U58	Good manager! The protocol here was that, in the case of Mr Kingo, Mr Randpere used the term 'chicken dance'. And now, for the protocol, I quote Randpere as the leader of a friendship group between Thailand and many other friendship countries: Asian entertainment workers break...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U59	I'm sorry, good waitress! I'm sorry, good questioner! There's a noise in the hall. I'm asking anyone who has any other issues to do it outside the hall. Thank you, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U60	Thank you. I will introduce you to what is happening in Asia, where Mr Randpere is at home. The Asian entertainment industry wonders about how to come out with something so ridiculous that it would be accompanied by a horse dance. Now the Chinese have managed to do something stupid enough for us here in Estonia and another nine... million people on YouTube to notice, talk about cana dance. So, in believing this, with his Asian experience, Mr Randper has clearly tried to ridicule the members of the Riigikogu and the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U61	Thank you. I have a request that, if I may, we come back to this plenary session of the Riigikogu on these different forms of dance: the Monday session of the 17th working week. We are currently trying to discuss this agenda and go to the adoption of the agenda. Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd rather have a procedural remark. I very much welcome my fellow Members from the Reform Party who have spoken here about the serious problems associated with the time for tabling amendments and the practice. Kristen Michal talked about it and Jüri Jaanson. I would remind dear colleagues that we have been good students. Looking at this practice, we really haven't done anything wrong anywhere, because we're doing what you did. You should look in the mirror and still realize that all you're doing is all this is learnable, it's applicable. So the internship has been shaped by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U63	Thank you. I have a request for this procedural question that, if we can take them back once and for all, it has been here, to show and try to come back to this agenda whenever possible. Anti-Semiamets, what do you have now? (Anti Poolamets: "Procedural. ") Then you must put a hand mark, so I cannot give to you. (Anti Poolamets: "Yes, I'm sorry! ") I'm sorry, but I can't give you that word. Press on that handprint. Please, procedural question, Anti Half-Amets!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U64	I wanted to point out that the obstruction is a perfectly acceptable action, but not a demolition. A year ago, we just saw defamation, not violation of the Rules of Procedure, not even violation of the law, just defamation in the Riigikogu, mixing meetings, disturbing in the ugliest and lowest ways. The same thing is back again. We don't have to hire a coroner in this house. Obstruction can also be done with dignity, not by interrupting meetings. So pull yourself together, the year has gone on, all right, there is no need to make any more proposals for Russia's accession to the ruble zone. Get it together! You embarrassed me, that's enough, okay? You embarrassed me. Don't do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U65	Thank you. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, thanks! Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U66	Thank you. I've actually wanted to ask you this before. As Head of your Riigikogu, should good practices not be introduced? That most of the time in the Riigikogu is treated sensibly. Right now, we're hearing this kind of finger pointing, but you see, you did, too, and now this year was an example. But you don't do that for most years. And the descriptions that are being presented to you here are, after all, the description of those interested themselves, which, in fact, you have witnessed, you have not been present yourself. I can assure you, it wasn't a very ugly thing, it was pretty restrained. Should you not, however, introduce it as the head of the Riigikogu to say how beautiful it is, rather than the fact that Ahah. You've told me before that I know how, when this thing changed. No, it is a practice of very recent years, not a daily one, but, however, where the work of the Riigikogu is hindered, the time is delayed for no greater reason. There's also a reason in this case, but the chairman's mission could be different. Do you agree that the chairman's mission could be to introduce good practices?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U67	Sure. Now, good colleagues, let's start preparing this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote Hanno Pevkuri, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, proposed that the second reading of Bill 619 amending the Family Benefits Act be removed from the agenda of this working week. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U68	With the result of 27 votes against 59, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, we are at the end of the agenda. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the approval of the 17th working week agenda of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U69	With the result of 59 votes against 29 and no abstentions, the agenda for the 17th working week has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U70	Dear colleagues, we are now starting the Monday agenda. And the details of the agenda are as follows. In fact, at the Thursday session of last week's working week, we failed to read the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, and it remained in the negotiation phase. The Social Democratic Party Group has already taken part in the negotiations; Helmen Kütt, you; then Urmas Reinsalu, the Isamaa Group, then Jürgen Ligi, the Reform Party Group and Mart Helme, the Estonian Conservative People's Party took part. Do we want more speeches? It's what you want. Please, we are in the round of negotiations. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Tõnis Mölder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I think that the Social Democratic Party and a good former colleague have initiated a draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, undoubtedly a right and a good draft. I think that the support of the first child should be increased to equal levels, starting with the support of the third child, i.e. to EUR 100, I think this is a very right step. I am pleased that this draft is in this Chamber, and certainly the Centre Party, as a group, will support the completion of this first reading. However, I must admit that the way the Social Democratic Party and their Group acted last week when it was Children's Protection Day, 1 June, was the day when the Social Democratic Party actually abandoned the children of Estonia. In this sense, I think it was very vile and ugly of them, because there really was three excuses, the great will of the four groups to do something comprehensive in Estonia, to do a really big reform of Estonian families and children's benefits. What the Social Democratic Party is proposing here today is only one step. We actually see this picture as a much more complete picture. I'll come back to what this bill might be like, as you suggested, it's just one solution. But why do I say that you betrayed the families and children of Estonia? It is that you withdrew your signatures from this bill. Yes, I know, as far as I know, not all the people of the Social Democratic Party have subjected themselves to this dictatorial leadership and still left some signatures under it, which is the 619 SE, which we will have here on Wednesday to read the big hall. But the fact that you found some kind of political pretext to give up support for children and families, I say again, I do not consider this to be exemplary behaviour. It is particularly notable that you did so on 1 June. But why I think this draft is a good one, and why I think that in fact this draft should be looked at more widely in general and perhaps any amendments should be made to this draft, is certainly that, as I said, very many political parties, with the exception of the Reform Party of course, support the first increase in child support to EUR 100. Here we in Parliament have a clear and concrete common understanding. The second point, where the will of a majority in Parliament exists, is the support of a single parent. That is why the Social Democratic Party said that they could not support this bill. Fortunately, there are Members among your group who actually understand the substance of this draft in a much more detailed way and do not go for political points. I was very pleased today that the representative of your own group in the Committee on Social Affairs supported precisely this proposal to double the support of a single parent, and that, as an amendment to the Social Committee in the Riigikogu, I hope, will arrive in this large hall on Wednesday. Yes, we know that the Reform Party has decided to slow down Parliament's work, but I am nevertheless optimistic that it will come to their senses once again, and we can still reach the substantive amendments on Wednesday's working day. The other part that is missing from your bill is that you have not, in any way, honored families that are rich in children. I think it is important that we really increase support for families with children. Families with children, with children growing between three and a month, could receive this support from EUR 300 to EUR 700. And the second point: if there are seven or more children in the family, this support could have been given to EUR 900. What is most important about this bill coming to this hall on Wednesday is that if today, in the case of family benefits, if a third child becomes an adult and falls out of this system, the family immediately loses the right to receive child-rich family benefits. Our wish has now been for three political groups, the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE, to ensure that this system works more smoothly, i.e. that every child's adulthood is reduced by one third. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U72	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U73	I have something else to say to the Social Democratic Party. That by one third, that is, this system is significantly smoother and better. Now, the other side, which I think is a very, very fundamental change, and here I would have expected, in fact, that all five political groups that we have represented here in Parliament will say yes very clearly to this draft. This is an indexation of support for a family rich in children. And precisely why indexing the support of a family rich in children? This is because once again we recognize these families, these large families, where three or more children are raised. And so that it is not more of a political caption, but we actually come to the aid of these families, regardless of what our economic environment is, and this increase would have been made every year. The second problem, which has always been criticised for this bill, which is now coming to this big hall on Wednesday, said why you are doing it in the spring, why you are not doing it in the autumn, when there are discussions on the state budget for next year. Dear colleagues, this decision must be made in the spring precisely because both the Ministry, or the Ministry headed by the Reform Party, have said several times that if you do not make these decisions today, this draft cannot be implemented at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, but will be delayed by some half a year. Perhaps we must give this entire Parliament a very clear political wish on Wednesday to show what we want to change the future of Estonian children and families, what the system will be like, so that our authorities can really realise it by 1 January 2023, and then on 1 June 2023 it would also be possible to implement this "one third, one third, one third" or a smoother system. Unfortunately, it's that day, I understand, to everyone else, a holy day, not a Sunday. But I know that, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party cannot appreciate this day, and that was indeed the day that you betrayed Estonian families and children. That's all for short. Once again, I ask that this draft be passed through first reading, and I once again ask and place it on the hearts of all the political groups to show the statesmanship to come to the aid of the children of Estonia, the families of Estonia, in this large hall on Wednesday. And once again, I also have a sincere request to the Prime Minister's party: really take this obstruction back and show the statesmanship once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U74	Thank you. Good Helmen Hunter, I see you have a microphone or a wish to speak. I think it's a reception. I am simply saying that § 70 (1) says that if the person of a member of the Riigikogu or the views contained in his or her speech are concerned in another speech, the President of the sitting may authorise this member of the Riigikogu to speak in response. I assume you're relying on one of them. Although I don't know your name was mentioned. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. As there is only one representative of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Social Affairs, and that is me, the previous speaker specifically referred to this, to the vote. I do indeed have this procedural or not procedural but substantive comment and reflection. I very much hope that Tõnis Mölder did not represent all the ambassadors of the Central Party, because I have already heard during this very sitting that some people are embarrassed and they assume that this was not a speech by the Group. But on the details: probably a good co-worker, Tõnis, doesn't know that on May 12, the Social Democrats launched a single parent's proposal. Not to mention that the same draft was launched on 22 March, on which a good fellow official should give a speech. I am very, very sorry that the amendments tabled by the Socialists, which also included indexation of child support and single parent support, were voted out in the Committee on Social Affairs. Luckily, they're coming to the hall to vote. We have every child counts, including one child, two children in the family counts. And the indexation of these subsidies would certainly also ensure that parents can cope more easily if they are faced with financial difficulties. Each child reads just don't have third and fourth children unless the first and the second are born. Actually, this thing has gotten really ugly in that sense. This policy is being made with the face of children, but actually with a completely different motive. Social Democrats have always supported the well-being of families with children, and not only the well-being of children, but also the well-being of single- and two-child families and children with one parent. So it would be nice if it stayed on record. That's how it's gonna stay. And I am really sad that a good fellow official treated us unfairly with such a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U76	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 560. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year. That concludes the first reading and completes the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U77	We will move on to the second item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let's start preparing the vote. Good fellows! I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 559 SE. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U78	With the result of 65 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law 559. That concludes the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U79	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the inquiry submitted on 2 May 2022 by the members of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saare, Helmen Küti, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Ivari Padar, Eduard Odinets. The inquiry bears number 133, the inquiry is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Heljo Pikhof, to introduce this inquiry, which bears the number 133, to the public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! A credit market survey was completed in March this year on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, which revealed that the number of people in Estonia who are struggling to repay small loans has increased. The number of consumer loans has increased by 300000 contracts until the end of 2021 and, in addition to the volume of loans, there has been a huge increase in the market over the last 10 years in a wide range of types of fast-run companies offering loans at high interest rates and with a pretty high share of sour loans. People who have several different high-interest short-term consumer loans taken from high-speed credit companies, which cannot be repaid in time, are first and foremost in difficulty. It is important to point out that the number of debtors was also significantly increased by the corona period, where, for example, because of severe restrictions, especially in the service sector, many people lost their jobs and income. If we look at the figures again, the average amount of debt is EUR 10229 and, in the case of a third of debtors, the amount of debt is between EUR 1000 and 5000. Analysis of the debtors of the enforcement proceedings revealed that the debtors of the enforcement proceedings are 72297 in Estonia and enforcement proceedings have been initiated against 412782 debts. To sum up, we have a large number of fast-lending companies that lightly issue short-term consumer loans at predatory interest rates and produce people in difficulties. There's a lot of confusion that comes from the recovery of loans and debts. If the activities and supervision of the financial sector and bailiffs are governed by law, for example, the collection of so-called sour debts is carried out without any restrictions or supervision. Many fast-lending companies sell sour loans to collection companies, which is why the state does not have an overview of debts due through collection companies. Incasse companies add huge procedural costs and late payments to the debts of persons in default, and there are rare situations in which debts that are already outdated or previously paid by a person are recovered. Such illegal activities by collection companies have led many people who do not have the opportunity to go to court to defend their rights into debt slavery. The illegal action taken by the collection companies to recover debts may lead to the loss of a person's ability to apply for a mortgage from a bank, to rent equipment from a construction shop, to lease a car or to change the telephone operator. It is estimated that every other household in Estonia may be in the hands of the collection companies. In view of the above, we ask the Minister for Finance to answer the following questions: What are your proposals for the organisation of fast-lending companies operating in the credit market? Do you think it would be necessary to impose additional advertising restrictions on high-speed credit firms? When and how do you intend to regulate the activities of the collection companies? Is and how do you think the availability of debt counselling services should be increased? How can we improve people's financial literacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U81	Thank you very much. I now ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimpus to answer the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U82	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good heirs, members of the Riigikogu! These questions, as the heir also pointed out and explained, are likely to be largely related to a well-informed study prepared by the University of Tartu almost two and a half months ago, shortly three months ago. And since this final report, which is really nearly 300 pages, is so voluminous, it contains dozens of recommendations, I can immediately say, as an introduction or introduction, that it is a little early to say in detail what specific legislative changes are going to be based on this study. The review of this final report and the drawing of conclusions from it are currently underway in the Ministry of Finance, and probably in autumn it will be a time when we can really talk about more detailed possible changes. But now to your questions. The first question was what proposals we have to organise the activities of high-speed credit companies operating in the credit market. First of all, of course, it must also be said that all consumer credit providers, whether banks or not, are subject to the same rules for all creditors. A separate term, such as the law on fast-borrowing, is currently not used; such a separate category does not exist within the meaning of the law. If consumers are granted credit, whether they are banks or not banks, all of them must comply with exactly the same standards. All of them must respect the principles of responsible lending, that is to say, to provide pre-contractual information to consumers, to assess the consumer's creditworthiness and other consumer protection requirements must be met. In other words, these so-called non-bank creditors will not receive any discount on compliance with these requirements. The most important step in ordering the credit market was certainly taken at the end of 2001 when the Law on Credit Institutions and Credit Intermediaries entered into force. In fact, the same study, which you also rely on or refer to in your inquiry, one of its aims has been to analyse that, now that seven years have passed, how this law has applied in practice. And it has to be admitted that if we look at non-bank lenders, they have a much larger amount of overdue loans, taking into account the entire loan portfolio. One part of this explanation relates to a different sense of risk. On the other hand, the difference is certainly linked to the assessment of creditworthiness. The law currently in force leaves the creditor, credit providers, with considerable flexibility and ease. The law provides for quite general guidelines, each credit provider himself must establish his own internal procedures for specifying these valuation principles. And in the case of banks, it certainly seems that there is a better overview of consumers' financial obligations and therefore it is probably easier, more convenient and probably cheaper to carry out more detailed background checks, unlike small lenders. The University of Tartu survey suggests that this situation is not very different in Estonia and is not much worse than in other countries. If we compare the debt ratio of Estonian households, the data actually show that it is lower than the average in the euro area. If we compare the loan-to-asset ratio, the ratio to the median, then in Estonia it is lower than on average in the euro area: if on average 22% in the euro area, then in Estonia it is 15%. And if we compare the loan-to-income ratio, it is more than three times lower in Estonia than in the euro area: 72% in the euro area, 22% in Estonia. But it should not, in itself, in any way create this situation or give the opportunity to reduce the problems that exist. In fact, it is certainly not possible to say that we have no or very, very low number of debtors. In any case, there is a problem. As has been said, the University of Tartu's credit market survey made 31 different recommendations. It includes both proposals for amending the law, but also, for example, strengthening supervision or saying, more reasonable and proper enforcement of existing rules and restrictions. It also includes softer steps, such as further limitation of recovery costs, improvement of debt counselling services, to which the heirs also refer in their enquiries, and certainly also the development of financial wisdom. These are part of these recommendations. And since this is an area that concerns the administration of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs and also the Ministry of Finance, we are working on the relevance of these recommendations with all the relevant institutions and various ministries. As I said, it is likely that autumn will be the time when we will come to concrete proposals together with all the parties involved. And I also think that it is reasonable to first analyse very thoroughly what can be done within the framework of the existing rules, i.e. what can be done, what steps can be taken without necessarily having to change the law. This concerns both the strengthening of supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority, but certainly also the promotion of financial literacy and its promotion of financial literacy is precisely about paying attention to debt issues. The second question was whether additional advertising restrictions would be necessary for high-speed credit companies. I am now going into an area that is actually the responsibility of another ministry directly. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is directly involved and responsible for this. And to answer for them, I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is in the process of developing a plan aimed precisely at reviewing the same part of advertising for financial services. But there are already pretty strict rules for advertising itself. In essence, it can be said from 2015 that the advertising of consumer credit on TV and radio is essentially prohibited. But where's the problem? The problem is certainly the relatively aggressive advertising practices of some creditors, where, for example, via direct mail, consumers who have already borrowed are invited to borrow more. Such direct mail congestion can certainly be considered particularly problematic in the case of credit and gambling addicts. In fact, such credit providers' behaviour can be seen as an unfair or aggressive trading technique which, in fact, already under consumer protection law, our consumers should be protected from. So once again: the introduction of new regulations is an option, but in any case it is also necessary to review how the existing provisions can enter into force better. Once again, I also come back to the fact that, of course, consumers' own awareness can also be raised here, so that, in the event of aggressive and unfair trading practices, they know that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority can provide assistance. The third question: how do you intend to regulate the activities of the collection companies? In addition to the proposals arising from the survey, we are also in the process of transposing the European Union directive, which specifically regulates the activities of providers of collection services. It has to be taken over and by the end of next year, by 29 December 23. Such a date, not 31 December, but 29 December. Once again, we are preparing this draft together with our cooperation partners. This concerns both the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Justice, as well as market participants. Perhaps, looking ahead to this draft, Member States are left with such a relatively large margin of discretion to extend the scope to the resale of overdue loans issued by non-bank creditors and 'functioning' loans. According to the current draft law, the providers of collection services are also subject to authorisation and are also subject to public supervision. Perhaps then this supervisory authority will probably become the Financial Supervision Authority, but here I say that it is indeed likely, because this draft is still in the development phase. In addition, it also intends to lay down consumer protection rules. Once again, the credit manager must provide the borrower with very clear and non-misleading information. This is just an example of this. Question 4: whether and how should the availability of debt counselling services be increased? Now I am going to the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Ministry of Social Affairs, because debt counselling is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs. But we have really worked very closely with the Ministry of Social Affairs on this subject for at least over a year. Municipalities are currently responsible for providing debt counselling services. Data from the Ministry of Social Affairs say that last year this service was provided to 2273 people through municipalities. However, if we look at how many municipalities offer it at all, last year only 56 municipalities received this service, i.e. more than 20 municipalities do not actually offer debt counselling services. Similarly today, we have reason to believe that the quality of service is relatively jumpy, that it is not even in all municipalities. The debt advisors certainly have a wide range of knowledge from their background. And from May this year, very fresh in essence, a little over a month, new requirements have been in place for debt advisors. Both the debt advisor training scheme and the professional standard have been updated and may also contribute to the harmonisation of this quality of service. At the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a separate cell or working group has been working together, which for example has set the goal of mapping the debtor's road map, i.e. mapping which services are offered to people at what stage. And we've been betting on it from the Ministry of Finance. As well as the Financial Supervision Authority, which has completed its new strategy, one of the target groups of this new strategy is also debt advisors, who will now receive such support regularly in the form of seminars and trainings from the autumn of this year. And the final question: how to improve people's financial literacy? The financial wisdom strategy is a new version of the financial wisdom strategy approved last year, which will be valid until 2030. At this stage, the focus of this strategy is indeed young people in order to do as much as possible as early as possible to avoid the problems that people with lower or weaker financial wisdom may encounter at a later age. Coordination of financial wisdom is one of the very important things in the Ministry of Finance that we pay attention to. Two people are committed to it, and they still share money wisdom with adults, not just schools. So I will take this opportunity to say that anyone who feels that they can gain wisdom in money is worth turning to. This counsel and wisdom will gladly be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U83	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U84	Thank you. I'm asking about a subject that is, like, directly related, but it does involve a little bit of other loans, home loans. We had a presentation by the Governor of Eesti Pank here just recently, where he also admitted that interest rates are likely to rise. And in this connection, in fact, families who have taken home loans, especially perhaps families with many children who need more square meters, will inevitably at least some of them still find themselves in some difficulty in servicing these loans or will have to substantially reduce other costs. That my question is that, first of all, do you also see the risk of families getting into difficulties and, in such a situation, could it not be helpful, for example, to increase family benefits as a measure to help families cope better with their higher home costs and interest rates, among other things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U85	Thank you. When talking about people with payment problems at all, I saw that the latest data I received said that we had 101000 debtors with payment problems in Estonia. This is not just about housing loans, but it really is about all of these people together. And now I apologise if I repeat whether I said that in my reply, indicating that if we look at, for example, the users of debt counselling services, there have been 144000 of them in different years, in recent years. This is a pretty large number, it shows that people who, in the case of debt counselling, are probably trying to avoid the accumulation of bigger problems, that there are quite a lot of them, and people are conscious of a beautifully important concern, which is certainly a good thing that they turn to the counselor, then there is a greater likelihood that they will also receive support and help. I think that by offering such specific financial easings, it is certainly the most important thing to find the target groups that need it most. And I just don't have the data in front of me right now, so I'd risk telling you on the run whether and which target group is at the highest risk. Whether they are, whether it has anything to do with the number of children in the family, I'm not sure to the end. But certainly any additional financial support will certainly make it possible, or let us say, to alleviate the situation of people who would otherwise be in a difficult situation. So I guess it's going to have to be more detailed, like disassembling and seeing where that support is most needed. Again, of course, it would be nice if we were able to prevent these problems early in order not to ease, but to avoid at all this concern and a situation where people find themselves in difficulties with debt or with loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U86	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U87	Thank you. Dear Minister, The same study that you are talking about, this same study, has a socialist question built up. And it says here, in this study, that, according to the credit market survey, more than a third of debtors have one debt, but the proportion of debtors with five or more debts is the same. On average, one debtor has 5.2 debt and an average debt amount of EUR 10229 and so on and so forth. If you take a loan from a bank, you will be carefully asked whether there are debts, which are the real estate situation and so on. But now the fast-borrowing companies. How are they? Is one house given ten times as collateral to different fast-lending companies, or how exactly is this situation? Please enlighten me if you know!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U88	Thank you. As I said in the introduction, it is still the duty of any creditor to observe this principle of responsibility. But the truth is, even at the level of the law, this freedom of decision has been left to a really large extent. After all, we do not have specific limits at the level of the law, which must be based on, which means that when we talk about the principle of responsibility, it is applied in a very wide range. When we are talking, for example, about consumer credit, there are market participants who themselves follow and have internally set the limit that this obligation, or consumer loan obligations, should not exceed 30% of the income. But there are also those who say that this limit is 80%. In other words, they provide additional consumer credit even if a person already has 70% or 75% in relation to repayments. So this limp is pretty big right now. One of the problems referred to in this same study is precisely related to this. If you look at the interviews on which the survey is based here, for example, there is one of the proposals that has been made here that basically limits should be set which set the maximum amount that a person's income could make for the repayment of consumer loans. Perhaps, in comparison, I would remind you that a similar threshold has actually been set for housing loans. This is established by the decree of the Governor of Eesti Pank, which says that 50% is the limit for the loan payments we have, and this is valid from March 2015. It is true that in the recommendations of this same study, surveyers say that this specific introduction of limits in legislation is not supported by the study team. This study has found that it could have a market disincentive. And the researchers say that it is difficult to establish a single rule that fits any situation. But I guess that's one of the examples that we need to analyze and think through when we analyze this study, because it's still really this rift I was referring to, if it's 30 to 80%, it's a very large range. When it comes to a family where 80% of the income goes back to a consumer loan, it sounds like it is probably only a matter of time before problems arise in such an example. So we are aware that there is a problem and a problem. How it's best to solve it is now working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U89	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U90	Thank you. Madam Minister! I myself have been such a side helper in a process where a person ended up in a situation where, independently of him, he became the victim of a loan and went through that gauntlet next to him, which was quite complicated. It turned out that a member of the Riigikogu had to go out to the Director General of the Police Department and to the Chancellor of Justice. But the unfortunate people left the apartment. And what did I see in this process? I saw that in some situations, the hand doesn't know what the leg is doing in the country. So in this case, if this study is done and the analysis of the study comes in the autumn, then I see that there is one thing that is: in this whole area there must be someone clearly leading or responsible party, because there are several ministries, in addition to the local authorities. Someone must take such a leading role in this situation (Director: "Time, Ivari!") to deal with this matter in order to make it easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U91	Thank you. I think it is a good thing, in itself, that such a person had a Member to turn to, and that this situation was resolved, but of course he should not be so that he himself is stuck with solving the situation and always needs this type of help. It should be considerably easier to solve for a person. But actually, the same question you're asking, already there are several different sides. One thing is the clean side of supervision, which concerns creditors, another is the advice in a particular case, when the problem is already at hand, how to get out of this situation and what steps to take to prevent the most difficult developments, to which you yourself referred. But in general, I agree that there is always a lot of issues where there are many parties, the most logical and easier to find and put in place one responsible person, who is a coordinator, to avoid people being run from one institution to another endlessly. One coordinator who manages and is responsible for this whole process. So I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U92	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! You have very interestingly pointed out the statistics where the local government, 20 municipalities probably or some figure that does not offer this service, the rest of which it is, in what amount. At the same time, it is well known that these debtors are very often ashamed to turn to the local government, and they are ashamed that they have come into such a situation. I now ask for free legal aid from the state. This volume has been reduced. There is, however, an opportunity to contact the Ministry of Justice and, in the meantime, there were various projects that applied for money, law firms that provided such services, but they are gradually reduced. And that's actually a problem, because in this fight, man is definitely weaker. And I do not think that all 101 members of the Riigikogu should assume the role that each of them represents someone, goes to the Chancellor of Justice. It is clear that we will do this as far as anyone turns and is, but it does not make sense, because not everyone has such a so-called member of their Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U94	Thank you. Well, what I'm saying here is, yes, it's the way you describe it. Of course, it is not reasonable for everyone, or it should not be the case that support or assistance is received and that the solution to the problem can only be achieved by addressing the Member. It should be much easier, as I said before. However, I do not currently have these legal services or how they will be carried out for years and how much specifically this year, for example, for the legal service provided by the state, we have been allocated free legal services. I'm not just gonna take a chance to start calling that number right now. However, I would point out specifically that the debt counselling service is, of course, well-specific and therefore certainly this possibility of using the specific debt counselling service in addition to this free legal aid is certainly important. But yes, what you referred to at the beginning of your question is also pointed out in the credit market study that such a purely human factor plays its role, that people do not want and do not dare to admit that they are in difficulty, and probably in local governments this barrier may be even higher, because there are situations where everyone knows everyone where admitting failure requires very great manhood and can be humanly difficult. So in this sense, it can probably not be the only way to get this help and advice. But I think that, once again, these two things should logically work together: free legal service, but still bearing in mind that the debt counselling service is specifically maintained and available
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U95	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U96	Thank you. I understand a major kind of study is underway. And it is quite natural that the minister answers that we wait for the results, analyse and see what we are going to do specifically and what we can do. But here's the question. What is your personal position? After all, we have seen over the years that fast-borrowing companies inevitably tend to be profit-seekers, if you now express it in plain language, that is, the interest that you are asked for there is unreasonably high. This business is often based on it, and it exploits the ignorance and weakness of a person, thus luring him temporarily to solve his problems and thus creating an even deeper and bigger problem, which we have just recognised here on all these indicators. In such a situation, is it justified at all to have such services advertised publicly? Do you think there should be such an ad anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U97	Thank you. Research is complete. In this sense, research we are currently working through, it really was completed about three months ago, so very fresh. The advert is that, in essence, at present, this advertising option has survived on the Internet. When we talk about TV and radio, it is still not possible to make such a consumer credit ad on TV and radio, it is essentially prohibited. And that time, when these new rules were put in place, when I remember correctly, this argument was that consumers in general are still able and able to search for information on the Internet, and if this possibility is maintained on the Internet, it is also more likely that they will be able to make an informed decision using different ads. It was feared that if any advertising was banned, including on the Internet, there would be a situation where people would not simply receive information about more favourable conditions. That was the reason. Now, should any adverts for consumer credit be quite banned on the Internet? I'd be careful making such a specific assessment. As I said in the introduction or in the answer to the question, the problem is indeed such aggressive advertising techniques, and they should, in fact, already be contrary to the current consumer protection law. This is a problem, and I think it has to be dealt with. But does banning any advertising always bring results? A little doubt. But I guess we just have to calmly consider the different arguments and discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U98	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U99	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. We had this happy week last week, where both Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority visited to present their annual reports. In fact, they were also able to ask questions about how people who try to deal with their monthly bills in a way and for this purpose are taking consumer credit or some fast-track credit, what are these ways of protecting them better? The Head of the Financial Supervision Authority beautifully described the positive credit register, the granting of higher fines to them, the creation of the position of the Financial Ombudsman. In fact, there are ways to intervene in addition to advertising. How is the Ministry of Finance's position, for example, on the establishment of higher fines, the financial ombudsman and its positive credit register?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U100	Thank you. The view of the Ministry of Finance in general is positive. In the case of a positive credit register, there has been a long discussion that, first of all, whether this is going to be a so-called formal register, a separate, essentially database to which creditors have to enter the data, should bear the data, or that it is essentially a data exchange between creditors. I think that the latter would certainly be much more reasonable and simpler, and there are still many nuances over which there has been a debate. Logically, this should be an exchange of data where data can be exchanged with the knowledge and consent of a person. How is this agreement the most operational, how could it be collected in the first place, whether and who, on the whole organisational side, once again, as asked by my colleague Ivari Padar, who is the one who is ultimately responsible, right? So these are the details that still need to be put in place and negotiated, but, generally speaking, the fact that such data exchange would contribute precisely to the emergence of these very extreme, crazy situations, I think that there is a general consensus on this. So, yeah, that's what we're looking at positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U101	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. But there is no wish for negotiation. In that case, we have exhausted the item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U102	We can move on to the next item. To this end, the members of the Riigikogu Eduard Odinets, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof and Riina Sikkut submitted an inquiry on 4 May about the financing of vocational training, questioning number 135. Jaak Juske, a member of the Riigikogu, introduces it as a representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good people of education! We have recently spoken in this Chamber of the Riigikogu about funding concerns in many areas of our education. Now our vocational training institutions have also been hit by a very serious financing crisis. And it's read more about it and more about it in the Äripäev newspaper in its April 28th issue. I quote: "Today, frankly, we do not know how we will come to zero by the end of the year," said Director of Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa, Eveli Kukklane, on the budget. Unfortunately, they are not the only vocational school that is making every effort to save and delay high costs due to the rise in energy prices. Kuklane said that the increase in energy prices and statutory wage increases have had a significant impact on the school's livelihood. After all, both minimum wages and teachers' wages rose. Although the salary increase was planned for the budget, according to the Director, the budget number did not increase compared to the previous year. " Similar examples can be found in a number of Estonian vocational training institutions. In view of these concerns of our vocational schools, the Social Democrats have presented to Mrs Kersna, Minister for Science and Education, a total of six questions concerning the financing of vocational training institutions. We are interested in what the average wage for teachers in vocational training institutions today is and how much it has increased in recent years. What is the forecast of the salaries of these teachers, then of vocational school teachers for the coming years? How much has the increase in energy prices increased the corresponding economic cost of vocational training? How does the government plan to reimburse these extraordinary additional expenses to schools? And how does this budget deficit affect the quality of vocational training institutions and the education they provide? So we're asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U104	And now the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, will answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U105	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and member of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for this question because, as a field of vocational education, there has been an unthankful lack of attention within the education sector. Now that I have been in this position for almost a year and a half, I have taken a closer look at this subject, went to a number of vocational education centres and also tried to get a picture of what we could actually have in the future. But perhaps we will be able to discuss answers to specific questions on these issues. But anyway, thank you for that! Okay, but let's get to the questions. First, the question: "What is the average pay for teachers in vocational training institutions, and how much has it increased over the past year? "The average monthly gross wage of teachers in vocational education and training was EUR 1593 in 2020 and EUR 1596 in 2021. The increase was 0.2% and I would remind you that this was the year in which the government decided not to raise the minimum wage for teachers, and this was also very clearly reflected in the salaries of teachers in vocational schools. In 2022, the average salary of vocational training establishments was EUR 1653. If we look even further back now, in 2017, for example, the average wage in national vocational training institutions was EUR 1300 and now, in 2022, EUR 1653. "What is currently forecast to be the average wage for VET teachers in the next financial year? " On 17 May, we had the first minimum wage negotiations for teachers with the participation of the Alliance of Educational Workers and the Union of Cities. There I presented the Ministry's plans for the country's budget strategy and next year's state budget negotiations. By 1 June, we had to send our wishes to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Education and Research is going to agree on a proposal for a country's budget strategy to take a step towards achieving 120% of the national average wage by 2025, at least by then, and that means both a minimum wage increase and an increase in the teachers' differentiation fund. It is now known to be 17.1% and I am going to apply to be brought back to 20%, as it was in previous times. Last year, the government decided to increase the minimum wage for teachers at the expense of the teachers' differentiation fund. The money was raised from one national budget to another. But it is important that school leaders have flexibility in the differentiation of teachers' salaries, and this fund provides it. So I very much hope that in 2025 we can say that the teacher's average salary is 120% of the national average, i.e. 1892 euros. The third question: "To what extent has the economic costs of vocational training institutions increased on average over the last year? " Indeed, these economic costs have increased considerably. The total economic costs of all funding sources of VET institutions in 2020 amounted to EUR 24.1 million and the same cost was EUR 27.3 million in 2021. These amounts shall not include VAT. Question 4: "How and to what extent does the government intend to compensate for the rise in energy prices for vocational training institutions? " On the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, we have mapped out the extra costs of education, which have come from increased energy costs. The total heating and electricity costs of vocational education institutions in 2021 increased by 54% compared to 2020, amounting to EUR 1.7 million. The need for education to compensate for the rise in costs between 2023 and 2026 is 2.75 million euros per year. It's every year. In discussions on the state budget, we had to prioritise various applications in the field. As you certainly know, funding for higher education is one of our priorities, then the pay of teachers and also the implementation of the VET performance facility. These are the three things that we will certainly be applying for additional funding in the debate on the state budget, as well as increasing educational resources. But I think that all these increases in energy costs we should look at in the country together, not in a way that each area seeks it separately. There we should probably agree on how to agree in the state budget how these higher prices will be compensated. So in my letter, I also described to the Ministry of Finance what these needs are, what these shortcomings are. I hope that we will also find solutions during the discussions on the budget. Question 5: "If today the VET managers have a choice, whether to raise their employees' salaries or to cover increased economic costs, which one do you suggest they prefer? " The pay of teachers must certainly be increased; that is not a question at all. When economic costs have increased, most vocational training institutions, with the exception of two, are state-owned, state-owned schools, in a way or another country will help to cover these costs. I'm sure no school will be left in any final trouble. We'll find these tools to help the schools. And I very much hope that, in the longer term, the implementation of the performance facility, if we get six million euros from the additional facility, will also help vocational schools to do better. And the sixth question: "How does the budget deficit affect the quality of education provided in vocational training institutions? " Certainly, if these shortcomings are large, they also affect the quality of education. There is also a parallel to higher education in this area, where the area has long been underfunded, one way or another, it will, of course, also be reflected in the quality of education. However, if we now compare the cost in state secondary schools and vocational training institutions, for example, the cost of this bounty is higher in vocational training institutions, because it is also more practical, and perhaps even more varied in some way, this bounty is higher, but it is still smaller than the ideal. It is said that the cost of a vocational training institution could be 1.5 of the bounty price for general education. We don't have that kind of intercourse today. That's the smaller difference. However, in any case, if we do not make fundamental changes in vocational education and training, we will not reconsider the mechanisms of vocational education and training, and if we continue to do so and not receive additional funding, the quality of vocational education and training will certainly begin to decline. But I will do my utmost to prevent this from happening, and I very much hope that we can finally implement the performance facility in the financing of vocational education, which is, by the way, the form of funding for vocational schools provided for by law for years, but which has never been implemented. I find it awkward that we have not done so. Let's try better this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U106	And now the questions. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U107	Thank you. Madam Minister! If, in general education schools and upper secondary schools, such a continuing issue is the issue of special pedagogies, assistant teachers, solving specific educational needs, how far is it a problem in vocational education, and in what way has he found a solution in vocational education in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U108	Thank you for your question. This is a very big problem, because many children with very different educational needs enter vocational education and these are children who need a much more individualised approach. For example, at the end of last week, I was at Räpina Gardening School and I talked to the headmaster and teachers there, and they also said that they mostly use personal studies for each child to get to graduation so that he could get his certificate. There's a very personal approach. And given the lack of resources that we have in the field of education, we need to critically review whether this resource, which we have, is being used effectively. We must admit to ourselves that today's vocational education and training is not the vocational education that we had 10 years ago. Today, two thirds of the students in VET centres are adults. They go not to vocational schools on a daily basis, but to periodic training or further training. Two thirds are adults, and one third are children and young people who have come either after receiving upper secondary school education or after ninth grade. So when I go to these vocational schools, what I see mostly is that we have big, fancy, modern rooms with modern technology, robotics opportunities, programming learning opportunities, labs, welding workshops, everything-all there is, but what there isn't, there are people. And in my mind, as our education development plan actually says, we should still take steps towards greater cooperation between vocational education and general education. For example, while attending the Vocational Training Centre in Valgamaa, I heard that the head of the Vocational Training Centre in Valgamaa has proposed to the local primary schools that you come to our house and carry out work education here, or we will carry out your work education. Their opportunities for teaching work in a variety of ways are considerably greater than in general education schools. But it hasn't been done. Or Sillamäe, the same way. In Sillamäe, I made suggestions because the school house is proud, modern, large, which would accommodate 700 children in the order of size, so that we could bring both the Sillamäe Gymnasium and the progymnasium to this Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa. All children could fit in and receive a wide variety of education, as well as greater choices already in primary school. Coming back to your question, yes, there is a shortage of resources. They certainly don't have enough special educators and other support specialists, but they don't come from anywhere in the mass. We must take into account that they are few and therefore their services need to be used more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U109	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good madam minister! I have two questions. It is a pleasure to hear that the government plans to allocate additional money to schools next year, then to vocational schools among them, to cover economic costs and high heating costs. But these schools already have big debts from the previous heating season. How does the government plan to help schools pay off this existing minus? That's one question. And what's nice is that it's finally set the goal that in 25 years, the teachers' average wage should be 120% of the national average. But what is the state of play of the current negotiations next year's plan to raise the salaries of teachers, including vocational teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U111	First of all, I will raise this issue in government discussions to get additional funding for this year's heating costs. Whether or not this money comes or does not come, I cannot give it to you right now, but this concern is simply so understandable, these costs have been so much higher and, unfortunately, we still have a situation where we had to cut economic costs in general in the field of education. And in the Ministry of Education, this is a situation where economic costs are real school economic costs. We have saved schools today and have not gone to cutting their costs, we have cut more from everywhere else, but we have not cut the economic costs of schools. And that makes it more difficult to help schools today, given the internal reserves in the field of education. We just don't have any more reserves. Not to mention that all the construction costs have increased so much, but we are building schools now. Everything that has been able to channel the price of the increased construction, we have directed it there. So this is a very complicated situation. But now, when it comes to teachers' pay, by 2023 we have proposed that the minimum wage for teachers should rise by 14%, i.e. to 107.7% of the national average. The minimum wage for teachers could be EUR 1570. The average national wage is estimated to be 1749 and if we add this minimum wage to this 20% differentiation fund, it should come to 107.7% of the national average, i.e. EUR 1884. And given that we have really had such high inflation, the great effort that we made that last year's teachers' wages for this year to raise more than 7% of their inflation have just eaten up so much. The pressure of wage growth on both teachers in education and in other areas will certainly be very high and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U112	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U113	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I would actually ask you about the subject that you have already touched on in response to Ivari Padari, namely the integration of vocational education and other levels of education. We have a network of vocational education institutions in terms of proper infrastructure and, in fact, a very good regional coverage. What are the plans or ways to encourage cooperation between general education and vocational training, but actually also in adult education and when we talk about lifelong learning? This does not mean that all people should travel to Tallinn and Tartu, I do not know, to language courses or to develop digital or general skills. After all, it could be arranged more conveniently near home. But what are the current plans in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U114	Thank you. In fact, adult learners go to different vocational education centres across Estonia. For example, when I went to Hiiumaa, there are practically no locals in Hiiumaa vocational school, only those who have come from the mainland. We can discuss whether it is good or bad, whether this school is needed there under the conditions of such a limited resource, so that continental people can go to a comfortable, really very beautiful environment to study, to improve themselves or not. We have convened a special vision working group in the Ministry to hone through our current vocational education situation and also offer a vision. And we know that in the development plan for education we really have a goal of the principle of educational centres, where there is a "one-door" policy, where a child enters a school that combines both state secondary school and vocational education, and then, according to the wishes of the child, he or she can move towards a more academic direction or more vocational education. But today's situation is that we haven't even been able to make a pilot where to do it and how to do it. For example, the model of performance finance, which has long been agreed and which was also largely the initiative of employers to become part of the law, is one of the criteria for cooperation with general education schools. We know that higher education institutions are already working actively with general education schools today to address young people so that they come to their universities to study. And actually, that is exactly what we would expect from vocational training institutions to actively address, in my opinion, this part of the progymnasium, in the seventh, eighth and ninth grades. In the case of these young people, we know about the development psychology that Eve Kikas of Tallinn University, one of the founders of school psychology, says that this is exactly where a young person is prepared to take responsibility. But we're not giving him responsibility in his education system today, and that's why he's not going to learn or, I mean, he's willing to take responsibility when he gets his choices. But our education system currently does not give a child any rights of choice in terms of progymnasium. And then he goes to high school where he has to choose between 50 optional courses, and then we wonder why they can't make it, why they can't finish these courses. So I think that, in general, we could move in the direction that VET or VET centres cooperate more closely with the pro-university section, offering electives, offering the same for the whole technology education. As far as I'm concerned, they could really be in the same house physically in some areas. It might help to make more of these career choices, to make more informed and perhaps to lose such a clearly inadequate reputation of vocational education today, that there can't be learning and there are, I don't know, bad teachers or whatever. In fact, we have excellent vocational education centres with excellent conditions, where good teachers are motivated. I think it is actually a resource that we have not used in general education, we could use it more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U115	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U116	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would have the courage to think that the schools I'm involved in my field, these four schools, are also engaged in the award of an adult invitation. I think that is very grateful. And since these adults are able to add value to themselves, it is also very grateful. So that's a good thing about that. But I'd like to ask. This was the result of funding. Based on these same schools, what kind of meters could they be? And does it also take into account that all these schools have many buildings, parks to maintain, means there are other infrastructures, whether they can be taken into account or whether they are taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U117	Thank you. Indeed, this model of performance finance has not yet been implemented. I very, very much hope that we can implement it, because it is also a very high expectation for employers, because perhaps increasing this system of performance finance will also motivate vocational schools to make even more effort. But what does this model take into account? He takes into account the drop-out rate, he takes into account the share of nominal-time graduates, he takes into account, as I said earlier, cooperation with general education schools and then also, for example, the application of job-based learning, as well as the number of graduates becoming employed in the field of study. The purpose of this system is precisely to encourage VET centres to cooperate more with employers and to cooperate with general education schools and to keep students from actually falling out of them as little as possible and ending with a nominal time. So it's kind of a motivational package. And it has been calculated that it could have a budget of six million euros a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U118	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You have answered part of the question when you were also talking about employers, but I also want to bring in the view of the unemployment fund. I'm quite convinced that you really do, going to vocational schools as well, they do an excellent job. I can say this about the two schools in my county, the sign language interpreter for children with special needs, and all this was in full use there, so that everyone can learn who wants to study, accessibility and separate roads and, if necessary, lifts, and all that they really make an effort. In the case of a unemployment fund, adults and people who, for example, are very welcome and sought by companies, and vocational schools train them according to the wishes of the entrepreneur. After this study, or when you look at it, do you see how many of them actually go to work there once they have been trained? I think every skill is positive, but how is it like afterwards, later?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U120	Thank you. If I understand correctly, you have just asked those who have come through their unemployment training. I really cannot say this, I do not have this material in front of me at the moment, but I do know that if we look at the two-thirds who go to vocational education in so-called adult education, a significant part of them is not going to work in this field, but that is what is so-called self-development training, which is also important. We know that a person who knows, a person who can learn, feels better, is happier and more contented. Surely the opportunity to study is important. But knowing that we have a shortage of skilled workers, the interest of the state is, of course, that, in addition to the happy people, they are happy to learn, that they still go to work and that the training directed at them would also pay off in the sense of the employer. But I don't have the exact data. I ask my colleagues to investigate and send.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U122	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. First of all, we have these proportions of vocational training and upper secondary school in common sense, and that would also mean very important changes in funding. But I ask one specific question: these boxes are there, not always, but how much do vocational training institutions have to beg sponsors for all kinds of resources and assistance? Do you have an overview?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U123	Thank you. Actually, I wouldn't call it begging. On the contrary, it is mutually beneficial for both parties to cooperate. I know that painters paint with some particular company colors, can try different colors, labels are out, whose colors are learned. Or potters use certain stones to learn. It's still a good deal for both parties. I don't see anything wrong here. In itself, some of our vocational schools earn a perfectly good return, such as the Luua Forestry School earns a profit. On Friday, I went to Räpina Gardening School, and Räpina Gardening School also earns revenue from the sale of its plants. We have a number of schools that actually make a profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U124	Yeah, but there's only one question you can ask in your question. Yeah. Now we've run out of questions. Can't ask any more. Thank you. We can negotiate. But it's not recommended. Then I will close the negotiations and close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U125	From here on, we'll move to the free microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to register a free microphone for speaking after a hammer hit. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U126	Dear President and colleagues, even those who leave! Today is such a remarkable day. The coalition is not yet known where, under which government Estonia will move, but I will tell you what I saw on Sunday. I came to this house for a minute, and suddenly I got a call from the security police saying there's a bomb in the house. And, incrediblely, the house was closed, and they started looking for a bomb. And when I found out who planted the bomb, I usually heard no one say anything about it, I don't know, but they said someone did it. In a little while, someone young social democrat. Then I said I had my colleague Kaljulaid's office a little away, should I go outside? 'Cause when the booze goes on... He's got young people going there, Social Democrats like that. Well, I have this colleague Järveja's office sometimes when we blow up, maybe Järveja will. But I went outside, the helicopter was hanging up here, and I was wondering if this was a new approach. That the Social Democrats have already announced that they have withdrawn their signature on June 1, and now they are going to a new government with a bomb or grenade. Well, a good colleague of Secretary General Odines said that the young are, the nerves are over and must be understood by them. That's funny. I do not know whether all young people, and especially the leaders of the young social democrats, are so exhausted that they are about to announce that the bomb will be placed in the Riigikogu, even at such a sensitive time. But that's it. We're actually, yeah, in a wonderful time. In a wonderful time, there's a prime minister today, a ruler in London, accepting a great prize. Iron lady, as they say. The Iron Lady. But what are the records of this Iron Lady? I thought he'd actually made quite a lot of records this year and a half. Two highs with corona, he has taken Estonia to the world map as a world record twice, right? On one occasion, he has achieved a world record of helping Ukraine, both in military and non-military terms. And if you remember, these columns as a ratio are, let's say, if our column is that large, then the United States has its own on this remote control about its knees, Latvia and Lithuania are much lower. So he has actually given everything away from himself or, rather, from Estonia. And thanks to being connected to the vessels, if more is given to anyone, they'll be taken away from somewhere. So he's actually looked out into the country first, but he's forgotten about the domestic stuff. And it's kind of a record. On top of that, he's gonna get the title of the Iron Lady and the prize in London today. And what's more is the fourth record. I read Paul Krugman, a Nobel laureate column from a foreign newspaper a few days ago. That was a very interesting story. And there he described the world record of inflation and the current situation. Estonia was there, nominated, with absolute priority and Germany and France with 5.6 and 7%. Where are we today under the leadership of the Iron Lady? We have reached the fourth record in the few and a half years that our Iron Lady has led the country. And now if we look at a possible coalition with the Iron Lady and also the Social Democrats, maybe it's a new style. Or perhaps the young leader of the Social Democrats, whose nerves are weak, maybe he did not agree with what Social Democrats Lauri Western Forest was, as we know, the leader of the young Social Democrats at some point in time. I don't know. It would be interesting to know what...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U127	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U128	Yeah, that's all I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-06_U129	Now, there's no more free microphone requests to speak. Then the hearing is adjourned. See you tomorrow!
