ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U2	Before launching the agenda, we have the address of Ms Kondratjuk, Vice-Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament. Mr Verhovna Rada Vice-Chairman! It is a great honour to welcome you to our Riigikogu. The relations between Verhehovna Rada and the Riigikogu are very close. More mutual visits have taken place in recent months than ever before. Each visit has opened up new opportunities for cooperation. Estonia started supporting Ukraine even before the war broke out, and we will continue to do so by helping to restore your country to the war against the crushed. We're your back. Long live Ukraine! Long live Estonia! Now for Verhovna Rada's vice-chairman, Olena Kondratjuk. Please! We have simultaneous translation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U3	Dear George! Dear deputies of Parliament! Dear Estonian brothers and sisters! [[Let's hear it.]] It is special hour for me, Olena Kondratjuk, vice speaker of Parliament of Ukraine to be here in the Parliament today. It is special hour to address you and the people of Estonia on behalf of the Parliament of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in the Ukrainian language. (Turns towards the interpreter) Please, translation. It is a special honour to address you, the Estonian people, on behalf of the Ukrainian parliament and the Ukrainian people, in Ukrainian language, which Russia wants to denacify, but actually destroy with the Ukrainian people. That is why I want more European nations and the world to know, listen and respect the Ukrainian language, which will soon become one of the official languages of the European Union. I warmly thank you for the opportunity to address you and the entire Estonian people from the tributary of this Parliament at the same time as Ukraine is fighting the heroic fight of the 77th day for its existence. Dear Speaker, you were the initiator of the fact that, for the first time since 24 February, it was the spies of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia who came to Ukraine, and despite fighting near Kiev and the threat of bombing, you came boldly to Ukraine to show solidarity to the Ukrainians. It was then that we felt the hope that Ukraine would not be left alone against Russian invaders and that we would not be alone in this fight between evil and good. On behalf of Raada of Ukraine, I would like to express my gratitude to Estonia for all the support and assistance you offer, from arms and humanitarian aid, political support, the policy of sanctions against Russia to the creation of the United for Ukraine, or the U4U network of MEPs. During those long days and nights when Ukrainian bridges were bombed, violence was used against women and children, innocent people were tortured, raped and shot, and other atrocities were committed by Russian occupiers, all of Europe and the world became an unheard of crime, the genocide of the Ukrainian people, carried out by Russia, an eyewitness. It's all happening in a horror movie, but it's happening in the heart of Europe in the 21st century. It must be spoken out loud. The world must know about the genocide against the Ukrainians, and you better than anyone else will help us to bring the truth into [the world]. I would like to thank your Parliament, which, on 21 April, first acknowledged the crimes of Russia against Ukraine as genocide in the world. Similarly, Estonia was the first in the world to recognise the Holodomor as a genocide against the Ukrainian people in 1993. Now Mariupol, Butša, Hostomel, Irpin, Borodyanka, Kramatorsk, Kharkov, Chernihiv We try to hold back tears as well as to gather anger. I want to tell you about Vyacheslav, a boy from a multi-child family in the Donetsk region of Ukraine. At the age of 18, he became a father to his four brothers and sisters. Their mother died in Vyacheslav's hands after they were shot in Russia, they remained orphans. His last words were: I'm fine. I can tell a lot more stories like that, including six-year-old Vlad in Butcha. His mother died of exhaustion during the occupation, and the boy brought a habit to his mother's grave so that her mother would not starve. [I want to talk about] the 15-year-old girl in Popasna, who, with the feet shot through the bullets, took the pain in defiance of the car to a safe area by severely wounded adults. None of the adults could drive anymore because the occupiers had shot up their cars. That fifteen-year-old girl took the wheel and drove as long as she could until they were rescued. Saved by Ukrainian soldiers. We do not want this to happen again in other European countries. That is why we must stop the bloody war and genocide committed by the country and the people who have been engulfed by the rascism, or the pandemic of modern Nazism. We, the people of the free world, [for whom] man's life and dignity are the greatest values, must unite and stop this Putin's mass. Our friend Estonia proves every day that he is in this fight with us. We are grateful for the consistent support for the investigation of the crimes committed by Russia and, in particular, for cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Criminal proceedings have already been initiated in Estonia to prove war crimes committed and crimes against humanity in Ukraine. In Ukraine, we very much appreciate Estonia's principle of principle. You, [better] than anyone, feel what the Ukrainians feel, what Stalin and Hitler's occupation, repression, deportation and the pursuit of all those who fought for Estonia's statehood and independence. The mass violent deportation of Estonians carried out by the Soviet authorities in 1940-1941. In 2001 and [since] 1944 and the 1950s, as well as the Holodomor and deportations in Ukraine, they have the same roots. Thousands of Estonian and Ukrainian families left their relatives' graves far away in Siberia. And it's awful that today, today, thousands of Ukrainians have been stolen from the occupied territory, no other way to say [about it], and again taken to Siberia. I want to acknowledge the great heart and humanity of the Estonian people and those who have kept us, the families of Ukraine, women and children during the massive invasion of Russia. You have saved more than 35,000 Ukrainians. You shared all the difficulties and concerns with them, and we will always remember a meeting with tens of thousands of participants to support Ukraine in Vabaduse Square in Tallinn. Estonia was also one of the first countries to give us the weapons we really needed. Estonia is currently the top ten countries that have helped Ukraine. We are grateful for the help you have given to our wounded defenders and defenders and for the incredible support you have shown for Ukraine to become a member of the European Union as a matter of urgency. I am sure that Ukraine, with such dedicated allies, will certainly win and become a full member of the European Union. On 3 March, the Estonian Government sent its first official position to Ukraine in support of granting the status of candidate country for the European Union. We also need to think about the future that will win because my country, Ukraine, needs a comprehensive reconstruction, or Marshall's plan. The President of Ukraine, Volodynymyr Zelenskiy, initiated the global project United24 with the aim of uniting those countries that wish to help our country. When I prepared for a visit to you and prepared for this speech, I wanted to write words and lines as an invitation for Estonia to join this initiative. But you are reading our thoughts and you have already announced that Estonia will take the lead or coordinate in the reconstruction of the Zütomyr region. This is one of the best and most positive news we have recently heard in Ukraine. I would like to express my deep thanks to Estonia for its willingness to participate actively in the post-war reconstruction process in Ukraine. In this way, only true friends, such as Estonia and Ukraine, understand, hear, react, support and act. Yesterday everyone saw the incredible performance of Estonian [Parliament] Deputy Speaker Hanno Pevkur in the talent show, where he performed with the wonderful song "Brothers Ukrainians." This is a bright example that we are not only solidarity-based, but we will win together. Slava Ukrainiani! Slava Eston! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U4	Thank you very much. Now we can go to the implementation of our sitting. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over drafts and enquiries, should such a request be made. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm honored to hand over the draft law on family benefits. This bill is, in many ways, a sign. We want a monthly allowance of EUR 100 for each child, plus EUR 700 for those who raise three to six children, plus EUR 900 for those who raise seven and more children. Four of the five political parties of the Riigikogu have joined the bill and this initiative is becoming a political landmark across political parties. I know a lot of signatures are still unsigned, but they're in our hearts. I hope that in the course of the procedure we will be able to increase the number of sympathizers further. Children's benefits have never been raised so much before. Linking children's benefits to the index is a qualitative change in family benefits. The purpose of indexation is to keep the amount of support in line with the changing standard of living. The bill serves a number of purposes at the same time: it gives families with children a sense of security under shocking price increases, supports positive ivet and helps to preserve the Estonian people and Estonian culture. I call on all the political groups to participate actively in the draft procedure and to support it at all stages when it arrives in the large hall. Sincerely, I hope that before Midsummer Day, the bill has been drafted into law. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U6	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good tradesmen, guests and all those who watch the transfer! In advance of the transfer of the bill, let me congratulate and thank the Estonian sisters, midwives and the Estonian Sisters' Union on the International Sisters' Day. You are indispensable to both health care and welfare. Happy birthday, health and joy, and time for yourself and your loved ones! I hope that everyone in the Chamber will join this wish; it is not world-view. Now to the bill. Predictably, the draft has been transmitted electronically to the sitting department. The bill is initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, and it is a law amending the Family Benefits Act concerning the amount of the allowance for a single parent child. According to the current Family Benefits Act, a child whose birth record is missing from the civil status data in the population register or whose parent has been found to be a fugitive in accordance with the procedure laid down by law is entitled to the benefit of a single parent child. The allowance for a single parent child is defined by law: it is 19 euros and 18 cents, and it has remained unchanged for decades. The aim of the draft is to improve the management of the families of children with single parents and to increase the amount of allowance for a single parent child equal to the amount of child benefit for the first and second children. According to this amendment, the amount of child benefit for a single parent would be equal to the amount of child benefit currently in force for the first and second child of the family, which is EUR 60, but I hope that the previous draft [to become a law] will amount to EUR 100. We hope that this will also be supported by coalition parties, because the coalition agreement signed by the Reform and Central Party explicitly states that we will pay particular attention to uninsured families, families raising children with special needs, single parents and families with many children. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U8	Thank you. In any case, we are dealing with a child-friendly Parliament. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U9	70 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U10	To today's agenda. The first item is... Oh! Before it can be handled, we have developed a procedure. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have such a request and a question. Since today, after the end of the plenary session, a review of the amendments provided for in the Finance Committee, would it be possible for the Riigikogu's management to convene a meeting of the Bureau and also the Board of the Committee in order to draw attention to a very important fact. In fact, the Riigikogu and the President have repeatedly and repeatedly paid attention to the fact that the violation of the procedures of the Riigikogu's domestic and operational procedures, that is to say, the violation of procedural rules, inevitably leads to incorrect legislation and conflicts of rights with the Constitution. It is now a situation where we have a time for debate on amendments at 607 SE, because the Rules of Procedure provide (§ 100 (2)) that the right to present all amendments has been granted to Members of Parliament, which the Commission wants to give to present amendments, for a second on the proposal. This means how to take it: is it now allowing it or removing it? If, in fact, this is a violation of the Constitution, I believe, of the possibility of introducing a proposal. To be honest, the Commission and the Bureau could discuss this matter, because otherwise we will end up with legal nihilism and continue to break the constitution. We should somehow prevent this in order to preserve the dignity of our Parliament. Or what's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U12	Yeah, I also saw that message or invitation from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Our Rules of Procedure really say that amendments must be presented in substance in the Commission, and in principle this must be possible. Now, the Commission has relatively broad rights to organise its work. For example, the Commission can take over its own session over the Internet, and it certainly has the right to set some framework for presenting proposals. It is certainly possible to say, if there are very voluminous drafts, some time frames, that this is not the endless amount of time that has been given to each proposal. This certainly can be done by the Commission. If these frames become such that, in essence, the proposals cannot be presented after [for example] you have been given, I do not know, 35 amendments for all 35 out of a total of 1 minute, there is nothing to introduce or talk about. I agree, it must certainly be pointed out to the Commission that the amendments must be presented in substance, even if there is a time frame. Even if it is a short or compressed discussion, it can't just be a stopwatch making a kind of noise. I agree with that, and I will certainly raise it on the board. But now, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled Proposal to the Government of the Republic. The number of the bill is 555 and it is a one-reading draft that requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership. This will be introduced to us by Riigikogu member Jaak Juske. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! After a very warm speech by the Deputy Speaker of the Supreme Radade of Ukraine, and after a proposal has been made from this same panel to significantly increase our children's allowances, I think the most appropriate moment to take the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democrats, concerning the proposal to the Government of the Republic to find additional resources from the families of Ukrainian war refugees to cover the educational costs of children. This draft was launched by our group in mid-March when a new war in Ukraine had lasted for three weeks. By that time, quite a large number of Ukrainian war refugees had reached Estonia: this number had just exceeded 20,000. At the same time, it seemed that the Government of the Republic just woke up and started to deal with this refugee problem and challenge. We recall that when the war began, it had been a few days and the first refugees reached Estonia's borders, our Minister for Social Protection announced that Estonia's ability to accept only 2 000 war refugees was limited. Three weeks after the war began, that number was more than 20,000. The extra budget, this year's bill, on our tables today, was a beautiful dream in mid-March. And at the same time, the first refugees had arrived, quite a lot already, and this first burden fell on our fine local authorities, who began to accommodate these families of refugees and who incurred the costs of this process. And at that moment, our group had the idea of launching this draft decision, the content of which is briefly to find the necessary additional resources from the state budget to help local authorities to cover the educational costs of [here] children from the families of war refugees in Ukraine. In particular, we mentioned three points where this money would be needed first. This is to ensure that children of the families of war refugees have access to the Estonian language, to cover their costs, to further support the education of interest and activities of interest, and to increase the pay fund for teachers and support specialists. Each bill will take time to process. In the meantime, the government has also awakened. After the debates, the additional draft budget this year has come before us, where, let's say, some of these funds have been found, as half an egg exists, but the other half is clearly missing. In particular, the government has set up a so-called "bounty" to cover the costs of education for children from children from families of war refugees, which is EUR 465 per month for children in early childhood education, EUR 506 per month for children in general education schools and EUR 353 per month for young people in military education. The grant is due until the end of this year. And indeed, this monthly allowance must cover all the costs associated with the education of children of war refugees, its training and the provision of the teaching tools necessary for learning. Indeed, all kinds of costs are included here, from catering costs, the necessary IT equipment, the costs of study visits, the costs of learning Estonian language, of course, [ending] everything concerning the education and activities of these young people. It seems as if the content of our draft is backed up by an additional budget, but as I said, half the egg is actually missing. As it turned out, during the discussion of the draft decision in the Committee on Culture, a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research announced that the calculation of the bounty was based on the cost level of the previous year. But we know very well what has happened in the last year, where the economic costs of schools, especially in relation to the very rapid increase in heating costs, have increased considerably. We have also had inflation at around 19% in the last year, according to recent data. Perhaps, in fact, teachers' salaries fall behind the average national wage at an ever faster rate. We see teachers', support professionals' low wages increase every week, every month. As regards the expenditure on recreational education and recreational activities mentioned in the draft, one of the most negative decisions taken by today's government was still what was done at the very beginning, when 4 million euros of the local governments' interest education support cutbacks started at the expense of children. At the time, the government's argument was that local governments could get more money from the other side, so they could manage these costs. But today we see how local governments are struggling with increasing economic costs and how, in fact, the number of families that actually need this kind of recreational education support has increased, because inflation eats in families' wallets every week in large pieces. So, from this point of view, the need for additional funding is clearly much greater than what we have in the supplementary budget that we are facing today. The issue of teachers' pay, which I have touched briefly, is particularly close to my heart. I would like to remind you here that we have made a very clear promise to teachers that their average salary had to be 120% of the average wage in the country as early as last year. Let's get some fresh data. Today, the average wage of our teachers is 1653 euros and the average wage of the country is 1756 euros, according to recent data, which means that the average wage of teachers is already more than 100 euros behind the average of the country. The average wage is rising, but teachers' wages are not at the moment, so we are almost light-years away from the 120% promised. This is clearly a promise, which I think is an honor, so that the government, together with the Riigikogu, can redeem the teachers and find the necessary funds. So, as I said, the government has done half the work, this bounty will definitely cover some of the costs. But as I said, inflation, very rapid price increases eat this bounty subsidy every month and every week. Our draft continues to be topical; it does not go directly against the additional budget. And let us remember, today we are in the process of dealing with the additional budget amendments. We also have the opportunity, or more specifically the coalition, to support the opposition's good proposals, which would also increase the cost of education for children of war refugees. On the basis of all this, I would ask for your support for this draft decision of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U14	Thank you. Now the questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with everything you pointed out. Perhaps we are better informed about the capital, we have been involved in this for a long time, and we realise that, in fact, even Tallinn, with its possibilities today, we could also use additional resources, because very many war refugees prefer and want to live in the capital for understandable reasons and put their children in school here. Am I right to say that perhaps even more of this support is needed for smaller municipalities, where it has already been difficult to find teachers in schools and the cost of maintaining schools has been significantly increased due to inflation? Am I right that it's probably needed even more outside the big centers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U16	Thank you very much for this topical question. Yes, of course smaller municipalities, rural governments need more state support because there are lower wage levels and the risk of poverty is much higher. Today, indeed, an increasing number of war refugees and children of war refugees have spread across Estonia. And once again, when our draft was drawn up, the number of war refugees in Estonia was just over 20000, today the number of war refugees in Estonia is quietly approaching 40,000. As the statistics say, the number of children is somewhere in the middle of the war. So the number of children who need these education services in Estonia today, the number of children of war refugees, is quietly approaching 2 000. This is actually a challenge for Estonian society as a whole. But I think that this cost will still be small for society at the end of the evening, because it is the small contribution we can make to helping their troubled families, while the fathers, brothers and brothers of their families are fighting for the freedom of Ukraine and of Europe in this great bloody war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U17	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U18	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, As a historian, you probably know that we don't start a clean slate every morning. Similarly, during the Ukrainian war, it could be expected that teachers would make a greater voluntary contribution to teaching the Estonian language to the Ukrainians if it had not been for this two-year effort of distance learning due to the korona. But there's no way we can erase it or forget it. Now to expect that these same people, under decreasing real wages and increasing workload, are willing to volunteer to do this work over an unknown period of time, I think there is a lot to ask. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U19	Thank you. Surely in the work of teachers, the mission of a teacher is very important for him to do his job with his soul. But we want, we expect, for every job, to receive a decent salary. And in addition to these very exhausting corona years, teachers have had one whole year in which their wages were simply frozen. Indeed, today's government has raised the pay of teachers a little, but once again, from this social agreement that the average pay of teachers is 120% of that of the country, we are lagging behind today at an ever faster pace. That is why it is crucial to allocate and find this extra money and resources for the teachers' wage fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U20	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! More or less we understand that teachers have been given money to teach Ukrainians, but in very many Estonian municipalities it is the situation that there are no kindergarten places. And now that the construction prices have gone high, we have quite a number of municipalities that have planned to build a new kindergarten, for example, before the refugees started coming to Estonia at all, because there were no kindergarten places before, there has been a situation where no kindergarten house can be built. Maybe there's nowhere to really put these kids. I understand that the state's today's position, the government's position, is that you manage yourself, it's just a municipal cost and see [your]. Would you like to comment on this situation within the framework of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U22	Thank you. As I said, the refugee crisis has certainly significantly increased the costs of municipalities, which has been a very serious challenge for municipalities. Indeed, the government-paid bounty also includes early childhood education and care, but this allowance does not cover the costs incurred by the municipality in creating these childcare facilities. I think that this is a perfectly legitimate question and would really require additional support from the state to local authorities, who have been very good and have helped them with the worst of this crisis, let us say, taking the first blow and dealing with their families wholeheartedly and wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U23	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I think this draft is very good, because it is now creating a situation where municipalities can also deal with the unfinished and unsolved issue of the state, i.e. adult language learning. Procurement has just been announced, people want to start working, want to learn the language, and many municipalities themselves have started to bear the costs and teach the language through the adult upper secondary school. According to this draft, there is also a plan to increase the salaries of teachers and support specialists. We know that the issues of mental health are particularly acute in the Ukrainian refugee war and their children. You have certainly been in contact with your colleagues, both teachers and support specialists: how much has their workload really increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U25	Thank you. That's a good question. I certainly owe you a very accurate overview, an answer, but when you read the stories of the families of war refugees, which have also come to the public, it really seems that this is a very real need, a very serious concern. The bounty paid today must also cover these costs, but, as I said, this bounty must cover all the costs associated with the education of children from the families of poor war refugees. I certainly dare say that the real financial need is much, much greater. And, as has also been said, the bounty is based on the cost level of last year, which is clearly in the way of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U26	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U27	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Jack! It is understandable that we are trying to find additional resources to further teach or teach Estonian to refugees in Ukraine. But we also know very well that Estonia's concern is that we do not have teachers to teach Estonian, especially when we are talking about a specific methodology that requires teaching Estonian as a foreign language, which is also different from teaching Estonian as a second language. These specialists simply do not exist, and public procurement is also very struggling to find them. Do you think that we should take this issue a little bit wider and, against this background, increase the resources to quickly support teachers already in existence in a programme in order for them to be able to teach? This need, which has arisen, several thousand children at a time, cannot be covered by existing teachers. We need retraining and additional training for existing teachers. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U28	Thank you. This is a very important issue and a very real need, because in addition to language teachers, we have a lack of teachers in Estonia at all. This is undoubtedly a wider problem. But surely one way would be to provide language teachers with opportunities for further training, and this would undoubtedly be the subject of our draft. But I also want to say that it is undoubtedly very important that these children from the families of Ukrainian refugees learn the Estonian language as soon as possible. We certainly expect and hope that at least a large part of them can quickly return to their homeland, and that is undoubtedly the first preference of their families. However, we have to face this slow war and honestly say that apparently a very large proportion of these children will remain in Estonia for at least years, and the sooner they learn this language, the better, because the faster they can integrate into our society. And also in a long view, if they can finally return to their free homeland, we have thousands of young people in one of Europe's largest countries who speak Estonian, who are Estonian friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U29	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! How do you feel? It seems to me that the country does not actually have a comprehensive plan or solution today. Well, this question is made up of very different components that don't connect together. Where there are jobs, there are no residences, there are no kindergartens, there are no kindergartens, there may not be teachers. I haven't seen the whole solution. Should we actually contribute first of all to getting a picture of the country and looking for solutions that may not require very much money, but require cooperation and reflection?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U31	Thank you, very good question! All the more so because this crisis, today's war in Ukraine, did not come as a surprise. In fact, the Estonian state, the government, our authorities, the ministries had enough time to assess the situation in order to make the necessary preparations. The fact that the government actually slept or made insufficient preparations, the more eloquent fact is that when the war was in progress, the refugees came, our minister said that our ability to receive only 2 000 refugees, while our security authorities said that this number could be up to 100,000, right? Yes, the whole solution should have been drawn up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U32	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U33	Mr Jaak Juske! At this point in time, it is probably very justified that all our attention is directed to the children from Ukraine, and your draft actually speaks directly of this topic. At the same time, the topic of teacher follow-up is obscured, which has been such a painful topic in our society for years and generally in the field of education. I understand that these issues are linked, because if at this point we do not speak to teachers, perhaps next year, when this problem is even more acute, it will be reflected not only for those coming from Ukraine but also for the entire education system. As your teacher, how do you see the current government building this perspective, and will we discover ourselves in two or three years from an even deeper crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U34	That's another very good question. Indeed, the issue of teacher secondary growth, teacher shortage is one of the most acute issues in the Estonian education system. There has been a lot of talk about it here, but there are no such clear solutions with a long view. But I would like to tell you that, yes, although this particular draft may be focused on children of war refugees, it is actually very direct about our today Estonia, our own children. As I said, the interest education cut primarily affected Estonian children. And the more money we put there today, if we even give back this 4 million, our municipalities will also have the capacity to help those Estonian families that are clearly in trouble today, as prices are rising very quickly. Or if we pay teachers a decent salary, it will undoubtedly be easier to find and train good teachers who are doing their job with even greater zeal and even greater passion, because a decent salary is also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U35	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! Viktoria almost asked my question, but it's no big deal, because I'm concerned about the same thing that our ability to teach the language is still very weak. I can see that very well when I'm an Eastern virumaan. And that means we've spent a lot of money irrationally, children haven't learned the language. We would, of course, like to fix this, but if the ruling coalition still pushes this thing back the way it pushes, then we're not going anywhere again. Yes, we are. And another thing: how do you think we can overcome this if we want to teach Ukrainian children much better and find these solutions, but if we consider that they are going back home in a large majority, isn't that a waste of resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U37	Thank you. None of us today know how long this bloody war of conquest will last. Rather, as the signs indicate, it may, unfortunately, last longer than a short period of time. In any case, even if Russia does not win, and it certainly will not win, it will be able to exhaust this poor country for a long time. And a very large number of war refugees can stay in Estonia for years, because even if they wanted to return and could return, they have no place to turn to at first speed. As we have heard here, the Estonian state is also helping to rebuild the devastated areas of Ukraine, but all this will take time. It is important that young people and families, including parents, who are war refugees here today, still know the Estonian official language on an elementary level, so that they can get a job here and become part of our society for even a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U38	Eduard, with this item on the agenda, only one question can be put to each of the rapporteurs. We've run out of questions. Now let's go to the co-report. By the Cultural Commission Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U39	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, good ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to tell you about the discussion of this bill in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, which took place on two dates: 3 May, where representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research also participated, in particular Liina Põld, Deputy Chancellor of Education and Youth Policy, and 9 May, when the relevant procedural decisions were taken. On 3 May the members of the committee, Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Jaanus Karilaid as alternate member of Aadu Black, Signe Kivi, Anneli Ott Marko Šorin, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Aivar Viidik as alternate member of Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, were present. I would point out from this debate, the substance of which Jaak Juske has already partially introduced, concerning the ministry, that perhaps it is most important to emphasise again that this bill was handed over to the Riigikogu when the war in Ukraine had lasted for three weeks and that 20,000 war refugees had arrived in Estonia, including 7500 children. There was no additional budget at that moment, but as confirmed by Liina Põld of the Ministry of Education and Research, the situation has now changed. The additional budget has been approved by the government and a solution has been found to many of the concerns raised in the draft Social Democrats. It can be said that the additional needs for education in the supplementary budget are EUR 77886000, which is divided between different areas. A total of €6 million is available for language training. The calculation is based on student bounty, additional language learning is 1.5 hours per week, which costs EUR 3.7 million and includes the teacher's labour costs. Quite a lot of money goes to summer language training camps. Integration camps include mixed groups of Estonian and Ukrainian children and can be organized by non-profit institutions, recreational schools, private sector, local governments, general education schools. Additional resources for language learning camps are 2.8 million euros, says Liina Põld. The overall operating cost of general education, calculated on the basis of balance records, i.e. the actual costs of the previous year, is EUR 506 per student. Settlement takes place through local authorities. The amount includes all costs related to general education: transport, support services, school food. In early childhood education, this amount is EUR 465 per student per month. These are rather broad ways to spend this activity. There are really no funds available for a separate education of interest. The municipality, however, has the power to freely use the funds paid on the basis of the Estonian Education Information System's calculation and may also cover the costs of recreational education, for example if the child is in distance education at the Ukrainian school during the current period and does not participate in Estonian school teaching. That's what's happening right now. The costs are covered on a monthly basis by a ministerial decree. When the Riigikogu gives a mandate to use the additional budget, the local governments will also receive decree-based funding afterwards. The first payment covers the period February to June. Liina Põld added that indeed the most difficult topic of teacher's salary is. Raising teacher's salary to 120% of the average wage in Estonia provides for a transitional action plan and the target level is planned to be reached for the years 2025 to 2026. This will result in cumulative additional resources of EUR 197,2 million. This means that the calculations show that the cost of raising wages by 1% is EUR 44.6 million, as there are about 16,000 teachers in general education. If this objective is realised immediately, an additional EUR 90 million per year will be needed for wages. In 2022, the total amount of the Equalisation and Support Fund will be EUR 380.7 million in education for local authorities. The rest of the educational costs are covered by the local government itself from the income tax on individuals. The field added that the costs of the state and local government are broadly split in half. Jaak White asked during the debate whether the review meant that the Government had already taken account of the request in the draft. Ms Põld replied that the wishes had been taken into account until the end of the current financial year. Jaak Juske asked whether the additional budget would only partially cover the need for funding in the draft, that was his comment, and that it was based on the cost level of the previous year, as he said here in his presentation. Liina Põld specified the part of the hobby education that Jaak Juske pointed out and said that it really contained a cut of EUR 4 million, but stressed again that this means that the support for recreational activities and education has continued to be the responsibility of local authorities. This cut was linked to the need to raise the pay of teachers and the municipality was given back its obligation. Signe Kivi asked that, if the draft had been drawn up earlier, the financial needs in the draft had been met, and he asked the initiators whether they had no idea of updating the content of the draft and referring only to the missing amounts. Jaak Juske replied that the need for money was only partially met. The draft will continue in its round of proceedings and it will be possible to make improvements to it by both the initiators and members of the Riigikogu. The Commission staff did improve that this option does not really exist. Helle-Moonika Helme asked whether the summer camps could be organized by everything or whether there was a qualification check. He asked whether Estonian children had to pay a participation fee for the camp or whether they could participate free of charge, like the children of the Ukrainian refugee. Vice-Chancellor Liina Põld replied that the terms and conditions are the same and the participation fee is up to EUR 10 per child and is minimal for all participants. No special treatment for children of different nationalities is envisaged for participation fees. The summer camp must be activity-based and not focus solely on language learning, and it is necessary to have a professional qualification requirement for a grower to hold a professional certificate. Helle-Moonika Helme also asked about music training, which is very expensive for parents, how is it now being paid for: do Ukrainian children receive music training free of charge and the Estonian parent must pay for it? Liina Põld replied that the principle of equal treatment applies since the entry of the refugee in the population register was made. In this case, it will be covered by all the benefits from the local government's income base. The situation is that only 4000 out of 12,000 children are currently listed in the population register. It all takes time. Municipalities have been advised not to charge military parents for an interest education, as the bounty covers all costs. Speaker here, Margit Sutrop asked if language training was really only provided for 1.5 hours a week. Vice Chancellor Liina Põld explained that the calculation was based on twice 45 minutes a week and that language learning could also be offered more, which would, of course, make sense from the point of view of language learning. The state provides EUR 210 per child and the municipality itself organises language training. Another important problem could then be highlighted. At this meeting, I also asked if there were any statistics on the number of children of war that are currently taking part in recreational education. Liina Põld replied that filling in the entry of the Estonian Education Information System based on interest education is currently not an obligation for local governments, as settlement is through general education. So that's not really an overview right now. That concludes the substantive debate. The Commission's officials pointed out that the position of the Legal and Analytical Department of [the Riigikogu] has been communicated in writing to the Commission, which states that since the Government of the Republic is required to draw up either an additional budget or amend the State Budget Act when a draft decision is adopted, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the draft. That shall mean at least 51 votes in favour. Mr Klopets added that linguistic and technical changes had been introduced to the draft, which had been accepted by the drafter. Some words have been reordered, and Jaak Juske said he would agree. Jaak White, vice-chairman of the Commission, who led the debate, proposed that Margit Sutrop be appointed rapporteur for the Commission, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 May and hold a final vote. That was agreed by consensus. The next meeting was held on 9 May, chaired by Aadu Must, Chairman of the Commission. Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin were present. There was no Signe Stone. Procedural decisions were taken at this meeting. Aadu Black proposed to approve the draft procedural documents, the linguistic and technical specifications introduced in the draft and the explanatory memorandum to the draft at first reading. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft with linguistic and technical amendments and decided to put it on the plenary agenda on 12 May. Let it be stressed again that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. It was decided to endorse the procedural documents and this was done in a consensual manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U40	Thank you. Now the questions. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that you have discussed this proposal when it comes to the subject and, in parallel, there has been an additional budget covering some of these topics, and you yourself pointed out one topic where you doubt whether it will cover the subject or not, it is twice 45 [minutes] of language learning per week, was there more debate about the details that are not covered by the additional budget, but what is critical? And what might your own observations be that are not covered by the additional budget in this case today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U42	Thank you very much for your question. I say that all the questions that were discussed, they were all referred to, there was nothing more. I would add, however, that the study of Estonian was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 3 May [the agenda prior to the discussion of this draft], where the Minister of Culture gave a very thorough overview, because language learning is shared between both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture at the same time. Because language learning, adult language learning, is organised primarily through language schools. The letter to the Estonian Commission of MTÜ Folkuniversitetet stated how it would be resolved: language houses, which are also under the Ministry of Culture, and the unemployment fund has also started to teach those refugees who need to get into the labour market as a matter of urgency. Instead, the money that goes to adult language learning moves through the Ministry of Culture. So it gave us the background that language training at A1 level is currently planned for 10,000 persons who have received temporary protection, and it is equally included in the supplementary budget. There was also one thing that was touched on in this debate when Jaak Juske presented it, and that is the question of teachers: where will these teachers be taken from? And it was precisely under this point of the Minister of Culture that it was quite a long discussion that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Education and Research, had planned the training of new language teachers. That's the one thing that's being dealt with. And they want to be brought into the labour market from the autumn. This is certainly a difficult task, I agree with colleagues who have drawn attention to this concern, but such efforts are indeed being made by the country. As regards language learning for students under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research, most students study in Estonian-language schools, that is, they actually participate in Estonian-language classes. These two times 45 minutes, which we are talking about, are also intended to teach Estonian for them. Basically, they are in the language environment, most of the Estonian-language learning and part of the immersion classes, in fact language learning takes place in addition. It is certainly important to know this very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U43	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is perhaps broader in this sense, that not only in the context of this draft, but also in the context of an additional budget, because they are dealing with the same objective, the same thing. When you discussed this draft concerning the financing of children's education of interest, and precisely the hole that has arisen in the past, that the funding for children's interest education has been reduced by this year, has the Commission in any way developed a position as a recommendation to Parliament and the government to what to do to ensure that this education of interest is adequately funded and restored? I have been approached, despite the fact that the government is planning to give money to the children of Ukraine, with very many youth workers worried that, despite this, it is still necessary to carry out or carry out the activities of children's interest groups, summer circles and all other activities at the expense of Estonian children, because the money simply does not go on. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U45	Thank you for your question. By sticking to what was going on at the committee meeting and which was discussed, I would like to emphasise once again that there was talk about education of interest. Indeed, Jaak Juske highlighted this need for money again. But I must respond again by stressing what the Ministry of Education and Research has said that support for recreational activities and education has been and continues to be the responsibility of local authorities. The income base of local governments has increased. This cut made by the state in recreational education does not automatically mean that the so-called budget for recreational education will be reduced. It comes out of this discussion, but that is what was brought out in the committee session.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U46	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you spoke or discussed the issue of the bounty in the Commission, you got an overview from the Minister, was it a question of how much of the component is involved, how the bounty is formed? Why is this important? It is also important for inter-municipal numbers, because it may well be that the child is registered in one municipality, but he or she receives some services from another. In the current crisis situation, we need very much clarity so that we do not plunge into disputes with each other. Was that what we were talking about? Has the Ministry taken any steps towards such legal clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U48	Thank you. There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. I understand that the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research stressed that this was a wide range of possibilities, pointing out it as an advantage that it is a great flexibility. That's all I know how to answer that. He said that it included a wide range of costs for general education and that it could therefore be used for precisely the needs needed. He gave one example, which is, I think, reasonable: very many children who have arrived here have not yet gone to general education, but for them these costs can be used, for example, for recreational education. It's one of the options.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U49	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U50	Dear Margit Sutrop! I really did not have [one] committee meeting, and that is why I want to clarify this. You said that the HTM representative claims that language learning takes place at a rate of 45 minutes twice a week. I am saying that at this rate we will not get very far, because right now those who are just coming to society need intensive courses. Signe Riisalo spoke about this in part yesterday when she spoke about an additional year of study, when it was necessary not to improve the language a little, but to learn from the beginning. Is the rate we're putting in this system really that slow? If it's a strategy, we won't get far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U51	Thank you. I understand that, at the meeting of the Commission, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research spoke of the fact that this is the extra money that the state is giving. This does not mean that schools should only organise twice as many as 45 minutes or that all language learning is limited to it. The state provides EUR 210 per child and the municipality itself organises language training. This is what goes to cover the teacher's extra work, but it has been taken into account that children are being integrated into general language learning, especially in Estonian-language schools, language immersion schools and are simply not covered financially. In fact, the question is only what kind of money is foreseen, not that the state would say that so much language learning should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U52	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U53	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, It's amazing how you repeat the mantra of the Reform Party to us here, isn't it, that the local government's income base has grown, there's a lot of money, you don't know how to spend well, you have to keep up with the money for recreational education, and the local government's responsibility. Well, believe me, there are tens of thousands of euros in some municipalities where the amount of recreational education has decreased, not because the municipality is perhaps bad, but because the overall income base has decreased. And the income base of most Estonian municipalities has decreased. We can't just align around the big cities and their golden circles. You say that, too, I realized that in the Commission, it has been said that the municipality itself will decide where it will use the money, whether it will use the scraps that are, wouldn't it, move the money around and so on? But municipalities have not planned these hundreds of children or thousands of children in their budgets, they have not taken into account their activities of interest, and in the middle of the year it is not possible to organise it. The money that will be provided will certainly not cover these needs. What advice do you give to small municipalities whose income base has not grown?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U54	Unfortunately, this issue comes out of the mandate for the representative of the Commission. I understand your concern, but what I represent here is only information provided by the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Research, which I passed on. The fact that the Minister is from the Reform Party may, of course, give you the impression that this is somehow political, but this is the official's position that I have communicated to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U55	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Eduard Odines, please! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to avoid confusion this week, I am representing the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This morning was very emotional. The deputy Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament thanked us for saving the children of Ukraine. It really took a lot of breath. But in addition to saving, we still need to think through what will happen to these children, but also to their mothers, when they are saved here in Estonia. Our education system, our school, is this place, and the kindergarten, of course, where these children now feel the best and most secure. Where can they go from temporary permanent housing arranged by the state on Isabelle, on the surface of the sea? I'm chairman of a Kohtla-Järve school board and we had a meeting last week. Our school has dozens of children from Ukraine. The teachers said that children feel very, very safe and well at school. They feel support and need this support even more. They need support for integration, they need support in recreational education and activities, so that all these horrors of war go a little bit past them, so that they forget a little about these things, even though they can probably never quite forget it. And a local government that doesn't have a chance in real life is still looking for something, but it's also counting on the help of the state. This Social Democrat bill, which was presented already in March, was intended to provide real support to local authorities so that they, in turn, could provide support to the children of Ukraine in our education system. The draft was submitted in March. The government coalition waited until 3 May to discuss this in the Committee on Culture. Why was this done? Why did it wait so long? But because an extra budget arrived on May 2. The next day they started to discuss and report how well everything is: see, we have an extra budget, update your bill why you break in through an open door. However, the deadline for amendments was 31 March, there is nothing more to be done. What are we playing here, ladies and gentlemen? When municipalities expect support, we wait for an additional budget. But maybe there won't be an extra budget to look at the latest news. So let us first think not about political games and how to do the opposition bill, but about what real children need support and help in the Estonian education system. And this help we can provide through local authorities. In addition, in fact, this bill and the debate in both the Commission and in this Chamber today have clearly highlighted all the problems of the Estonian education system, starting from lack of teachers, lack of support specialists, low wages, lack of methodology, cutting interest education. All these things came out very clearly because several thousand new students came into our education system at once. And we can see that most local authorities are in trouble. The state could come to the rescue and not talk about the fact that the income base has grown. Some may have, most do not. And no one, no government has taken into account that this war is escalating so much that we must receive so many refugees. My group and I made a two-day visit across Estonia, visited quite a number of municipalities cross-crossed and [we learned that] concerns are not just in the education system. There are concerns in the social system, there are problems with housing, there are many problems, and local authorities, most of them, are really in trouble. Any state aid is extremely necessary and it cannot get behind us to see that we will soon have an additional budget. Soon? Look, your income base has grown, look for your scraps, raise your money. Maybe some people have money to change, most people don't. Kindergarten places, school places, the physical environment in many municipalities simply do not have any place to put these children. There are no tables and chairs for them. There are no teams to move them to. Kindergartens that have long been closed are opened so that they can offer rooms to these children. And we're talking about the income base growing, look at your scraps, we'll give you 200 euros. And make sure you don't do that on the account of Estonian children! But who else is there to do that for? There's just no way. And another aspect I want to highlight. We talk a great deal about learning Estonian here, and this bill is actually aimed at learning Estonian. But in addition to learning the Estonian language, we must certainly think, and soon think, so that children can also learn their native language, Ukrainian language and Ukrainian culture. And that's the next challenge in case these kids stay here longer. Because it is now up to us who have saved [children] from Ukraine to make sure that they do not forget their mother tongue, their mother culture, that it also develops and that they learn it further here in Estonia. This is an additional challenge and the local authorities will certainly not be able to cope here. I'm sure you're gonna need some help from the state here. So there are more questions than answers. This draft decision would give our Riigikogu the task of seeking these answers, offering solutions to the Government of the Republic, not raising most of the problems to the shoulders of the local government. So, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialists, I would like to ask for support for our draft decision. We help the children of Ukraine, we help the municipalities that help the children of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U57	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is undoubtedly our duty to help Ukraine in this extremely unfair war against Russia's very brutal aggression. Indeed, a large number of Ukrainian children have reached refuge in Estonia, and in this context we certainly need to look at how we can help them. I will broadly divide this subject into three parts. First of all, how our local governments' revenue base, what our local authorities' capacity is, such a general framework for this whole problem. The second is the financing of education in the broadest context, coming down to the next stage. And the third is really already dealing with specific details, specific tasks that help specific children, specific people. We know that this problem is very multifaceted and these components don't ring together, they don't fit together. Where there are empty dwellings, we have no jobs. Where there are jobs, we have no kindergarten places. Where we have kindergarten places, we don't have enough teachers. The government regrettably lacks an overall picture. Once again, we can say that there is no crisis plan, at least I have not heard or seen it. The crisis plan of the government does not have how to solve this problem as a whole. This crisis did not come quite overnight, as was the January 2005 storm, as an example, when the western coast was flooded. It came, figuratively speaking, really overnight, very quickly had to react. Of course, the depth of this crisis is very great, but this crisis, before it reached Estonia, gave a long signal. And when else to react when the security authorities of our partners, our own security authorities, say: right now, this crisis will get here, get your feet out of your stomach, get on with it. But what doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Now let's look at the next level. Indeed, if we are going to solve this problem, then [we need to look] at the existence of teachers, the pay of teachers, which are teachers, are really very hard hit by COVID's very heavy emotional work in two years. Regrettably, their wages have not reached the level allowed here: 1.2 average [salary]. Actually, it's supposed to be 1.25 averages, but, well, it could get to 1.2. But now it doesn't even reach 1.0. This is embarrassing! This is certainly not how we solve this problem. How can this money reach the municipalities? Yesterday, we were listening to the Minister of the Interior, who gave us an overview of how he's doing his job. And we realized that... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U59	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U60	... in fact, there are very long queues so that people can register in the population register. At the same time, the state does not create opportunities for people to register quickly, but we share revenue with local governments on this basis. Well, hello, those things don't ring together! I'd like to say come down from that tree and get to work. If there is a crisis, there must be clear rules. Regrettably, we have seen that today's government cannot establish clear rules. If the municipalities have been allocated EUR 506 [per child], then really, if the children live in one municipality but receive the service in another municipality and perhaps even in the third municipality, how will the distribution of money take place? We should not waste time arguing and discussing what these scales are. However, this EUR 506 was received because of some sort of division. They didn't look at the ceiling and they didn't say 506. Then one might ask why, for example, there is no 605 of this amount. After all, it could be publicly known how it was formed, how money can be distributed even after these services are provided by different municipalities. But what doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Indeed, the funding for recreational education was cut by nearly 27% this year, and it is shameful when we talk about our municipalities bathing in money. This cut created the educational life of our municipalities very strongly. And here it has been said, I would say that tens of thousands certainly, but in some cases even more, the money was reduced, which could be allocated to provide children with an education of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to teachers in general education schools, we also have kindergarten or early childhood education teachers, teachers in recreational education, and their pay must move at the same pace as the salaries of teachers in general education. It's 100% pushed into the hands of the local governments. And tell you then that you don't have any problems, well, take this money and pay... At the same time, the consumer price index has risen to almost 19% over the year. Municipalities have been put in a very difficult situation. If the state does not come to the rescue here, of course I am absolutely convinced that our municipalities and cities will do their best, then the result will be relatively low and regrettably we will not be able to do what we could actually do. So I have a clear message for the coalition and the government: get on with it! First, make a clear plan on how to help, and start implementing this plan as well. And, of course, without additional resources, this problem cannot be solved. I know that the various groups have also made their proposals in the supplementary budget. Take note of these proposals, which will support both our people and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U61	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the lead committee has proposed a final vote. Before that, we have to make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the number 555 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on Proposal for the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U62	The draft needed a majority of its component members for adoption. There are 18 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U63	Today's second item is the draft law amending the Penal Code, Family Law and Civil Procedure Code (amending the age limit of sexual self-determination and marriage) initiated by Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid and the Government of the Republic. This is a joint draft, brought together Bill 339, 348 and 478. It is now a joint draft before us at second reading and a presentation will be presented by Heljo Pikhof, Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! The Bill 601 amends the Penal Code and the Family Law. The Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid initiated a draft law amending the Penal Code on 348 on 15 March 2021 and first reading passed the draft on 11 May that year. On 16 February 2021, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party initiated the draft law amending the Penal Code and passed the first reading on 14 April 2021. The law amending the Penal Code and the Family Law, which means changing the age limit for sexual self-determination and marriage, was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 November 2021 and passed the draft at first reading on 15 December 2021. Drafts 339 and 348 initiated by the Riigikogu were the subject of a debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 22 March 2021 on "Fronts against sexual self-determination of minors, legal framework and implementation practice." At its meeting on 21 February 2022, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to merge the three drafts that were discussed here. Thus, Bill 601 which we are currently dealing with at second reading raises the age limit for sexual self-determination from the age of 14 to the age of 16 and it is a joint draft between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the EKRE. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs of 3 May 2022, the second reading of the combined draft 601 was essentially a preparatory debate and substantive clarifications were introduced. We also asked the stakeholders for an opinion, the children's welfare association and the non-profit association Eluline, who also attended the meeting. Now maybe just a little bit more about what this bill is about. According to the draft, the Penal Code will be amended in relation to the age limit for sexual self-determination. The current law, which has been in force since 1992, when the Estonian Code was amended after Estonia regained independence, is 14 years old. The same regulation was also transposed by the Penal Code, which entered into force in 2002. The focus of the amendment is to raise the age limit for sexual self-determination from the age of 14 to the age of 16 and the associated changes. It is important that, in comparison with the law in force, young adults are given speciality in allowing sexual relations with minors, the so-called Romeo and Julia clauses. According to this, a young adult's sexual relationship with a minor of 14 to 16 years of age is not punishable if the age difference is up to five years. Thus, consensual sexual relations with 14-year-olds up to 19 years of age and 15-year-olds up to 20 years of age are allowed. No limitation shall be imposed from the age of 16. The main objective of the draft is to protect minors from sexual abuse committed by adults, while not to criminalise voluntary relationships between young people at the age of their age. In order to protect children from sexual abuse, § 145 of the Penal Code, i.e. acts of sexual orientation or other sexual nature, raise the penalty rate. If the child is younger than 14 years of age, the bill allows the perpetrator to be punished by imprisonment of up to eight years, the law in force provides for imprisonment of up to five years. § 1451 of the Penal Code also raises the rate of sanction for underage sex purchase in a situation where the child is younger than 14 years of age. The current law provides for imprisonment of up to five years, but the bill envisages imprisonment of up to eight years. As the draft raises the age limit for sexual self-determination from 14 years of life to 16 years of life, the concept of childhood is also given new content in the sexual crime chapter. As a general rule, a person under 16 years of age is subsequently considered to be of child's age. Changes are also made in Section 2 of Chapter 11 of the Penal Code: § 1781 of the Penal Code, a sexually purpose agreement to meet a child's childhood, and § 179 of the Penal Code. In the same way, the age of the victim will be raised from the age of 14 to the age of 16. In order to prevent punishment for the handling of pornographic material created in a voluntary and age-appropriate relationship, elements of crime are subject to exclusion, with an age difference of five years. Otherwise, there may be a situation where, for example, 17 years of age and 18 years of age may have intercourse, but the recording of such intercourse or the sending of pornographic images to their partners by 17 years of age would be punishable as a criminal offence. In the case of sexual seduction of a child, the age limit for acts committed by an adult shall also be 16 years and this composition shall not be fulfilled if the age difference between an adult and a person aged 14 and 16 does not exceed five years. Like the changes described above, the aim here is to protect children from sexual abuse and not to interfere in normal relations between the same people. And now, exceptionally, about the marriage that has been promised so far. According to the current Family Law, a person who has reached the age of 15 may be married if the court has extended the capacity of a minor to perform the activities necessary for the conclusion of a marriage and the exercise of the rights and duties of the marriage. Both the Commission and the Ministry of Justice discussed raising the exceptional age of marriage, i.e. from 15 to 16 years, with the aim of bringing marriages into line with the age of sexual self-determination. However, on the basis of the feedback received during the co-ordination of the draft, the draft was amended and the exceptional marriages of minors are repealed. This change is directly linked to raising the age line for sexual self-determination. From now on, only adults can get married. Perhaps now § 1751: applying for and monitoring access to child pornography. The bill proposes an analogous regulation that does not constitute a fault if it is committed on a voluntary basis in relation to a child who is not unintelligible in child pornography or in performance, and the perpetrator, based on mutual consent, is not granted a financial reward or any other benefit, and the age difference between the child and the perpetrator does not exceed five years. This is an analogous solution to § 145 (1). As the perpetrator does not have to be of age, the five-year age difference applies to all persons who are guilty. In other words, in order to rule out guilt, it must be established that the child pornography to which access was sought or followed included a minor who participated in a performance or work on a voluntary basis, inter alia, no remuneration was paid and access or performance monitoring would be possible due to the age-appropriate relationship between the minor and the perpetrator. An age-appropriate relationship with the proposed regulation is, first and foremost, a relationship in which sexual intercourse or the commission of any other act of a sexual nature would not be in compliance with the offence provided for in § 145 of the Penal Code. Decisions were taken in the Commission as always: to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 15 May; to propose a second reading to be closed; to propose, when the second reading is closed, to put the draft on the plenary agenda and to hold a final vote on 18 May this year; to appoint Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the lead committee. The draft would enter into force on 1 November. Different dates were proposed: June 1st, September 1st, but it was thought that more information was needed to inform the public that this party was now over for many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-12_U65	Thank you. It's possible to ask questions. No questions asked. Then it will be possible to open negotiations. I don't see a negotiation request either. In such a case, amendments need to be examined. One amendment has been tabled by the commission and, of course, this amendment has been fully taken into account by the commission itself. We have examined the amendments. The second reading of Bill 601 is complete. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed.
