ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! [[It's ringing the bell. It's buzzing in the hall.]] Good fellows! Madis Milling, a member of the Riigikogu, has suddenly left us. I have a request that we rise and express our condolences to his loved ones. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U2	Good fellows! On 4 February Ülle Rajasalu became a member of the Riigikogu following the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu member Madis Milling. Next, please to the Riigikogu Chair Ülle Rajasalu, we will listen to his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U3	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U4	Now I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U5	Good fellows! I am handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, according to which the Riigikogu is proposing to the Government of the Republic to put an immediate end to the restrictions imposed on the spread of COVID-19. The situation in which more than a quarter of adults cannot participate in society in practice has lasted for six months and since February tens of thousands of people previously vaccinated will not be able to participate in society. If we look at developments abroad, then Britain, Denmark and also Lithuania, whose hospital care figures are much higher than we do, have decided to put an end to the restrictions. And more and more countries are moving in the same direction. On the basis of § 12 of the Constitution, which provides for a fundamental right to universal equality and a prohibition of discrimination, as there is no reasonable and appropriate justification, it cannot continue to be the case where persons are treated differently for an extremely long time. Analysis and data related to COVID-19 disease are already sufficient to refute the claim that vaccinated individuals are significantly less likely to be infected than non-vaccinated individuals. Restrictions require a prudent decision based on evidence-based data and taking into account all aspects of the functioning of society, including the necessary legitimacy. Maris Jesse, former Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has acknowledged that one of the aims of introducing a corona passport was to motivate people to vaccinate more. But limitations cannot have indirect and hidden objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U6	I'm sorry, are you gonna hand it over? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] This is the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which has been handed over. Any more calls? No, it's not. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U7	69 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 32. Dear colleagues, we have come to the approval of the agenda and I have a proposal to put to the vote the adoption of the agenda for the fourth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. But before we start taking positions here and voting, please ask a procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I have to ask the traditional question again why we have two readings on the agenda of this week. Draft 475. In the past, the third reading was completed when the second reading was completed. It has now been deleted, i.e. the members of the Riigikogu are so superficial that they don't even notice. But we are still following the agenda of the Riigikogu. The Bureau has repeatedly condemned such a case. For what reason is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U9	Thank you. Yes, our good practice should provide that we do not have more than one reading on the agenda. This time, in the case of draft 475, we discussed this and, exceptionally, the Bureau decided that 475 SE could be at second and third reading this week. It is true that the third reading takes place when the second reading is completed. This is something we discussed separately and, exceptionally, it has been added here. In the past, there have been only exceptionally two readings in the Riigikogu's practice one week [the draft], and I agree with you that if possible, we will try to avoid this. Priit Onion, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U10	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. You made another exception or unprecedented decision on Wednesday's second item on the agenda of the Minister for Education and Research in 2022, an overview of strategic developments in the field. I understand this is a political statement. Why did you decide in the Bureau that this should be the second item on Wednesday? And why is it being dealt with in this form that there are only speeches by the representatives of the political groups, and each of them has only one question? You realise that there can be no debate about this in this context. Besides, we do not have any materials ahead of us, so as an ambassador, I do not have any sense of weakness as to what the Minister feels are strategic developments this year. How can I participate in this process and discuss it on Wednesday? In this sense, I propose that it be removed from this Wednesday agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U11	Thank you. I accept the proposal you have made to remove it from the Wednesday agenda. Let's see what the other factions think. As far as I know, the strategic developments in the field of education and research in 2022 are the result of the new strategy "Estonia 2035," which was brought here to the Riigikogu and approved by the Riigikogu. According to my information, this material should reach the members of the Riigikogu by this evening at the latest. During the debate, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to put a question and, as far as I know, to speak in the round of negotiations on behalf of the political groups. So it comes from the strategy "Estonia 2035." The Riigikogu has requested that, with this framework strategy [in relation to] the ministers of the field start attending not only the Riigikogu committees, but also the Riigikogu plenary. That's the reason. Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U12	Thank you! As we know, our society is governed by a constitution, law, regulation, organisation, decision and, among other things, by rules that are not codified, that is, customs and customs. And you have just referred to the fact that good practice is that one draft is not dealt with on the same day, I mean 475. But you explained that the Riigikogu Board discussed this and decided to break good practice, which is why it decided to violate basically our standards of conduct, which have evolved despite the fact that they have not been codified. And my question: will you please open up the content of this debate, which caused this draft to be put on the agenda twice this week?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U13	Thank you! I just think you guys had a little misthink. I didn't say there were two readings of a bill one day, as you said. I said one week. I think that's what you meant. But it's nothing extraordinary. The truth is, as a rule, we have tried, if possible, to avoid two readings in one week. And if you ask what [now] is the reason, the reason is that if the 475 SE were previously accepted, electricity subsidies would not be taken into account in calculating the unemployment benefit and electricity subsidies could not be withdrawn under the enforcement procedure. That's the reason. That was the content of the Bureau debate that you asked about. And now the procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U14	Thank you. I have a substantive question on the agenda. On Wednesday's second item, the Minister for Education and Research's overview of strategic developments in the field. I would like to congratulate the Bureau on putting it on the Wednesday agenda, where there is no fixed end on the working day, where we do not have a rush, where we can deal with all the items on the agenda in a calm manner. And I have a proposal for the Bureau to agree with the Minister so that all members of the Riigikogu can speak during the negotiations. I find it abnormal that only the representatives of the political groups, or five members of the Riigikogu, can speak on such an important issue. Since this is a first-time overview of this 'Estonia 2035' format, we are setting a precedent and all the following sectoral reviews will come in the same way so that the hall will listen in a mute way and only five representatives of the political group can speak. This is a place that needs to be agreed with the Minister. The rules of procedure allow this, and I have an urgent proposal that the Bureau agree and allow all members of the Riigikogu to participate in the discussion on Wednesday during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U15	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for this recognition. Thank you very much, Honourable Helir-Valdor Seeder. I actually share your principle that it is precisely Parliament, because of our constitution, that is the place where such political discussions and debates must take place. Now your proposal to allow all members of the Riigikogu to speak on this item. However, we must come to § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5 of which says: "After submitting a statement, a report or an overview and answering questions, negotiations will be opened, during which there will be speakers from the political groups. " And it is true that five political groups are, so you are right, the word can reach a maximum of five people, up to five. But could there be more? I think it's a debate for the future. Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U16	Thank you, Mr President. In general, I, too, congratulate the Bureau on preparing this draft agenda. But at the same time I have to say [as regards your reference] that it is in practice such a primary leader, where we will have reviews of "Estonia 2035" from [the members of the government] involved in the implementation of this 2035, that it is a precedent-creating one. That means that if we make the wrong start, this whole dynamic could go into the wrong rhythm. For Parliament, the ministerial reviews have been a sort of compensatory mechanism to balance the fact that these so-called sectoral development plans have actually been incorporated into one and are such that they do not come to Parliament to make a substantive decision. They shall be dealt with in the form of a hearing in Parliament. In fact, Parliament's guideline that ministers are going to make reviews was not so specific, as far as I know, that they are doing so under a certain provision of the Rules of Procedure Act and that they are doing so precisely in the form of a political statement. If [still] there was, I would ask that this Parliament's decision be referred to. In fact, we have an conceivable review of the strategic developments in the field by the Minister of Education and Research, a very holistic title in itself, also to be conducted as a matter of national importance, which the Commission would launch. In such a case, this procedure would be provided for by the proposal of the commission. And it seems to me that perhaps in such a case, it would be appropriate to achieve a comprehensive approach at the level of the body of elders as to how these [discourses] will be conducted. [So far] the Minister's political statement has actually been of an extraordinary nature; it has been, at least in the current parliamentary practice, the provision of information to Parliament. If this becomes a routine, so that we will have a number of sectoral ministers' reviews every year, would it not be reasonable to consider them as a matter of national importance, the title of which is a clear framework for the implementation of this "Estonia 2035" in our area of government? A specific proposal in this case is to find a different form if [currently] the proposal requires its [point] to be removed from the agenda this week. I think that, in the interests of making work the most efficient, we can also take a few days in reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U17	Thank you. Thank you very much, too, for this recognition. Now, the truth is, yes, the word of the law is really as I referred. Indeed, paragraph 155 provides that only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations in the case of an overview. Now, you say, Mr Reinsalu, that there could also be an OTRK and then there is also a [of] applicant. In this case, I understand it was your idea that, in a [specific] case, it could theoretically be the Committee on Culture that provided for it. Why not do so in OTRK's form in addition to this review, there is no way to prohibit it. To discuss the topic of the Minister of Education and Research for several weeks, both in the framework of Estonian 2035 and in the framework of OTRK, this is certainly welcome to me. But if we now want these reviews to be treated as political statements, I understand that this is your idea and Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder's, I do not think we can do that. These are reviews. But I understand that your point is that everyone can negotiate there, and that requires, at least, a quick assessment of what I'm trying to do right now, a change of law. This concerns the Home and Working Procedures Act. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U18	Thank you, good Chairman! I want to point out that we have a form that has been put forward as such and we read that it is about strategic developments this year. Can we imagine now that we have been experiencing a very difficult situation for two years that, at the beginning of February 2020, the Minister of Education would have come to talk about his plans? We know he would have said next year that we had plans like this last year. We don't know what situation we're in. Why do we necessarily have to make a show where only one question is allowed and the ambassadors cannot say anything in this format? Didn't the board once come up with the idea, good chairman, of what if things changed? We're just gonna listen to the plan that's come up. I'd understand there was an overview of what happened last year. I would, however, also recommend that the presentation of these former development plans and the current strategic development plans be taken into consideration in the [form] of a key national issue. That's what we're looking at in recent history.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U19	Thank you. Well, I say that, in the light of recent history, I do not think that there has been any possibility that the majority of the members of the government would go to the House in their own field [to present what has been done]. There have been very few of them: R &amp; D, European Union policy, defence over the years. Now, indeed, this opportunity has come within the framework of "Estonia 2035" that different ministers come here. The Bureau cannot in any way initiate the OTRK, it is either the committees or, as the law says, once a year also the political groups. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U20	Good manager! We are constantly talking about balanced development, food and food. But if you look at this week's menu, it's anything but balanced. I know the way the committees grind, that's how it comes. But my question: can't the board do anything? Just as there's something coming from the heat of the committees, you have to put it, [as they say]? Today's picture is that there is only one point on Tuesday, but on Wednesday... no [this time] luckily not 20. Is it that leadership has no power?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U21	Thank you. Well, it's a collaboration, isn't it? Indeed, it is the case that the lead committees are making their proposals, but I can say that today's Bureau has tried, taking into account many of the proposals from the floor, to make sure that we do not have completely empty days, and, in cooperation with the lead committees, to find ways of timing, if there are a few days in which no drafts have been drawn up by the lead committees [the proposal]. Then, in cooperation with them, we will try to find other ways. As you can see, no day in this week's draft agenda or project is empty of debate. And now the procedural question, Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U22	Thank you. In the meantime, there has been a long break, but if I remember correctly, Priit Sibul wanted to propose that we remove item 2 on Wednesday. I would like to mark that the Reform Party Group does not agree with the amendment of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U23	Thank you, Mr. Keldo! I mean, the thing is, as far as I know, Priit Sibul didn't want to do it, he proposed it. It was a resolute and firm decision. Your decision is just as resolute and firm, so it will kill [Sibula]'s proposal. And unfortunately or fortunately, what you asked for, Priit Onion, cannot be done. Let's keep going. Procedural question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U24	Good manager! I admit that I personally do not mind that there will be 475 debates this week on Monday and Wednesday. But I have a question: did the board discuss that the possibility of freezing energy benefits has been known for over a month? Can the Social Affairs Committee actually resolve this in a month? The Minister of Justice may have made it to the Social Affairs Committee. There has been so much debate on this subject. Did you also discuss in the Bureau that in October it was said that this support would come, in November it became clear that there was no law. The Finance Committee made a swift decision, which was taken in such a way as to enable this compensation to be paid from 1 January. Such a stretch. Now 400,000 people had to get that compensation. The latest news is that 40,000 people have been asking for this [support]. Were you discussing where this obstacle has arisen, so that those things that could really help our people will stretch?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U25	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the idea that this draft could really be discussed and processed twice this week. The answer to the other side of your question is that the Bureau did not essentially discuss it. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U26	Thank you, good Chairman! I would do one calculation, maybe you can come along and even find that this second item on Wednesday should find a new format. It's weeks 52 a year. If we count that every month there's a week without a hearing, and we take 12 out of there, we get 40. We have two summer months where there will be no hearings, and according to the current calculation, there will be eight more weeks and some at the beginning of September. That's how we're gonna have 30 weeks where the hearings can be. And then we take that we have 15 ministers and everyone would like to give a strategic overview. And, of course, we are being sent by all kinds of crises, and there could also be reports of why we could not carry out [this or this] last year. [This] means that every week we should be discussing the strategic objectives of one minister, which is being pursued, and then on the other side [we are starting to hear] why we are not achieving these strategic objectives. Which means there could be one such format, and I think, in terms of time savings, it could take the form of remote sessions on Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U27	Thank you. There were really many computations here now. I'll try to start from the back. The Friday's long-term form of the hearing is true that we have not tested it and, as far as I know, its legal certainty has not been tried, discussed in the Supreme Court. I don't know how that would be Friday [day]. Now, this general move of yours I take very seriously. I understand the question that Helir-Valdor Seeder raised: that the issues that are so important are why not everyone can take the floor. At least I have seen it this way that the Riigikogu is one of the most important stages or forms of the procedure in which the members of the Riigikogu, who are free in their mandate, express their opinion on specific points of procedure. The truth is that if we take apart Article 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, what he was here, paragraph 5, as far as I know, clearly states that if there is an overview of the "Estonia 2035" in this case, then only the representatives of the political groups [will be heard]. Can we discuss this in OTRK's form? Yes, these discussions can also be conducted, but this requires a commission initiative or a group initiative once a year. We have not had a debate on Friday's sitting in either the Board of Elders or the Board. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U28	Thank you, Honourable Manager. I cannot agree in any way that you now want to make Parliament a rubber stamp and not give the floor to most members of the Riigikogu. I also do not agree that you are almost devoid of the role of the board of directors. If the minister wanted to take the initiative and is ready to come to Parliament with a strategic document and he turned to the Bureau, then the Bureau had the opportunity to look in the Rules of Procedure Act for a solution on how members of the Riigikogu could be fully involved. This option is as follows: the Bureau would have called on the Commission, in this case the Committee on Culture, to launch a debate on a key national issue. We could have asked several questions and we could all have talked. This buffer is precisely the Bureau, because the Minister's proposal did not come to any political group or committee, which the Bureau found out about. This is the work and competence of the board. And you had that opportunity. You didn't take this opportunity. But well, if the Bureau is looking for how it cannot, rather than looking for how it can, I have a suggestion: if only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations, then perhaps we could ask at least two questions and, if necessary, even three questions. The Rules of Procedure state that the parties involved in the negotiations are representatives of the political groups and [each can ask] one question, unless the Management Board and the official of the Riigikogu agree otherwise. You can agree otherwise so that we can not only ask one question but two questions, or even three questions. I would remind you that in the case of the simplest amendment to the law, which we read three times in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we can ask two questions at every reading. But now there is a strategic document, but we can ask one question, and most members of the Riigikogu do not have the possibility to negotiate either. It's completely abnormal. And I would point out that we are currently setting a precedent for all the following ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U29	Thank you. I do not agree with this criticism that it was up to the Bureau to take a different form of procedure here. It's still the power of the commission. And there are representatives of all political groups on the lead committee, taking into account today's composition of the Riigikogu. Now, the other side you said. Yeah, you're right about the number of questions. I agree that we are setting a precedent. And therefore your proposal is that the questions [may] be more than one. You said two, maybe three. At the moment, the decision has been taken in such a way that, in this strategic development review, which we are talking about on Wednesday under the second item on the agenda, everyone has one question. I will take this proposal from you here, and no later than tomorrow, when there is the Board of the Riigikogu, we will discuss it. Really, then the Riigikogu's chair is able to [allow] on this point, I cannot say, I think three [would be too much], I do not know that we would have been able to ask three questions to a single rapporteur. But two is possible. This could really be discussed, and I agree that it will create a framework or a form in this sense. So no later than tomorrow, the board will be able to discuss it. Good fellows! I thank you for this... Yeah, I was too hasty. I'm sorry! A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U30	Thank you, Mr President. You answered the first part of Helir-Valdor Seeder's question concerning questions. But what about the calls? Because it must be followed by some kind of discussion and discussion where members of the Riigikogu can participate. I think that this issue, too, is extremely important in this context. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U31	Thank you. I agree that this is extremely important, but the framework of the law has been specifically presented here. When there is an overview, only the representatives of the political groups have a say. If there are questions, the number of questions is the discretion of the board. And, as I said, the Bureau has considered this time that everyone on this agenda has one question. But I can also tell you that tomorrow in the Bureau we will discuss whether there could be two issues. Thank you very much. I will now go back to the adoption of the agenda, and I will begin with the adoption of the agenda in such a way as to inform the Chamber Caller that there is now a vote here. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the fourth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U32	The agenda for this week has been confirmed with 49 abstentions, 18 abstentions and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U33	Let us now go to the agenda. The first item is the continuation of the second reading of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 475. The rapporteur has been Mr Luck Hillak, member of the Social Affairs Committee. I ask him to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors! This draft was discussed again by the Committee on Social Affairs on 1 February this year and by the deadline laid down, no amendments were received by 31 January. However, we have discussed again the amendments relating to the withdrawal by bailiffs of support for the mitigation of energy prices. On 27 January, who was on the spot or following the transmission of the sitting, [they know] that it received more of the attention of the plenary assembly. The Social Affairs Committee's advisor Heidi Barot explained that the proposal aims to amend the retroactive entry into force clause so that the retroactive entry into force remains valid only for the Employment Services and Benefits Act. This concerns the payment of unemployment benefit. However, as regards the implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, a retroactive adaptation would simply create additional complications and this is not possible. We also had some questions and answers. I asked myself how much energy support has been seized to cover debts and, on the other hand, how the retroactive calculation of unemployment benefit will take place in the context of this draft. Jaan Lõõnik, Counsellor of the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators, explained that the bailiff receives energy support for the person's own professional account only through the attachment of the debtor's bank account. I'm sorry, one moment, I lost track of... In short, every decision to roll back is individual, he explained that again. At that point, two applications were submitted to bailiffs, which stated that please do not take this support from me to cover old debts. Kadi Kanarbik explained that as regards the payment of unemployment benefit, the allowance is paid to the unemployed once a month and is currently about 292 euros. If monthly incomes exceed the threshold for unemployment benefit due to energy support, the unemployment allowance will be suspended, but the entire period of payment of the allowance will be extended by the suspended period. And he also noted that at least this moment had not come to the unemployment fund any announcement that anyone would have suspended the payment of this allowance. But he explained that since energy price relief can also be asked for several months, there may be cases like this here in the coming months and it is worthwhile to be prepared. The chairman of the committee, Siret Kotka, asked whether the bailiffs in the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators had been informed that such changes of law were pending in the Riigikogu. He got the answer, yes, they've been informed. In addition, the chairwoman of the Commission asked whether the debtor's income had to be transferred to his personal account. Jaan Lõõnik replied that the statement of the subsidy for energy costs did not require the debtor's current account to be submitted but requested [consumption invoices]. The Commission's Chairwoman then put to the vote a proposal concerning the deadlines for entry into force. The part concerning unemployment benefit would apply retroactively from 1 January of this year and the part concerning the debt side would apply from the day following the publication of the Act. This proposal was supported by all the members of the Commission who were present. And the decision: the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose that the second reading be stopped. And here we are. All members of the Commission were in favour of this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U35	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U36	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I am simply asking, for the sake of legal clarity, that the people who are watching us at this point [know]. We are talking about the State Pension Insurance Act, but we are talking about bailiffs here, we are talking about compensation for energy costs, to calm down pensioners who may be wondering what is now, whether they have to declare the bankruptcy of an individual, otherwise bailiffs will come, or how energy is, perhaps someone wants to start reducing the ecological footprint of pensioners by now. We just know that if we don't give any clear answers, the conspiracy theories will live. How and in what way are bailiffs and energy cost compensation linked to pension insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U37	Thank you, I would say, for a very good question. Of course, people need clarity so that there is no confusion. These two amendments came because there are now exceptional subsidies concerning the easing of energy prices. In their implementation, the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators adopted on 13 January the view that this allowance was regarded as income, which means that it could be seized if necessary by bailiffs to cover debts. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice reacted immediately and developed an amendment which was sent to the Riigikogu on 20 January. On 24 January we discussed this in the Committee on Social Affairs, on 27 January in this very Chamber, and now again. These are the dates I mentioned simply to ensure that there is no wrong understanding here that these important proposals have been delayed in any way or that they have been received a long time ago. For your information, that is not the case. But yes, this does not directly concern pensioners, just the important amendments that now need to be adopted quickly to help people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U38	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Happiness! First of all, thank you. You're a very good defender of this bill, but I'm saying again that on January 13th, when it came out, we all reacted quickly, except the Ministry of Justice. If someone says that within a week the response is urgent, I would say that the Committee on Social Affairs reacted quickly. If the bill came on the 20th and the 23rd was on the agenda, it'll be fine. But how do you say there's gonna be another failure at the Justice Department? First of all, the flaw was that it was possible to be arrested, and the next time came the fault, which, fortunately, our really good social committee officials, led by Heidi, noticed. If it weren't for the second reading on Thursday a week ago, it would have been a glitch. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you feel about that? Is the Justice Department the only thing that comes up with proposals to improve the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U40	Thank you, good questioner! This assessment, I would say, is extremely subjective. This is in the sense that it is a new support, which is extraordinary. And if you do anything, it may reveal shortcomings, and the Justice Department reacted immediately. Yeah, a good questioner on the same day reacted on his Facebook wall, but this wall doesn't solve problems. The necessary change needed to be prepared so that all things were legally committed, and this was sent to the Riigikogu as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U41	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, like my colleague, Mr Kruusimäe, I would ask for a repeat of us, we are really being watched, looking at how this law is still being applied when bailiffs have already collected this amount today. How do bailiffs apply this law? Can people get any money back from them or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U43	Thank you for that question. As I pointed out in this review, two people have announced that their grant has been withheld for non-target purposes in terms of this support. These people are dealt with separately, their benefits are reviewed. I can't give you the head, but I think the situation is going to work out positively for these people. But those of you who haven't reported, we don't really know how many people there are today. There's been a lot of numbers going on here, I'd say there's a difference in magnitude. Some speak of hundreds of thousands. I also asked myself how many active enforcement procedures are currently under way. There are 35,000 of them. There aren't several hundred thousand. And if a person hasn't reported... The second option is that these people, firstly, whether they do not qualify for this support or secondly, have not yet submitted a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U44	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U45	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! It is understandable that the Social Affairs Committee's advisers found such a small mistake, but after 13 January there have also been quite a number of laws in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the process where proposals could have been made to this effect. That raises a question for me. On 27 January, we were discussing the 26th day sitting here, and then there was also a situation where one of the parents is in the bankruptcy of an individual. Is this also a technical error that could not perhaps have been dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but must be put into the competence of the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U46	Thank you. Now, this subject goes a long way from this Commission debate that I am presenting here. We really didn't discuss it. But what can I say is why these two amendments are in the draft sent by the Committee on Social Affairs? Why did this happen? Such a procedure for this draft was the fastest option to receive these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U47	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U48	Thank you. You claim that there are 35,000 [applicants], but the same morning on the radio said that some 40,000 people have applied for this energy compensation. According to Julian Inkasso's information, there were 91000 people who could fall down there in 2021. These records have not been taken from anyone's mind. But how do you feel about this energy benefits theme is not the first time you need to correct a mistake. The Ministry of Justice made this mistake, but it was also a mistake before they wanted the municipalities to pay it out. It was not legal either, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs had to improve in exactly the same way as the Committee on Social Affairs today improves it. At this point, does it seem like the government wants to do better, but it turns out to be as usual?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U49	Thank you. The government wants to help people, and that's what it does. If implementation can be improved, it must be done, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U50	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U51	Thank you. Colleagues keep speaking here, admitting themselves that only because they are being listened to and watched. They create the impression that it is the better part of people who are indebted to others and who receive help from the state and do not pay their own bills. I'd like to tilt that impression a little bit. Please tell me what the legal basis is for us to distinguish such a single debt from other debts at all. I would say in my sense that yes, some minimum living expenses should be those to which creditors do not reach. But I still think that debt is not the best way for mankind to be. What provision is it that protects people's basic needs, regardless of their debts, and what exactly can be improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U52	Thank you for that question. The main protection is that, [even after] the increase in energy prices, people would be left with the money for household, heating and electricity costs, so that they would not have to make an additional debt for themselves. I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U53	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, I will take up Mr Ligi's question. I also think that we must, above all, create a system such that people are not indebted. And here, I'm sure Jürgen Ligi and his party mates have a contribution. Maybe this hasn't worked out very well lately. Now a question for the waitress. What are these amounts anyway? Jürgen Ligi asked for the amount of money that a person should have in his hand so he could cope with. Maybe you're helping people in this hall really understand this problem. Should we worry about people coping or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U55	Thank you. As far as electricity and heating bills are concerned, this amount is not directly fixed. As regards people's livelihoods, basic needs, today's subsistence limit is 150 euros. If you ask my opinion, I think it should be bigger, because the latest calculations show that the real need is around EUR 200.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U56	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U57	Thank you. Now, I agree that the limit of coping should be higher than the situation has changed. Well, I think it should be a little higher anyway. After all, the number of beneficiaries is relatively small and budget support for more people would be feasible. I would have preferred this approach in all this policy. But is it not the case that the income support still covers the cost that a person makes of electricity? Where's the mismatch? I didn't really read it from the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U58	Thank you. Because all the bills are different for people, I can't tell if they're all electric or not. I owe you an answer here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U59	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U60	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about benefits, energy cost benefits. Before this, it was claimed that [these people] were few whose money could be seized. But I looked at the review in January 2021: it is known that there were at least 235,000 payment failures in Estonian private individuals. And the number of persons with payment disruptions was estimated at 91000. That's a considerable amount. There is no point in some members of the Riigikogu, who are actually very social in heart, here to puff and puff. If we're talking about this compensation, I'm terribly embarrassed about it. Let's get started. I don't think I'm wrong that it was October when it was loudly called that compensation would come. October! And they said they'd make amends from September. November came when the officials came to the conclusion that the compensation could not be paid by the local authorities because there was no such law. This is a good example of the rapid reaction of the Riigikogu. This decision was made in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and it was placed on the clap at the second reading of one law. There was no interruption, I must admit, it was accepted that compensation would be paid in January. The reaction at the Ministry of Justice didn't start until we all started to pronounce in the paper. Then it took a week. All week! That is when, thanks to the urgent response of the Social Affairs Committee, we arrived in this Chamber. Thank God it was canceled on the 27th. Once again, I would like to congratulate: in fact, we have very good officials working with the heart in the Riigikogu, thank God, in the committees. Another mistake was found. If you take these errors in these laws and in the decision of the government, [the fingers of one hand are not enough to count them]. The end result is that it doesn't work either. Rumor has it that this number was, if I'm not mistaken, over 400,000 who it was supposed to help. At the same time, I read in the press that statements have been made around 40,000. 400,000 and 40,000, that's 10%. Many people who are entitled to this help are not going to ask for it. We have now received February's energy bills - electricity, gas and heat bills. I don't know how much support you had there. Well, on average, I think, 20 to 30 euros. The amounts are exactly the same because the price of electricity has fallen a little. The Prime Minister said here in his speech that everything depends on gas. I also did a survey on Estonia. There is virtually no electricity produced by gas in Estonia. And you know why? Because Elering has Elering's only gas station. If the government had made a decision in one minute and two government sub-offices, Elering and Eesti Energia, had given gas generation, electricity generation to Eesti Energia, then at the moment when 1,000 euros paid megawatt-hour, it could have started without breaking the law. Then it would have cost 20 euros. And that was the missing 300 megawatt-hours. We can't make decisions so people can take care of themselves. I, too, personally have [high] energy consumption, but with the salary of my member of the Riigikogu, I can pay it, even though the bill has increased more than three times. But I'm looking at young families with kids at home. They will all get a little more than that 1200 euros to start asking. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U61	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U62	Let's say you've calculated that your winter [electricity] cost is 150 euros, but this bill is going to be 600 plus. You have a small child at home, his mother is on maternity leave or maternity leave, you earn a little over 1500 euros, you have acquired a home like most young people with bank loans, considering that it is 400-500 euros. In order to work, [family] has had to lease at least one car. You have to pay for that every month. However, they have not taken into account the fact that unexpectedly, the monthly cost of EUR 400.500 has to be paid more than usual. Are we among the five richest countries? If Norway [rewards the cost of electricity], if [the price of electricity is higher than] 70 euros per megawatt-hour, then Estonia will start at 120 euros. What offends me most about this is that those people who have been buying fixed-price electricity for ten years will not receive a single cent of compensation. Anyone who has played on the stock market and actually earned income for the last ten years, except for the last three or four months, will now receive [electricity] cheaper than those who have paid a fixed price. For example, yesterday electricity was much cheaper than 120 euros in megawatt-hours. The second problem, which I believe remains unresolved on this issue, remains. If it was decided that gas would be used to compensate for this volume and so much for electricity, how is it? If one [family] uses the exact same amount of both and is compensated, then maybe the other one has minimal electricity consumption and heats it with gas. Private houses don't get compensation at all. And the third, I think it's pretty incredible: now it's so that the apartment buildings are essentially 100% compensated. There's no volume limit on how much you spend heating gas. But once you've built a home, you work in the municipality, you push the snow, you mow the lawn, you don't get paid for it. You have to pay considerably more than [living] in an apartment building with all the comforts. There was a debate here today, a discussion on how much it should be possible for the Riigikogu to discuss how much it should be possible to ask questions and give speeches. This issue, the same energy crisis, is that we are paying tens and tens now or, in fact, hundreds of millions of subsidies, perhaps there would have been much simpler solutions. We have always wanted the middle class in Estonia. We have always supported young families to set up a home, and we have supported the construction of private homes. The last three months have shown that everything that has been said in Estonia for 30 years, how we support people, has been turned upside down. All those who have built their own homes seem to have lost their way and are now paying for the unfinished work of the government. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U63	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U64	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here, but I came up with what my colleague Aivar Koka said. Aivar was talking about 40,000 who have applied, now more than 50,000 and about 10,000 coming each week. But it is important to say that Aivar's views, which he said at the end, can be accepted. All that for the middle class. But as far as we know at the moment, you remember, I think there was assistance under the law on atmospheric air protection, but most of the 70 million remain unused. 30 [million] approximately has been used and 40 may remain unused. The fact is, too, that these measures are fast, over-the-counter and the possibility of obtaining relatively little is not likely to motivate many people to use it. So all in all, it's a good thing that something's been done, but on the other hand, what's its efficiency and aimlessness, no one knows right now. That's the main thing I wanted to say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U65	Thank you. There's no more calls. Sorry, there's still a request. Since I did not close the negotiations, the negotiations will continue. Riigikogu speech chair, Happy Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors! Just some of the arguments that, I feel, want to say back. First of all, why are we discussing these changes here as a matter of urgency? The reason is simple: because obviously no one here wants the energy subsidies that are currently being made for people to be taken away from someone to pay off their debts. I believe all the ambassadors support this idea. It is understandable that since this is an exceptional support that was quickly developed and has not been used before, not all bottlenecks could be foreseen. No matter who's in the government, no matter who makes these decisions, everyone happens. But because we are discussing these mistakes here today, it shows a rapid response to solve the problems. It was about numbers, how many people have asked for support, and how many people could be affected by this change. As of Friday, 48000 applications were received from the municipalities, of which 23,000 were granted. From the Ministry of Justice, I also asked very specifically to understand how broad this problem is, how many people there are, how many individuals who are subject to active enforcement proceedings, so that they may be charged with the old debts. There are 35,000 of these people. At the same time, in a week without sitting, I met a young mother who had listened to the debate we had here on 27 January, and she very sadly asked why they were generalising why it is said that all those people who are going to ask for this support are automatically indebted. It's not like that. And, therefore, my question in the Committee on Social Affairs: how many people have this support gone to cover debts? Two statements, two responses have been received. Let us try to understand and less generalize, not to put a debtor's label on people's foreheads. It's not fair and it's not right. In addition, as regards support for energy costing, it must be said that the Code of Enforcement Procedure states that a person must be guaranteed the amount of money needed to heat the dwelling. This is still the case, but since the specific support was decided on 13 January by the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, this problem could not have occurred earlier. On 13 January it was clear that there was a problem. On 14 January, the Ministry of Justice reacted and, as soon as possible, the necessary amendments were sent forward, which we are discussing here today. Hopefully, on Wednesday, we will adopt these amendments, this draft, so that we can help people. And please don't brand all those in need as debtors, they're not. And do not in any way [whelm] when people need help or dare to ask for help. I hope that you will all support this draft and these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U67	Thank you. Any more calls? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 475 be discontinued. But before we finish this, we will examine the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been received. This is the proposal of the commission, which is the Committee on Social Affairs, and the position is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment and that concludes the second reading of draft 475.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U68	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Leo Kunnas, Anti Half Office, Siim Pohlak, Kert Kingo, Kalle Grünthal, Rene Kokk, Reuben Kaalep, Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Riho Breivel, Helle-Moonika Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Jaak Valge, Alar Laneman, Merry Aart, Mart Helme and Paul Puustustusmaa on the 13th Christmas Day of 2021. The inquiry is about Estonia's efforts to support Ukraine and to increase the presence of allied forces in the Baltics. An inquiry shall bear the number 100 and shall be answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. I ask Leo Kunnas, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, There are two types or varieties of enquiries known to have occurred. Since there are 20 days to reply, some will become less important and they will receive an answer, or they will no longer be topical, and others will be more important. Hopefully, this question will be among the others, as well as the other questions on security that we will be presenting in the near future. This year, actually already last year, Russia has already, for the second time, concentrated a large contingent of more than 100,000 people on the borders of Ukraine. Today, according to recent data, the [military] figure is already 130,000, of which 15,000 are in Belarus. The years of a weak-intensity armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine, where almost every week a Ukrainian military soldier has been wounded or killed, can escalate into a full-scale Russian military aggression against Ukraine. It is clear that Russia considers Ukraine to be in its sphere of influence, and the current Russian leadership is doing everything in its power to bring Ukraine back there. Ukraine's accession to NATO and the European Union would be an unbearable defeat for Russia, as it would inevitably put an end to the great ambitions of our eastern neighbour. It is also clear that following the defeat of Article 5 of NATO in August of [the previous year], the leaders of both Russia and China may see Joe Biden, the President of the United States, as a hesitant and indecisive leader. China's temptation to use military force in Taiwan is growing, which in turn will also affect Russia towards greater aggression. Western European countries are becoming increasingly energy dependent on Russia. After the closure of the coal and nuclear power plants, the fixed capacity of the German power plants is mainly based on Russian gas. The dependence on Russia's energy carriers severely limits the diplomatic and military freedom of action of our European allies. Nevertheless, NATO should speak to Russia [in an unambiguous manner]. Ukraine cannot be decided behind Ukraine; Eastern European issues cannot be resolved across the heads of NATO's Eastern European allies. The fall of Ukraine in Russia's sphere of influence would make the situation of the Baltic States extremely vulnerable. Therefore, the joint, closely coordinated political and diplomatic support of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to Ukraine is very important. Equally important are the joint diplomatic efforts to increase the presence of the Allied forces in the Baltic States in the current considerably deteriorating security situation. NATO still lacks regional command in the Baltic States capable of managing joint operations. There is no permanent presence of NATO Air Force in Latvia and the presence of Naval [units] in the Baltic Sea is limited to exercises and port visits. The presence of the Allied army as just one battalion and a battle group in each Baltic country does not correspond to the established security situation. The permanent location of a U.S. unit of company size in each Baltic country would have a very important political weight. The message from the Baltic States to the allies should be clear and unambiguous in the concept of the so-called mine wire or tripwire. The possibility of occupying the Baltic States in part or in full due to the limited presence of the Allied forces cannot be acceptable to Estonia and our southern neighbours. That's why we're asking you a whole bunch of questions in six blocks, good Prime Minister. The first block concerns the common Ukrainian policy of the three Baltic states, the second block concerns the common positions of the three Baltic states regarding the location of the Allied Forces, the third block concerns the various steps you have taken in the Cabinet, the National Defence Council and elsewhere. What the Foreign Minister has managed to do is this is the fourth block. Block 5: What has the Minister of Defence been able to do? And block six: what has our permanent representative, the ambassador, been able to do with NATO? Do not take these questions as malicious. I would ask myself exactly the same questions in each of the roles of the responsible official, i.e. you, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of the Defence Forces or the Director of the State Chancellery, and I would like to try to find the best possible answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U70	Thank you. I now ask the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears the number 100.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U71	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Firstly, absolutely I do not take it in any way maliciously, but on the contrary, the security situation is very difficult and these are issues that need to be discussed. For this reason, I also made a political statement before you on 19 January here to dismantle these issues, but there are indeed many more questions that the members of the Riigikogu have. I am very sorry that the members of the Riigikogu did not really want to hear what the Minister of Defence had to think about this. With procedural questions, he was deprived of the opportunity to speak. But he'll probably have the opportunity to present his views in other formats. But I'm going to go to the question. The first question: "Do the three Baltic States have a common Ukrainian policy? What are its main positions? As Prime Minister, what have you done to coordinate it with your Lithuanian and Latvian colleagues? What have you done to support Ukraine's political and diplomatic support in a situation where Russia is prepared to negotiate over Ukraine's head? Has Estonia declared a diplomatic protest to the US administration on this matter? " First of all, I would like to say that our cooperation is not only with the Baltic Prime Ministers, but also with the Prime Ministers of other NATO Member States. It was only on Friday that I met both the Lithuanian and Latvian Prime Ministers in Riga to discuss the security situation and also the policies towards Ukraine. Of course, each sovereign state is shaping its own foreign policy, but I assure you that we have regularly shared these views. The main directions for supporting Ukraine in the three Baltic countries are as follows: Firstly, we will use every opportunity to support Ukraine politically. Secondly, we are also prepared to provide military assistance to Ukraine. And thirdly, in addition to the military side, we also share many views on energy policy, for example. And, as I said, not only in the Baltics is unity important, but actually in NATO and the European Union as a whole. We are not coordinating [our actions] with the Baltic States but also with other Member States in a much wider way, and we have worked very hard to keep this coherent and clear line in NATO and in the European Union. I'm sure we talk to allies all the time. It was only yesterday that I spoke to the French President about this too, and the principle is that we can have a dialogue with Russia, but we will not accept any agreement that has a negative impact on Estonia's security or undermines NATO's collective defence. So this wholeheartedly supporting Ukraine also means that the European Union, in cooperation with the United States, is developing a robust package of sanctions in case Russia is escalating its military activities in Ukraine. In addition to diplomatic and political support, Ukrainians also need and ask for practical support to protect their country. To this end, we have worked with our allies and partners to provide them with arms support. In cooperation with Germany, we deliver to Ukraine an Estonian company-produced field hospital and, following recent cyber attacks, we offered support to Ukraine in this area as well. The second question: "Do the three Baltic States have common positions regarding the presence of the Allied Forces in the Baltics? What are they like? What efforts have you and your Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues made to coordinate positions and to make the Allied States and NATO bodies aware? Do you understand the nature of NATO's current so-called mine wire concept and what your assessment of its practical application as Prime Minister of Estonia is? " Just maybe at the beginning of the comment, I say that in English it really is the tripwire, or miinitrate, but in Estonian the term "saviour" is used to mark this concept. Yes, the three Baltic States have common positions on the presence of allied forces in our region. First, Baltic Air Security since 2014 and, since 2017, NATO Battle Groups in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. In Estonia, this group is led by Great Britain, Latvia, Canada, Lithuania, Germany and Poland, the United States. I specifically point out that two of these countries are nuclear forces and one of them leads the NATO battle group Tapa. NATO's battle group in Estonia consists of units from Great Britain, France and Denmark, which means that an attack on Estonia would also be an attack on the troops of these countries. We share the view with the Baltic States that the protection and deterrence of NATO's eastern wing must be strengthened at an accelerated pace, and we have been constantly working in this direction. When I attended the NATO summit in Brussels last June, a number of decisions were taken in this area, and I also welcome Britain's decision to consider double the increase in [the unit] of 900 troops here in the coming months. Estonia has also had and is coming up with joint allies' exercises. The third question: Have you discussed the deteriorating security situation and the increase in the threat of war in a government office? What conclusions have you reached? Have you discussed the same issues with the President of the Republic or with the National Defence Council? Have you proposed that the President of the Republic take concrete steps in the context of his foreign policy and diplomatic activities? " The answer to all questions is yes. But now for longer. The Security Commission of the Government of the Republic also discussed today and the Cabinet regularly discusses the security situation in our region and the potential threat to the Republic of Estonia. As a result, we have decided to increase Estonia's own contribution to security. We have increased the capacity of the Defence Forces to react quickly and also discussed more broadly border guards and population protection issues. It was only last week, on 2 February, that there was a debate in the National Defence Council, where I pointed out three main directions. Firstly, the diplomatic work that we are doing to strengthen the deterrence towards Russia. Secondly, continued support for Ukraine, as I have already said. And thirdly, we must also focus on our readiness in the crisis that has developed. There is no specific military threat to Estonia, but we must take into account the possibility that if Russia expands aggression, it will have a clear impact on our security, our economy, various aspects of society. Question 4: "What has the Minister of Foreign Affairs been able to do about these same issues? Is his steps towards a border agreement with Russia adequate in the context of the past? " The Minister of Foreign Affairs has worked for exactly the same purposes, and thanks to close diplomatic communication, cooperation and mutual understanding between allies and partners has been strengthened. There is a need to move forward with the ratification of the border agreements, but indeed, since it has been agreed that we will do it at the same time, there is no progress in this at the moment. The next question is what has the Minister of Defence been able to do to shape the common positions of the three Baltic states regarding the presence of the Allied Forces in the Baltic States and the Baltic Sea? The Minister of Defence has also promoted cooperation, understanding and unity between allies and partners at all levels, the aim being to prevent Russia's aggression and the threat of extending it against Ukraine. And the sixth question is what has Estonia's permanent and plenipotentiary with NATO been able to do to shape the common positions of the three Baltic States. Like the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, the permanent and Plenipotentiary Ambassador to NATO has amplified all these messages and taken these same steps to achieve our goal. I can confirm that Estonia's views on NATO are well represented and protected, in accordance with our security interests, both at ambassadors' and at all other levels. In parallel, preparations are already under way for the NATO summit in a few months' time, in which new decisions will be taken to modernise the structure of the forces to ensure the necessary troops in the right time and place. The same strengthening of NATO's eastern wing is also an issue that we are constantly pursuing. Finally, I stress that NATO is united and committed to protecting its allies. NATO always responds to any deterioration in the security situation, including by improving collective defence. We always do everything we have to to protect our allies. This fundamental principle of NATO was repeated by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg at a press conference held on 13 January with President Alar Karis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U72	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I am pleased that you are engaged in a great deal of foreign policy, and you have also been commended for it. Generally speaking, I agree with those words of praise. But I want to draw attention to a trap that's easy to get into. While you quite rightly advised President Macron that we are dealing with the common Western front, you also said, I quote from the newspaper: 'We hope to see progress in the implementation of the Minsk Treaties and we support France's efforts in this direction. "The Minsk agreements are anti-Ukraine, and we have just had the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence here, who said that they were not dealt with in Ukraine and were imposed. Generally, Ukrainian friends do not pressure this country to fill them, and I hope that Estonia will not join those who are still called Ukrainian rapists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U74	Thank you. No, Estonia certainly does not exert any pressure on Ukraine. We have kept this line very clearly, that Ukraine must not be put under pressure, because Ukraine is, at the moment, the one that is going to be attacked. And, in my opinion, all these thematic developments that ask what Ukraine could offer for the deescalation of, in my opinion, they are already traps. Ukraine has not created this situation; Russia has created this situation, and Russia is also the only one who can deescalate. Here, yes, NATO has been united, which is very, very good. Coherence has been maintained at political level and must be maintained. There will be conversations or dialogue with Russia, but it certainly must not cross over Ukraine's head.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U75	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U76	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! The French President, Emmanuel Macron, is currently in Moscow. Yesterday, Macron said that Russia has legitimate security interests in Ukraine. He also announced that he would be close to concluding an agreement with Russia that would ease the tensions in Ukraine. Do you approve of the views of Macron on the security interests of Russia? Do you have any idea what the agreement with Russia that Macron is talking about will be like and what NATO's concessions would be in this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U77	Thank you. The President of France is the head of a NATO Member State. He has no right to speak on behalf of NATO as a whole or to make agreements. That's one. I do not know all his views, but in the conversations I have had, I have always stressed that any step towards Russia [means] will receive something that they did not have before. After all, they, at gunpoint, are gathering forces around Ukraine; they are threatening Ukraine. All signs indicate that they want to attack Ukraine. Now, if they start negotiating to offer them something more, so to speak, then they'll get something more. It's a trap. As I said in my security statement to the Riigikogu, it is a classic Soviet negotiating tactic. There's always someone who offers you something you didn't have before, and finally you have a quarter or a half of what you didn't have in the first place and that doesn't belong to you in any way. At least it seems to me, having been in constant contact with the leaders of the various allies, that this message has arrived. I hope so. Right now, we have really kept this unified line, and I think it is very good that we are keeping it. There are different concepts in the area of tactics about how things have to be done, but in my opinion, we still have the same views in the basic principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U78	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U79	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! We are now in the world media because we wanted to help Ukraine, but Germany decided that it would ignore our wish. And that our goodwill is visible here, but you have been critical of Germany's position. Can we still use diplomatic channels? Can we repeat our request? Is there any hope that Germany will reconsider? They are now in such a fluctuating position and very defetist, do not want to hand over any weapons, practical weapons of war to Ukraine? Are there any further steps that we can take to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U80	Thank you. I'm going to Germany on Thursday to see the German Chancellor. What I say there is that it is our desire to help Ukraine also militaryly. It's our will. The other Member States have the right to decide on the aid they provide to Ukraine, and we do not have the right to exert such direct pressure on them. Yes, we have agreements that they must give us our consent, but in the end, if Germany does not give it, it will be their decision. I guess they're helping Ukraine the other way around. What is important is that we are helping Ukraine with all the means we can get.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U81	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The continuation of the previous question in its own way. I am concerned about how Estonia announced that it intends to support Ukraine. [In this] there are signs of unprofessional [action]. After all, it is well - known practice that the contract determines where [purchased] weapons can be transferred. [arm support] will be called down first, and then it will become clear that Germany will not allow it. There was a announcement today that Israel would warn us that they would not allow their weapons to be sent to Ukraine either. What's with all the raping? I am now asking, in the light of the Israeli message, if we do not have a matter of thought here, we must look carefully at how we obtain weapons. Because the example of both Germany and Israel says that we, as an independent state, are limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U83	Thank you. First of all, it was all the right steps. That agreement was requested, as it had to be asked correctly. The fact that this information leaked from somewhere is a separate issue. We have done all the steps that [were required] in the right way. Now, second of all, the status of these weapons. They've been given to protect us, and I don't see any failure if we need to use these weapons to protect ourselves. At the moment, we want to give them to Ukraine so that they can defend themselves. But there are agreements that require this agreement, and these agreements we follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U84	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your speech you referred to the Tartu Peace Treaty and the need for negotiations. This is not specifically related to [this inquiry], but in your speech you referred to it earlier and said that ratification of the border treaty must go on. That is what you said: ratification of the border treaty must go on. We know that the border agreement with Russia is based purely on the Tartu Peace Treaty, because there are no other borders. Does the continuation of this border agreement in the context of your reference mean that the Tartu Peace Treaty must be partly annulled or how do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U86	Thank you. After all, one principle is that we do not have territorial requirements for each other. The main great value of Tartu peace was that Russia recognised Estonia as an independent state. That's the main thing. And indeed, the border agreement has been negotiated, it is simply a matter of ratification, [based on] the limit that this line of reference has agreed. That's the control line you've supported in your government, in the sense that it was then set up to establish a border barrier on the control line. In this sense, your actions have shown that you recognise the limit we now have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U87	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U88	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to see that I cannot sit in this Chamber, I have to watch TV in my room, because as a result of the energy policy run by your government, the Riigikogu has too little money to heat. It's unbearably cold here for work. Okay, here we go. I'm listening to this story, and I don't even really know what you're talking about. It's all so vague. We see the Germans driving their policies towards Russia in some way, the French driving their policies towards Russia in some way. We don't really understand American politics either. Some 8,500 soldiers are allowed on the east wing, but we don't know where they're going or how they're gonna be. Then we read that we, along with the Latvians, are getting armored for a crazy amount of money, even though the armored vehicles are not our biggest power gap. I don't really understand what our government is doing. I have the key question: how much have we been able to coordinate our foreign policy towards Ukraine or towards Russia with Germany and France, in addition to the Baltic States?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U89	Thank you. Listening to you makes it seem like you're not listening to me, but you're saying you don't like it. "I didn't get your letter, and besides, I didn't like it. " And I don't know, it seems very warm in this room, probably people's warmth is different. It doesn't look cold in here. But our defence policy has also been agreed on a national defence development plan. And the steps we have taken have been agreed there, in fact, on a cross-party basis. As far as Germany and France are concerned, of course they are allies in NATO. I think it is a great success that we have so far maintained a very clear unity between NATO's allies. For example, when the NATO-Russian Council was held, Russia was very negatively surprised that all NATO's allies were actually saying one thing. And it was [the story] that Russia did not have the right to say who could or could not belong to NATO. Similarly, there should be no saying in Russia about the security architecture of Europe. Today, NATO has jointly made demands on Russia and the ball is in Russia's hands to respond to these demands. Those demands have been up for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U90	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U91	Thank you. To begin with, according to the reply procedure: the fact that we support the construction of a protective fence on the temporary control line does not necessarily mean that we are prepared to abandon our own territories under the Tartu Peace Treaty. But that's it. This question was made in mid-December, but let's talk about modern things. Macron said we shouldn't expect Moscow to take unilateral steps to alleviate the tension. We shouldn't expect this. So what kind of concessions does he want to make? And the second question is that the press has announced that the US is, as if, ready to enter into negotiations on the deployment of missiles and units in Eastern Europe as well as on the conduct of exercises. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U92	Thank you. First of all, as far as France is concerned, as I said, the French President has a meeting with Putin. The President of France has no mandate, no mandate to speak on behalf of NATO or the European Union. France is simply a Member State of the European Union and NATO. Now, as far as the US is concerned, the positions of the US have been very clear. Similarly, we have been assured repeatedly that nothing can be reconciled about you without you, or in English: nothing will be agreed without you about you. There is nothing going to be negotiated for you, and these approvals have been given to us at different levels, and I believe they will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U93	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'll ask you again. The final question of the second [questions] block, the so-called tripwire or trigger concept. I asked you for your assessment, I'm going to ask you again because I didn't get an answer. In the current security situation, is this concept of trigger still adequate, or should we, along with our allies, create a much stronger and clearer concept of how we are still creating a military presence and deterrence here in the present circumstances? I'd like your position on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U95	Thank you. Indeed, this concept of trigger or mine wire, or tripwire, has been part of the deterrence strategy. In principle, this means that less military force is present on the ground than a possible opponent, which guarantees military resistance without inciting aggression against the enemy. In view of the various reasons why wars begin, one reason has also been the arms race. But NATO is a defence alliance, and that means that NATO is not really going to attack anyone, and all these troops are still needed for defence. In fact, I believe that bringing combat groups to different countries is part of the plan to strengthen deterrence. Now these forces are being expanded, and this also confirms that the actual military attack on us would be a military attack on any NATO Member State. Article 5 is this basic guarantee. And I am pleased to say that indeed these negotiations with the various allies have been very close. The Belgian Prime Minister will be here on Wednesday morning. They too are on this air security mission, and he too can talk about how to increase the presence. But I'm certainly not a defense expert like you. However, it seems to me that what we are doing on the east wing for deterrence or for strengthening the east wing, we are taking quite a number of different steps not only in Estonia but also in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and other Member States to strengthen NATO's positions. And it's all about preventing aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U96	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U97	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Finland's President Sauli Niinistö has been talking all along since 2012 about the importance of a debate with a neighbour, Russia, and he has always put a very important emphasis on this particular topic. We have talked a great deal about allied relations and NATO, which never leaves its members alone. However, somehow this crisis, the security crisis, has perhaps created a new shadow in Europe as a whole, with which we are wrestling in relations between sovereign states. Like the same gun help. We are in diplomatic relations every day, but when we really need to go to help the weaker in an aggression situation, we get stuck in diplomatic discourses. Have we forgotten anything? Have we failed to do anything with these countries here in Europe, hoping too much for NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U98	Thank you. Our defence is based on two pillars: one is collective protection and the other is our own protection. We don't really neglect our defenses. On the contrary, we have already invested 2.43% of our gross domestic product in more and more defence capabilities, increasing defence costs. And if you think about it, you can also reverse that question. In fact, we are doing quite a lot of things on a diplomatic level to strengthen the defence stance, also to help Ukraine. One is the military assistance that we wish to provide and provide, but there is also political support and economic support for Ukraine. For example, the European Union came up with a comprehensive package to support Ukraine so that its economy does not collapse. I'd focus on all the things we do, not a few things we don't. Again, each Member State has the right to decide which steps it takes. We wouldn't want anyone to tell us that you have to do this either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U99	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! My question is partly motivated by your response to Leo Kunnas. You said war broke out as a result of the arms race. How do you assess whether Estonia is participating in the arms race today? Is Estonia part of this, or are we still working to increase our defence capabilities to protect ourselves from an aggressive neighbour?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U101	Thank you. I was actually referring to a book about wars. There it is for one reason [presented]. But I'm not linking it to the fact that there's an arms race going on right now. Is this any kind of problem? Well, if you look at the size of the troops, there is no way to say that the [units] we have here would somehow be a threat to Russia. Furthermore, if Russia is to say that NATO is as if aggressive, then in fact only 6% of the Russian border coincides with the NATO membership border. So there is no way that there is a threat. It's a Russian narrative, it's their propaganda they want to present. But once again, NATO is definitely a defence alliance, not an aggressor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U102	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U103	I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U104	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Now, I'm going to analyze some of the answers, and we're going to think about what else we can do. As far as the coordination of the three Baltic States [of activities] is concerned, perhaps our policy would become much stronger than Poland would be involved, because Poland and the Baltic States have very close common interests, and perhaps Romania too. There are countries that may not be so involved and are difficult to involve, but Poland is the first to come into question. With regard to practical assistance, we had a German topic up here, then Germany had a very good plan to give Ukraine six out-of-field hospitals, i.e. pay for the hospitals that we produce. The first one's being handed over today, but the back of this plan is now missing somewhere. Today we heard that Germany no longer had the money for this. Of these six field hospitals, the real benefits for the Ukrainian armed forces in the event of war would be much more than many smaller things that we could do. And if there are certain restrictions in Germany, it is reasonable that Germany should do something in those areas where it can do something, for example to push this project forward, so that it can still find a solution. But now I'm focusing most on the second point, the presence of the Allied units. Here we actually need a fundamental change. I am very critical of this tripwire, or trigger concept, because it does not really respond to our security situation at all. It is the same medal with two sides, one half of which is capable of national defence. Neither the concept of national defence, nor the concept of mine wire, can be met by our security situation, and they must change. How, then, can we make this change? This is also why a common policy of the three Baltic states is needed, as well as the involvement of Poland and other allies, or interested countries in Eastern Europe. The first problem is the problem of management. If military action breaks out here, the allies don't really have a competent management body here. We need a commanding officer in the Baltic States capable of running joint operations. It will be very difficult to create once the war has begun. It's gotta be there in advance. By way of combined operations, I mean that this command will be able to operate both land, sea and air operations. And it has to be in here because from outside the Baltics it is not possible to control the defence of the Baltics. It is not possible to protect Stalingrad by leading it from outside Stalingrad, or by leading it from outside Berlin, if I give an example of World War II. The problem of governance is the most important. The headquarters of the North Division, it's actually a trained division, it can't perform this function at all. If we believe it can fulfill it, we will deceive ourselves. So the problem with management is number one. The second, of course, is the problem of the size of the troops. The forces of one tactical battle group of the army, or battalion group, in each of the Baltic countries, are not in line with the current security situation. We know the British are bringing in another group for a while now. At the same time, the same group is also needed in Latvia and Lithuania. It is not clear whether Germany will bring anything to Lithuania or not, but it is clear that these units should grow into units the size of the brigade. Because if military action were to break out, it would be very difficult for Poland to support them in any way, because it is clear that, given the practical military cooperation between Russia and Belarus, they would cut the Suwałki corridor. We just need more troops here. The same is true of the air force. Yes, we have Ämaris fighters, now we have 4 + 6 or 10. The same is true in Lithuania, the forces have been strengthened, but there is basically no air base in Latvia. The Finns won't get 64 fighters for nothing. They have a larger territory, and they have taken into account how much air force they need to fight in principle, rationally, if they should come. We should certainly support Latvia in advance so that the air base can be fixed and that is where the permanent air contingent of the allies will come in. Similarly, the allies' naval vessels should move around more in our waters. All these steps need to be taken. It is clear that certain steps are already under way, but [all the necessary] steps will not be taken if we are simply satisfied with what is being offered to us and do not follow up on what is really needed for all three Baltic States. In fact, this concept, that we allow our country to occupy, in whole or in part, you perceive it, is not politically acceptable to us. This is not acceptable to our people. Of course, the picture may be quite different from Washington, Brussels or London, but this is our picture, which we need to present more and more clearly to our allies. Maybe one more thing to fix, if I just line this up. The National Defence Development Plan, as such, is not a cross-party document; it is a pure government document. Our criticism was in this too. We will be able to deal with these issues in the future and I will not stop at it for long. But it is clear that it was a mistake that it was even confirmed in the framework of 2% at the end of last year. The security situation was what it was back then. Even the Latvians have reached the point that they have officially declared that they will raise funding to 2.5%, not to mention Poland and Lithuania, which have already done so before. We're behind in that key. Of course, it is positive that the government has now made a decision on 380 million. But the question now is that all these things that we have not been able to do since the outbreak of the Ukrainian war are now suddenly to be done. It's about mid-earth air control, it's about armoured maneuvering. We don't know how long window we have left. But I wouldn't stop talking about it now, because we'll be there in the course of the next questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U106	Thank you. I now request Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U107	Thank you. Very briefly, as the next question is on the subject. First of all, Poland's involvement. I agree very much and that is why we have been in close contact with Poland. That I did not mention Poland separately, thanks or I do not know whether it can be said that thanks, or rather because of this situation in Belarus or because of this hybrid attack: we therefore have such an instigated path that Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia are talking together. We have had very united positions once we have spoken in NATO. Field hospitals are a positive example of what we can and will actually do together with Germany. And the last thing I wanted to say is, no, we are not satisfied with what is being offered to us. That's why we've been urging and asking and talking about strengthening the deterrence, strengthening the east wing. And we do it consistently and forcefully. But all further proposals are, of course, welcome. We keep this very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U108	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U109	Let us move on to the third question, or rather to the third item on the agenda, which is the second question. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Leo Kunnas, Jaak Valge, Merry Aarti, Henn Põlluaasa, Rene Koka, Uno Kaskpeiti, Siim Pohlak, Alar Lanemani, Kalle Grünthali, Urmas Reitelmanni, Reuben Kaalepi, Helle-Moonika Helme, Riho Breiveli, Mart Helme and Peeter Ernitsa, submitted on 10 January 2022. The inquiry is about military assistance to Ukraine and bears the number 105. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer that. I ask Leo Kunnas, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Let's pick up where we left off. On 30 December last year, ERR informed the Ministry of Defence that Estonia was planning to provide the anti-tank system Javelin missiles and 122-millimeter hatchets with ammunition as military aid to Ukraine. Ukraine, of course, is a regional superpower, one of the five countries in the world capable of producing arms, military equipment and ammunition in all its categories, with the exception of nuclear weapons. For example, even Great Britain is no longer such a country. Since the annexation of Crimea and the start of military activities in Eastern Ukraine in 2014, Ukrainian defence spending has been consistently much higher than in Estonia. For example, in 2020, they were 4.1% of GDP. Ukrainian artillery forces, especially the fire control system, have been thoroughly modernised in the light of military experience. Ukraine has no shortage of cannons, artillery weapons systems, both jet, mobile and towed cannons, far more than trained artillerymen. Of course, if the war broke out, those weapons systems would also be destroyed. Of course, Madam Prime Minister, no one expects you to become an artillery man. But in this whole situation, you will inevitably be forced to make a lot more of things clear than might otherwise be necessary. The critical minimum need for our own artillery is the artillery battalion in both infantry brigades, i.e. two battalions, each at least 18, but preferably 24 weapons systems, and artillery batteries in the defense circles, i.e. a total of four batteries with nine systems or five batteries with eight weapons systems. What's our status? We don't have all 24 motor cannons yet, or Thunders. They haven't arrived yet. And with jets, we're not even in the procurement phase. The development plan says we're gonna do all this, but it's just a 30-gun system for the total size of our artillery. You may feel that this is probably not enough for us. That is why we simply do not have any surplus artillery weapons systems that we can hand over to other countries. Currently, the 122-millimeters are in the 2nd Infantry Brigade and, of course, if they were to come up with new weapons systems, they would go to militias, because they do not have any support for the map now, except for mortars. The Javelins have received assistance in order, just as we have received assistance in order, from the United States. These missiles are quite expensive, with a price of EUR 75000 to EUR 130000. Both countries have managed to obtain much less than necessary. Maybe this isn't public information, we have several days of battle ammo, but it's clear that we're still a long way from the 14-day ammo target. The military assistance of Ukraine is a very noble objective and I fully support it. But there are two questions here: this aid should be critically necessary for the beneficiary, and it should not be at the expense of our own defence capabilities. In the first case, both conditions are not fulfilled. Of course, Javelin's missiles are very much needed by Ukraine, but we also need them ourselves. The consent of Germany and Finland is necessary; we have already talked about the problems that have come here. In this context, we have 11 questions here. And one more comment I have here is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have done homework with the German side before and asked them what their position was before we came up with it. Germany was inevitably in a pretty foolish situation now, as this topic rose quite widely in the world's press. With this, I would like to sum up [my story], we have already started to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U111	And now the Prime Minister can answer these questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U112	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Really, let's pick up where we left off. Before I go to specific questions, I would like to emphasise a few things. This general background. It does not have to be repeated that Russia's chances of starting aggression in Ukraine are very, very high. And Estonia wishes to contribute to the defence of Ukraine, to strengthening the fighting capacity and deterrence of the armed forces. In addition to political support, we have decided to provide the weapons and ammunition they really need. The choice of their weapons and ammunition has been made by the Minister of Defence, in accordance with the military advice of the Commander of the Defence Forces. We just want to provide [this type of] weapons and ammunition that Ukraine already owns and can be deployed quickly. Secondly, it is important to note that the quantities of weapons and ammunition to be surrendered have been selected in such a way as not to weaken Estonia's defence capabilities. So we're going to give Javelin's missiles, which we're going to update anyway, and we're going to be willing to give us howitzers and their ammunition, which is just a fraction of the amount we're left with. I'm going to the questions now. Firstly, how many anti-tank Javelin missiles are going to surrender to Ukraine? So far, there's a lot of information here that I can't say in front of the big hall, but I can tell you that the number of these missiles can be counted in tens. The exact number is not public because, clearly, no country, Estonia and Ukraine, wants to share accurate information about the quantities of weapons and ammunition at their disposal. This would allow quite a lot of conclusions to be drawn from the defence capabilities of one country or another. Secondly, what is the total cost of these missiles? That's a little tricky again, because if I answer that question and you know how much they cost, you can figure out how much we give. But the missiles to be handed over to Ukraine were free of charge from the United States of America in its own time. And what we're about to give is one of those are transferable, the other are donated missiles, this amount is in the order of millions of euros. Thirdly, how much time is left until the date of their nominal use? The deadline for the use of these missiles is within a few years. The deadline for the use of missiles in this batch has already been updated and extended, and no more can be done. Fourthly, how much would it cost to update them and extend the term of use versus obtain the same amount of new missiles? These procurements for the replacement of missiles will be launched in the near future and, in addition, the procurement of all the ammunition reserves of the Defence Forces, as well as of the Javelins, will be exponentially increased in relation to the additional EUR 340 million allocated by the Government to the defence budget. In this situation, donation is a viable solution. Fifthly, how many hatchets, accompanying equipment and ammunition are going to be handed over to Ukraine? Once again, these quantities are not public, but I can say that we are talking about a dozen howitzers. And after that, the Defence Forces will use sufficient stock of howitzers and shells to arm the 2nd Infantry Brigade today's artillery battalion and a rather decent supply. Sixthly, has an inquiry been made to the Ukrainian side about their need, and what is Ukraine's response? Yes, the Estonian and Ukrainian Ministry of Defence has been in close contact with the aid of the armed forces. Ukraine has asked Estonia and other partner countries to obtain ammunition with all kinds of calibre and, if possible, weapons. Seventhly, has Germany and Finland been asked for consent to Ukraine [for the transfer of Haubs and ammunition] and what are Germany and Finland's responses? Yes, both Germany and Finland have been asked for this consent in December, and in fact this request for consent has not been public. It's leaked. We did not wish to make it public in any way, and I agree with you that we have now somehow come to the heart of such an internal political vortex in Germany. But we don't have a formal denial or a yes at the moment. And now the questions of 8 to 11, which I answer at the same time. What is the plan to do to strengthen the driving-beam performance of defense units in a situation where 81 mm and 120 mm mortars are clearly not sufficient? Would it not be more reasonable to hand over 122 millimetres of howitzers, equipment and ammunition to the Defence League instead of surrendering to Ukraine in order to create an artillery battery in every militia community? What are the alternatives to this plan and what would they cost? The recently approved "State Defence Development Plan 2022.22031' states that land defence units prepared by the Defence League will focus on dispersed battle activities. This is both Lieutenant General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, and Brigadier General Riho of the Defence League. This means that the Defence League is currently not expected to have more powerful main-beam equipment than the 120-millimeter mortars, as artillery batteries and battalions are not compatible with the dispersed battle doctrine. However, the development of defense fire control capabilities will be in line with the principles of dispersed combat. This means that the Defence League's troops can order and control their own, Defence Forces and allies' long-distance fire and blows. The required fire management programme is established by the Defence Forces, and the corresponding hardware for its operation is already partially available. An analysis of the procurement of additional resources is also under preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U113	Heiki Hepner starts with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question stems from the comment made by your party partner and experienced military general Ants Laaneots, where he strongly criticised this decision. And one might say that, to some extent, the questioning of the EKRE members of the Group is a part of General Laaneots' opinion. How do you comment on Ants Laaneots' opinion that this weakens Estonia's defence capacity? Was he hasty with his opinion, lacking [the right] insight, or is there something else in it? I mean competition within a certain party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U115	Thank you. As I said before, these quantities of weapons and ammunition have been selected in such a way that it does not weaken Estonia's own defence capabilities. And as far as Javelin missiles are concerned, we're in the process of upgrading their supplies anyway. [Let's give away] a fraction of our remaining quantities. I think perhaps not everyone was known at this time of [crititation] either. I haven't heard General Laaneots criticize that decision right now. And I believe that if we need to further defend ourselves and the allies give us help to do so, then it is only welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U116	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Still, the emergence of this plan to support Ukraine gives a little unprofessional impression of our Ministry of Defence. They announced this on 30 December last year and it looks like we were shouting before, we got a political point, and only then did we see if this support was possible. But I ask you about the analysis of the circumstances of our internal policy: has such an analysis been carried out? We have a large Russian-speaking community, a large Ukrainian community, there are different moods. Has this form of support for Ukraine been analysed against the background of our communities? Is there any [problems] that you need to think about or even worry about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U118	Thank you. First of all, how this [information] came out. Certainly no one wanted to be at the heart of Germany's internal political debate, and we have asked for these consents, as the agreements foresee. As far as Ukrainians and Russians are concerned, the State Chancellery is actually conducting such studies on a continuous basis, including on defence capabilities. I do not have any specific numbers here, but I can assure you that we are looking into this mindset and we have also been thinking whether this could lead to different conflicts between these communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U119	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U120	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Of course, under your government, defense has been systematically damaged. Last year, the Estonian defence forces lost more than 600 people, though by redundancies, but by dismissals. Despite the proposal of the National Defence Commission to develop mid-earth air control, this decision does not exist, although there has been more money allocation. Now there's some kind of official jubilee figured out the idea that we're gonna give away our best and most effective weapons, getting weaker by themselves, and that doesn't make much difference for the Ukrainians. It was approved by your defence minister, your party partner Kalle Laane, and it was also politically approved by you, the person most responsible for national defence in Estonia. I ask such a simple question: did this crazy and damaging idea come from any of our friends or allies that you all agreed with it? And if it came from any friend or ally, what did they promise us for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U121	Thank you. Estonia is a sovereign state and makes all its decisions itself. As I said, giving this armament will not completely undermine Estonia's defence capabilities. I'm not the expert you seem to have in all areas. The Commander of the Defence Forces also says that it will not impair our defenses in any way if we surrender these [weapons]. In fact, it must be understood that Ukraine's ability to defend itself is also directly a matter of our security. If you look at the map, you will see that Ukraine is in the middle of Europe. It is clear that if Ukraine fails to defend itself militarily, this conflict will be passed on to other parts of Europe. And beyond that, all the problems that concern the economy that concerns the refugees of war are all issues that directly concern us. Therefore, helping Ukraine is also a matter of our own defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U122	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Indeed, sanctions and arms assistance are only part of the response to Russia's aggression. In your previous reply, you touched on the subject of war refugees. We hear every day that a full-scale campaign is about to begin. This is going to get a little out of the question that we are dealing with in the context of arms assistance, but maybe you can still shed some light on our willingness to help war refugees in a situation when the full scale of warfare really starts? And what is our common position with our neighbours and allies, how can we help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U124	Thank you. Indeed, on Thursday in the government office, we discussed very thoroughly the possible effects on all areas with all ministers, [based on] the administration of all ministries, and war refugees are part of it. Firstly, we have mapped out these possible effects, and secondly, where we have some gaps where we need to prepare further. I have been in contact with my colleagues from other countries, and it seems to me that we are one step ahead of these plans. Of course, I can't talk about precise plans here again, but yes, we're looking at this picture in the collection: what are all the elements that you really have to think about, in case things go really, really bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U125	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question, of course, also concerns Ukraine and what is happening there, but a little backwards to the previous question, because it is not all connected in every way. You stressed that we should not enter the trap of negotiations. We talked about negotiating at the same time. There were examples that Macron, who is, by the way, the President of the European Union (the President of the State), planned negotiations with Russia, attended by the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán. You spoke to Morawieck two days ago, said that under no circumstances should we fall into the trap of [fall] Macron and Orbán. Can we conclude from this that, in this very difficult political situation where war is knocking on the door, the European Union is very divided and just as there are two separate policies in parts of the European Union? Some [countries] have a negotiating policy and part has a non-negotiation policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U127	Thank you. Firstly, Russia very much wants the European Union and NATO to be divided. I do not see that we have, and this has been a negative surprise for Russia. It is not a negotiation, it is a dialogue. And the difference is that there are negotiations on something, but dialogue is just a two-way discussion that can still be held. The different Member States must also engage in dialogue. Again, I would like to emphasise that, in the case of such universal principles, we are not talking about the European security architecture, we are not negotiating [it], it is a general principle. And really, in Russia, above all, no one has the right to say who may belong to NATO and who cannot, in what form [countries] can defend themselves. It's kind of a uniform principle where everyone's kept the same line. There are a lot of different opinions on tactics, but that does not mean that we are divided on principles, principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U128	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U129	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In the thirties, Estonia filled one big power gap: it bought two modern expensive submarines. Efforts were made to close the power gaps. While in the EKRE government, we closed a very important gap in coastal defence. We've got sea mines now, and we're gonna have beach defense batteries. The very positive development was that there is a plan to replenish the ammunition reserves, but it is not about creating a new capacity, of which we are much in need. And here's the question. I'm looking into your attitude towards mid-earth air control. Perhaps at a critical time, your current close visits would make sense to discuss it with your allies, because both Latvia and Estonia are missing mid-earth air control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U130	Thank you. Yeah, we've talked about midland air control with our Baltic colleagues, [talking] about how such great abilities could be developed together. It's like one side. The other side is that in this security situation, where we are now, it is important that we have everything in place for our protection and do not have any hesitation or doubt that if we invite the reservists out to make everything work, too. Developing a mid-earth air control capability simply requires so many years that we do not have to take at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U131	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U132	Good manager! Prime Minister! If Estonia were now able to obtain the same amount of arms assistance from its allies as we give to Ukraine, which capacity gaps would your priority be to fill first?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U133	Thank you. This is where I rely on experts. I don't know what to say right now. I would certainly ask the Commander of the Defence Forces, who has complete knowledge, and would rely on experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U134	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U135	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that the government has allocated 380 million additional defence spending. We have been trying to think and understand for a long time here, and maybe you could explain what additional budget allocation this year was made of. It hasn't been in the RES, has it? It hasn't been through the Riigikogu. What kind of money is that, specifically? Where's it coming from? So far, it's only been a promise. Why don't you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U136	Thank you. That 380 million will be in the next few years. I don't really have those numbers on me right now, how much it says in the year. Wait, I'm looking... [[Browse papers.]] Yeah, there's 15 million this year, which is found in the government reserve or has already been approved by redeploying the budget. The remaining amount, 365 million, has already been planned in advance in the process of making the country's budget strategy. This coverage must be found within the framework of the country's budgetary strategy, but the government also has this fundamental decision as to how this money is distributed between different ministries and different capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U137	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U138	Thank you. I will ask you a little bit about the other subject, anti-personnel mines, which are undoubtedly the cheapest, most effective and easiest means of defence. Estonia withdrew them in 2004 by joining the Ottawa Convention. By the way, your party's generals, Kert and Laaneots, were against it, and the Laaneots are against it today. Have you thought, in the government, especially the Minister of Defence, that we could re-introduce them as soon as possible, all the more so since our greatest enemy Russia is using them and our greatest ally in the same way? And there is a whole line of these countries: China, Pakistan, India and so on and so forth. Today's anti-personnel mines are controlled, they can be turned on remotely, they can also be deactivated, so that there is no such thing as fear of being left in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U139	Thank you. Indeed, very many civilians have been injured by anti-personnel mines, and for this reason it has been agreed that they will not be used in this way. And I don't have [experts] like you have on the operation of anti-personnel mines, but yes, we don't have that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U140	Good Prime Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. Leo Kunnas first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's analyze some of the answers. Yes, Javelin's missiles could be surrendered, they are very much needed for Ukraine, but this would require that the same amount be ordered immediately and it comes from the reserve of the Government of the Republic, it is not from the funds of the development plan or its additional 380 million, but it is another concrete decision that will be made. In this case, the [quantities] will be compensated, the order will immediately go out in the same amount as if it were to go away. That's a sensible solution. Yes, indeed, Ukraine needs it, but it cannot come at our own expense. That would be the solution here. Now that we go to the courgettes and to the position of the Commander of the Defence Forces, which I have heard here, that the brigades are conducting a conventional war and that the land defence is only involved in sissy activities, this is not a militaryly very professional assessment that can actually go like this. We have a major problem with the national defence we can afford. Perhaps the best expert you should listen to is General Laaneots. What has happened to us during this time? Perhaps the best national defence development plan we have ever had was, in fact, 2009 to 2018. This was at a time when Ansip was Prime Minister, Aaviksoo was Minister of Defence, and General Laaneots was Commander of the Defence Forces. Clear plan: 42000 people in the Defence Forces, the Defence Districts that united the Defence League and the Defence Forces units that were planned to be able to carry out both conventional and non-conventional battles. The plan included mid-earth air control, the plan included armoured maneuvering capacity, or tanks. It was a very sensible plan. So what happened? There was a loss and a reduction in defence costs, fortunately not as much as in Latvia and Lithuania, but still. Of course, when it was done, I should have gone back there after the downfall. But none of this happened. And this did not happen even after the Ukrainian war in 2014 had already begun. We went on with this and we already made a third development plan on the basis of this concept. My personal professional assessment of this concept is devastating. It's just that there aren't enough troops and there aren't enough capabilities. And now that we have had so long to resolve these issues, it is high time that these issues were resolved. We are not getting away with this tax that we could have slowly put there over the years. Now all this has to be done a lot faster. It's the same card capacity. You don't need that for the district? Of course, circles need both map capacity and near-air control, after all. We can't look at the men who are there, like second-rate cannon meat, so they'll have to fight so they can just survive somehow. This is not the right approach. If there are not enough personnel in the Defence League, which I absolutely believe, then these units must be taken from the normal reserve. They're trained, too. We just have to finish supplying them and organize them. We're not gonna get away with this, just like we're not gonna get out of midland air control. There was no money before, now there's no time. After the Olympic Games, for example, there is now a possibility. We must continue this planned development. My best suggestion is that you really listen to the old general. I've been listening to him for a lifetime. In all the basic things he's said, he's right. In 1992, he said that if we need six troops, or two brigades and four circuits, to protect our country, we need to develop them in such a way that we can fight. We can't get past it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U142	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am not really going to analyse our defence capabilities here for a very long time and our contribution to Ukraine as well. Ukraine absolutely needs support, there is no doubt about it, just as we expect support from our allies when the situation is bad and we have been attacked. But I was moved to ask the question General Laaneots' opinion that it is insane to give these weapons to Ukraine, as this puts Estonia's defence capabilities at risk. I'm not as big a pessimist as General Laaneots is. The truth is, I haven't been in the military. All of this [the subject] could, of course, be discussed and debated, and this debate would be held by the National Defence Commission. And here is now the place that I really want to draw attention to, which is regrettable in itself in a parliamentary society: namely that Parliament has remained in the role of a runaway on this issue. In fact, this issue should have been dealt with by the National Defence Committee. In the Committee on National Defence, all members have a state secret permit, we can speak openly, discuss in detail, argue if necessary, and come up with a common position. In this way, it could be avoided that different views on national defence are reached in society and that we are not united in defending our country. I dare confirm that we are united in defending our country, and we will probably also overcome these disputes from a cross-party perspective. But this debate must be held and it is a great pity that the Minister of Defence decided, in silence in his office, to make these decisions at his best discretion and to avoid discussion in the Riigikogu National Defence Committee. My wish and my appeal to the Prime Minister is, in fact, that the Minister of Defence should be the person who comes to the Riigikogu on such matters, the National Defence Committee, where all the details are discussed and a common understanding of how we deal with a particular issue is agreed. And then we seem to our allies [in a better light], we are more confident in our decisions, and in fact the sum of the sum of the sum is better protected by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U144	We have concluded the negotiations and have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U145	Our fourth item is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeiti, Rene Koka, Helle-Moonika Helme, Riho Breiveli, Ruuben Kaalepi, Anti Polandmets, Peeter Ernitsa, Paul Puustusmaa, Jaak Valge, Kalle Grünthali, Leo Kunnas, Urmas Reitelmann, Mart Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Alar Laneman and Siim Pohlak on the final failure of Mali's mission. As the representative of the inquisitors, please, the remote control, Reuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U146	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good listeners! Estonia should only send its soldiers on foreign missions if they are in line with our values and contribute to our security interests. For foreign missions that violate our values and undermine our security interests, Estonia should have no business. Can we say that since the 1990s Estonia has participated only in missions that are in line with our values and in the interests of our security? I'm sorry, I can't. One of the most signicant is our participation in Mali, which goes down in history as a very sad page. Where do I start? I would like to point out, Madam Prime Minister, that even when the first Estonian defence soldier's foot entered Mali's surface, we were aware of the war crimes committed by the Malian government forces. We knew very well that this country, whose unnatural borders have been drawn into the desert with a ruler during colonialism, can remain in this form only with the support of the French forces. The price of maintaining these borders has been the uprisings of Tuaregs drowned in blood for decades, the suppression of indigenous peoples fighting for their right to self-determination. We are training an army to secure these violent borders at all costs, so our hands are also bloody. But we didn't care about that. We also knew that this region of Africa was extremely unstable, that several coups could be expected every decade, and that the government to which we originally helped did not have to wait a long time. And that's what happened in 2020. The government was overthrown, and the army, led by Colonel Goita, seized power. What did we do? Did we finally pick up our [conference]? Neither did it then, and we didn't change anything nine months later when another coup took place. The military regime came to power with it twice as much as it did. We waited for what the French would do, as if we did not have the capacity to analyse ourselves, as if our values and understanding of international law depend only on the instructions of the great powers. It's like we're not even an independent state. So, we know about war crimes, Analyzing indigenous peoples, brutal suppression of resistance, military coups. Perhaps, Prime Minister, you approve of all this and you are entitled to your views, but it will get sour when it starts to undermine Estonia's security. And this issue arises very acutely when the Malian regime cooperates with Russian mercenaries and is falling into Russia's sphere of influence. Let us not forget that the same Russian-friendly regime has so far remained in power with the support of the Western countries. We, among others, have trained soldiers under the regime. And now we're on the same side of the front line as Russian mercenaries. That is an irrefutable fact. Already at the end of last year, hundreds of Russian mercenaries arrived in Mali, at the direct invitation of the Malian regime. The bases of Russian mercenaries are located on strategic points across the country, including in the northern Saharan desert areas, where Estonian soldiers also operate. France also hoped at the end of last year that diplomatic pressure would keep Russia's influence away from Mali. Of course, this could not have had any impact on the Malian regime, which by its very nature has much more in common with the Russian regime than with the Western values. Estonia cannot afford such naive hopes, as our security situation is a hundred times more fragile than France. Last year our defence minister Kalle Laane, who promised to bring Estonia's contingent out of Mali, also realized this. But the government of Kaja Kallas has broken that promise. Mali's mission has finally failed, but our soldiers are still standing in Africa fighting a foreign war for a local terrorist regime, shoulder to shoulder with imperialist Russia. Prime Minister, when will our soldiers come home from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U147	And now I'd like Prime Minister Kaja Kallas here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U148	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the questions that have been asked. Firstly, "What information has been shared with you as Prime Minister about the Malian regime's cooperation with Russia and the Wagner Group and Wagner's ongoing activities on Malian territory? " Estonia, like all other allies, is monitoring these developments very closely. We are constantly communicating with our partner countries and we have received regular reviews of developments in Mali, to which this worrying cooperation with Russia and the Wagner Group has recently been added. Question 2: "What information has been shared with you as Prime Minister about the war crimes committed by the Malian military in essence in an ally relationship with us? " The UN is closely monitoring the situation in Mali, has produced reports of possible war crimes by the Malian Defence Forces, and unfortunately the latest reports show that human rights violations against Malin civilians have not ended. Addressing human rights issues is an important part of two missions involving Estonia, both MINUSMA and EUTM Mali. One of the main objectives of MINUSMA is to improve the human rights situation in Mali and the reports on this issue are drawn up by the UN every year. One of the tasks of EUTM Mali is to provide persons serving in the Malian Armed Forces with training on human rights and international law, as well as on the protection of civilians. So both missions will continue to reduce human rights violations in Mali. Question 3: "How many Malian soldiers trained by Estonian instructors are now working directly with Russia and/or Wagner? " The answer. As far as we know, Malian soldiers trained by Estonia do not cooperate directly with Russia or Wagner. Question 4: "The current foreign policy development plan obliges Estonia to stand up for the rights of indigenous peoples. What diplomatic steps has Estonia taken or is taking to support the self-determination efforts of the Tuaregs or other indigenous peoples living in the territory of Mali? " The preservation of the rights of indigenous peoples, their languages and culture is one of the fundamental values and areas of action of Estonian foreign policy. Estonia is represented at expert level in the United Nations Forum of Peoples. Thanks to their proposals and work, 2019 was declared the Year of Indigenous Languages, and as a further development it has been declared the Decade of Indigenous Languages in 2022-2032. The aim of contributing to the Estonian Defence Forces is to support the establishment of a stable security environment in Mali so that the necessary political processes can take place. The aim is not to find political solutions within Mali. Question 5: "In January, ECOWAS countries imposed sanctions on the undemocratic Malian regime and minimized diplomatic relations. How justified does Estonia consider this step and whether our attitude towards the Malian regime is similar to or different from ECOWAS? " The Malian military junta announced its intention to extend the transitional period that had come to an end in February this year with democratic elections for another five years, to which ECOWAS reacted with its own sanctions on 9 January. Estonia, together with other countries of the European Union, supports ECOWAS' requirements for a transitional period of 18 months and supports these sanctions. Estonia also supported sanctions against the European Union sanction regime and against Wagner members adopted at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union on 13 December. Question 6: What goals have been achieved for Estonia in the Mali mission and what have not been met so far? " First of all, Estonia's missions have reduced the terrorist threat and the resulting migration in the region. In Estonia's main area of activity in Northern Mali, the security situation has generally improved, which in turn has indirectly contributed to the management of migration towards Europe and the threat of terrorism. And Estonia's contribution to the French-led coalition focuses on the military dimension, namely training the Malian Armed Forces in the field of operations and thereby increasing their capabilities so that Mali can control its territory and combat terrorist groups. The cooperation with FAMa has been very good and the skills of the units being trained by Estonians have visibly improved. Secondly, Estonia has strengthened its alliances with France; this objective has been met. Operational cooperation with France has certainly deepened the strategic relationship between Estonia and France, which is based not only on shared value but also on a common understanding of the security environment and the dangers affecting it. It has a direct [impact] in fact on ensuring our security. Thirdly, thanks to our cooperation with France, today we see French soldiers and tanks in Tapa's NATO battle group contributing to Estonia's security. And fourthly, Estonia's international position has also increased. Through its participation in the operation led by France, Estonia is a member of several international formats, such as the Takuba Coalition, the Sahel Coalition and the European Defensive Initiative, in which Estonia is able to present its views on security issues concerning Europe, both on those concerning Africa and those dealing with more immediate security threats for Estonia, such as the activities of the Russian Federation in our region. Question 7: "Does the Minister of Defence promise to withdraw troops from Mali when the regime cooperates with Wagner express the position of the Government of the Republic? " Estonia has made decisions to participate in operations in Mali with its allies, and the statements made in the autumn are mainly related to the agreements made with the allies to exert as strong international pressure as possible on the ruling military junta in Mali, so that they do not start working with the Wagner Group. Today, the security situation in Europe has changed considerably and Estonia's international steps must take this into account. From our security point of view, Russia's behaviour in Europe and Ukraine is now more important. And participation in Mali Takuba's mission is based on the rights granted to the Minister of Defence. The Minister of Defence is a member of the Government and acts in accordance with the law and authority conferred on him. Question 8: When will Estonia cut off its participation in the Malian missions? " Estonia's international steps must take into account the security situation in Europe and the unstable political and security situation in Mali. It is important for us to oppose Russia's attempts to divide the unity of the Western Allies as well as the growth of Russia's influence in Mali. Therefore, it is not the primary desire to leave Mali, but to continue the fight against terrorism by the allies and thereby contribute to the security of the Sahel. Together with our allies, we constantly monitor developments and consult on further steps. Estonia contributes to security at the invitation of the Malian Government and the continuation of cooperation is based on the validity of the invitation on the one hand and the validity of legal agreements concluded between Mali and Estonia on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U149	Heiki Hepner starts with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will actually continue the seventh question as a follow-up or extension. Defence Minister Laanet stated that Estonia will bring its [soldiers from Mali] out when Wagner enters. Such hip-shooting statements certainly do not clarify the situation and do not make it easier for society to understand. My question here: Do you think it would have been reasonable for the Minister of Defence to come to explain his opinion to the Riigikogu National Defence Committee, which is the first place here in the Riigikogu where defence policy bases are being formed, or is it possible to shoot the right-left from the hip in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U151	Thank you. The Riigikogu is the employer of the government and, of course, government ministers must report and preferably consult the committees so that the widest possible political consensus is on defence matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U152	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U153	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! A moment ago, from the question put by my colleague, Mr Hepner, I had the impression that this [Kalle Laanet's statement] was a hip-shooting. Well, Heiki said it was a hip shot. At the same time, your answer to the same question that Kalle Laane said was that it was not at all a hip shooting. You said it was the government's position. Now it's confusing for me whether it's a hip-shooting or a government position, but the fact is that [Laanet] says that if Wagner and Wagner's private army are made to operate in Mali, the Estonian contingent will be removed. Period. It's a very specific matter. As Prime Minister, I'm sure you know what your cabinet members are saying and how they speak. When you heard Laane say those words, did you ask him if it was his solo, or was it really the government's position? And if that was the government's position, why hasn't it been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U154	Thank you. First of all, the previous question concerned whether the Riigikogu is being reported or whether the Riigikogu is being consulted. And in answering that question, I did not accept in any way the arguments put forward in this question. But as far as [Malis] is concerned, we have taken our steps with our allies and will continue to take these steps with our allies. Indeed, if this military junta acts with Wagner, we will probably take these steps and negotiate with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U155	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I believe we can be sure that Estonia is not aware of all the reasons why France is still in Mali with its soldiers. Therefore, we cannot say whether all these reasons are appropriate to us. Following the expulsion of the French diplomat, the ambassador, the French soldiers and, unfortunately, their fellow Estonian soldiers are becoming an unwanted contingent in the country. It's a very small step from there to becoming a target. Doesn't Estonia see any concern here? [Aren't we supposed to act before the world's newsroom is occupied with an important event, such as Ukraine, and there's a good moment that our soldiers can really get into a very dangerous situation? Don't we have anything to worry about here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U157	Thank you. First of all, France has said two objectives: one was the fight against terrorism, because many people from this background came to France, and the other was the support of a democratic government that is no longer there. France's steps must, of course, be asked. But like I said, we're in constant contact with them on this subject. Of course, we do not want to put our soldiers at risk in any way, that is what we mean. So if there's a threat like that, we're gonna get our soldiers out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U158	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U159	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! The situation is indeed extremely difficult, both morally and in many other ways, in terms of international law. I have a request that you keep an eye on the situation, which is that the action is very far away from us and that the issue of Ukraine is also up. Wagner is a Russian army designed not to be responsible for its actions and war crimes in terms of international law. As a lawyer, you can understand how you just hide the tracks of your actions, but he is the Russian army, the mercenaries. Mercenary is still a separate issue. So I have a question and a comment here at once. Firstly, since there is a rare international interest in us and you, I would like you to raise the Wagner issue among the allies, and we could point out that we really understand how dangerous it is. That's a request. And the question is, are you ready to raise [this subject]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U160	Thank you. In fact, yesterday, when I had a phone call with the President of France, I raised this issue and we talked about it for a long time, but I cannot reveal it to you. Yes, I am aware of this problem, and so are our allies. We'll keep a very clear eye on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U161	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U162	Thank you, Mr President. On 10 January a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs was held, where Kalle Laane was also present to receive a mandate on issues relating to the mission of Mali. According to the written material submitted to us and the explanations given by Kalle Laanet, there are no Russian troops in Mali, Wagner or not. But the problem is, as I said, it does not correspond to reality, since France 24 had already announced through the news channels that there were Russian troops already inside on the basis of photographs and videos. How is that possible? I will immediately ask: does Kalle Laane know nothing about this question or does he not give objective information to members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U163	Thank you. The Minister of Defence will certainly receive the right information, he will be familiar with all the information and will certainly share it with the Riigikogu as much as he can share it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U164	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U165	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! You've shown here before that you can escape to some parallel reality where life is quite different from the world we live in. I was completely amazed by the statements that our participation in Mali's mission has reduced terrorism and political instability in that country. Well, this is some kind of joke, isn't it? That's where the government we went to defend, so to speak, was overthrown and replaced by the government we went against to defend this former government. But the even better statement was that because we're in Mali, French soldiers are in Tapa. Now you have said a public secret that is generally denied by Estonian liberal politicians. Our so-called security exports, which we are dealing with in Africa, though in the Middle East, are the condition with which NATO Article 5 starts. Tell the truth that if we don't fight in Mali, we don't think the French will come to our aid against the Russians.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U166	Thank you. Please don't twist my words! The fact that we are with our allies in Mali has certainly increased our credibility as an ally and has also increased our awareness of us. One of the reasons that France said was the threat of terrorism, and you, who have very much fought against all kinds of migration and terrorism, or at least have talked about it, could you understand that if we can prevent these problems on the African continent, that means that we have fewer of these problems too. So in this respect, that is the goal. But if you ask me directly the question whether our participation in Mali is somehow a precondition for the French to protect us as NATO's ally here, then the answer is no, because NATO has Article 5, according to which an attack on one country means an attack on all countries, and this is not linked to any condition.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U167	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U168	Good manager! Prime Minister! Do you realise that if we support the terrorist regime in Mali, with the approval of your government, which brutally suppresses the aspirations of small people's independence and is guilty of brutal war crimes, and the regime, or the junta, as you said yourself, is twice illegal, then it is in no way credible if you speak about the rule of law or human rights or minority rights in Estonia's context, while with your support we help to keep the regime up in Africa, which is as common to our Western value area as you say it is brutally violating? Do you understand that this is not credible, it is enormously two-faced and these are double standards?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U169	Thank you. We do not support any regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U170	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U171	Thank you. I'm coming back to that mid-earth air strike, which is a crucial thing and a completely fatal power gap. The National Defence Committee, composed of representatives of all our Riigikogu [groups], proposed that we should obtain it as soon as possible. You pointed out here in one of your previous answers that the obstacles are, firstly, time, it takes time to obtain it, and, secondly, that there is no necessary training. In fact, we know very well that if we start working on this right now, basically by the same time that the ammo we're getting on with this extra cash injection is coming in here, we'll be able to get our mid-range anti-aircraft...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U172	Mr. Pier, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U173	... and training could be done with our allies for so long. Your coalition partner also suggested that we get it...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U174	Mr. Fieldace, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U175	Have you discussed this in the government? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U176	I would like to point out that we are currently in the middle of an inquiry into the Mali mission. That's another question we're asking right now. But if the Prime Minister wants to answer, he can, of course, do it. It's just that we have another inquiry right now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U177	Yes, with regard to this mid-earth air control, I have replied that yes, we have discussed this, and those opportunities that are now, the preparatory work that needs to be done, they are being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U178	In the case of inquiries, it is possible for each member of the Riigikogu to ask one question. Next thing you know, Peter Ernits is gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U179	Good manager! Prime Minister! With the proposal to extend the mission, your government came forward on 27 September last year. On 26 September, however, Mali's Prime Minister, Choguel Maï, appeared at the United Nations General Assembly and spoke, briefly, about how France has betrayed Mali and must be called upon to assist Russia's power structures. Didn't your government know that? The head of Mali will announce, and the next day you will come here with a draft extension of the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U180	Thank you. Of course, we are following these developments, and these decisions were prepared earlier. As I say, we make decisions with our allies and negotiate with them. Here before, under the previous points, it was said that Russia wanted to divide us, the allies, NATO allies and the Member States of the European Union. Basically, when we are together somewhere, this kind of action by Russia is also aimed at dividing, which must also be borne in mind. And that's why we make these decisions with the other allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U181	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm not a specialist in this field myself, but I've got a mixed point. You said that we would not support any regime. But please explain to me what our soldiers are doing in Mali. What's their mission there, or what's their purpose there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U183	Yeah, I already listed those goals for you. Firstly, reducing the terrorist threat in the region. Secondly, this too, yes, basically in the region is still the main reduction of the terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U184	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. I understand that Ruuben Kaalep is speaking on behalf of the heirs, yes? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U185	Thank you, Prime Minister, for not answering. What did we hear here? We have heard quite two-faced views and rather undivided opinions. Let's start from the beginning. The first question concerned information on the Malian regime's cooperation with Russia, Wagner's activities in Mali. We got a short answer, yes, we're watching what's going on there. Of course, it is good to hear that our government is not completely unaware of this. But if we now recall the session of the Riigikogu in December, where we last dealt with this issue in greater detail, then the Minister of Defence, who came here asking for authorisation to extend the mission, did not know that the Wagner units were already inside Mali. This is the fact he heard for the first time here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu from colleague Kalle Grünthal. This shows that, indeed, our intelligence has been at least deficient in the past. Let us hope that the situation has improved. The second, perhaps even more important, issue again concerns our awareness, intelligence on Mali's war crimes. Yes, we learned that the UN is monitoring human rights violations there. Indeed, they have not ended, in other words, they go on just as brutally and brutally. And then, very hypocritically, we heard that the purpose of our soldiers' [here] is that human rights violations be reduced, and we go there beautifully to teach the soldiers of the Malian regime how to kill fewer civilians and so on. Do you realize that what makes the situation unstable in Mali and one of the main forces responsible for committing these war crimes is the junta in power, the same Malian government, and so was the previous junta and the regime that preceded it? The fact that the Western countries support this regime and these regimes is the reason why human rights violations are taking place there. And, of course, you can say, yes, it would happen even if we weren't there. But since we're there, we're involved, we're responsible, too, and we can't escape it. If we want the human rights situation to improve there, we should go and overthrow the junta and redraw the borders. Of course, I do not think it would make sense for the Western countries to build any countries themselves in the third world. But that is what should be done if we really want to improve the human rights situation. Question three. It is known that there is no direct cooperation with the Malian troops trained by Estonians with Wagner. Well, then I just have to say that if you say there is no cooperation, your intelligence is incomplete, because the Malian army, which cooperates with Wagner, is exactly the same Malian army that cooperates with us that we train. There are no two separate Malian armies. It's simple and logical. The fourth question may be particularly interesting. Now that we are in Mali and we are co-responsible for what is happening there, for this ethnic conflict and for the situation concerning the rights of indigenous peoples, of course, we, especially as Estonians, who already have such a deeper sense and awareness of the situation of indigenous peoples as a result of historical experience, should do something about it and, at least, focus on it, pay more attention. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U186	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U187	When we say that at the UN Forum we stand for being the Year of Indigenous Languages, and that is our contribution to ensuring that the rights of indigenous peoples are not violated in the country where our soldiers participate in the mission, it is a complete replacement. If our [contingent] is in there, we have a responsibility. And the only elementary thing we should do when we talk about putting diplomatic pressure on the Malian regime, the government there, is to give even autonomy to those nations that have fought for freedom for decades there. Where's the diplomatic pressure? Point 5 concerned ECOWAS sanctions for Mali. Here, of course, the Prime Minister must be commended for saying that in Mali we really do have a junta that is not some legitimate regime that we support there, and that Estonia supports these sanctions. But how does it make sense that, with one hand, we are, as if, restricting the diplomacy and economic activity of this regime, with the other hand, supporting the same army that organised this coup and training them? Point six, our goals in Mali. When we are talking about achieving stability in this region, forgive us, the two military coups we have seen are an obvious sign that instability is what has grown in Mali. And now it's particularly brutal when we're talking about helping the Malian military control their territory. That is exactly what we are giving our approval to the suppression of these indigenous peoples and the continuation of ethnic conflict, because we know that the borders drawn there by the colonial states have led to this policy of analyticism. And as far as strengthening our alliance with France is concerned, and as a result, the French tanks in Tapa, Mali, have nothing to do with NATO missions, there is nothing in common with Article 5. And if it is true that, in order for the French to come to our aid, we must participate in some very distant foreign war, it is a clear exploitation of Estonia, and it is directly calling into question NATO's alliance. In short, two more questions. As regards the Minister of Defence's promise to bring out [our soldiers], there are only two options: whether the Minister of Defence has changed his views in the meantime, or whether the government will renounce these positions as expressed by the Minister in September. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think... (The President: "Time!") ... that it was one correct theorem which the Minister of Defence said: we must bring out our [conference] from there. There are dozens of these reasons, and that is what we should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U188	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U189	Good manager! Prime Minister! Mr Reuben, in his youthful temper, talks about the rights of indigenous peoples, and I also like them. But Africa is Africa and Asia is Asia. If you come to Mali, French Sudan, or what it is called, has a violent and quite long socialist history that was built during the time of first President Modibo Keïta. You could know that. And when you look at who currently runs Mali, Andres Sut's colleague, Mali's digital economy minister Choguel Maïga, a doctor who speaks Russian freely, has received an education and a doctorate in Moscow. He was the man who, on 26 September at the UN General Assembly, he is Mali's Prime Minister, and the junta is also there, but the Prime Minister has also said rather crisply about France and the United Nations that they have betrayed the Malian state and people, and, moreover, he has done so in the same way as in Afghanistan, where American troops disappeared, without informing the local army. But there will be no further talk about what Prime Minister Maï said to Prime Minister Maï on 26 September last year. Maïga has such a colorful language at all. He has said that it is important for them to have sovereignty, the sovereignty of the Malian state, but Europe and America are like elephants fighting each other in Mali, and they, the people of Mali, are like grass under the feet of their fighting elephants and they have to grow up. So much for Dr. Maïgas, the so-called junta leader. But the real leader of the junta is Colonel Assimi Goïta, and he doesn't speak Russian. He's a Special Forcesman, trained in the United States, wearing a green beret, such a nice, dark boy. He has long been the leader of the Tuareg military district up there on the Algerian border and near it. And [on the basis of what Mr Reuben said here, Colonel Assimi Goïta, the leader of the junta, is also involved in the things that a special forcesman and his troops have done in the land of the Tuaregs with a strong hand. I don't know what exactly. Now, on 26 September, Prime Minister Maïga, at the United Nations General Assembly, said that France had betrayed them by taking out its units without informing them. And on 27 September, I saw that, oh, the Prime Minister or the government will come here with a prayer for the extension of this mission. That's interesting. It's not exactly known. I also looked at Wikipedia. According to Wikipedia, in September 2021 an agreement was signed between the Malian State and the Russian military group Wagner. I do not think that Wikipedia is the most reliable, but this alone, even in Estonian [website], says this long ago. I remember how Secretary of Defense Laane told us about the Wagners and everything else, didn't he? I remember, I asked. But no, there was nothing, because the first reading was here, when it was here, November 8th. And when we extended these missions on 9 December...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U190	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U191	Yeah, just a few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U192	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U193	... then it was by 44 colleagues, 17 was against, and 38 clever foxes realized they shouldn't climb. They didn't just vote, they were mostly middle party, but not all of them. But the Reform Party, the Prime Minister's fighting team, calmly voted in favour. You'll be proud of that consistency. And what else can I say? Now that our boys are in Mali, we'll make sure the French are in Tapa. Yeah, yeah, why not, this sausage deal. But you might want to know what's really going on. So to speak, the Russian throng and the Russian throng have been in Mali for a long time. I would remind you that this was already the case in President Keïta when socialist Mali was built there in the French Sudan, as it was then called. And the fact that the junta said it couldn't be an election, five years left in power, [shows] that the mess in Mali is still total. The fifth of the 19 provinces is stability. In this regard, Colonel Goïta and his men may understand that we're going to have to clean up the house first. Similarly, this talk of sovereignty, which cannot be discussed for long, is not the story of Mali's sovereignty, nor is it of elephants, one of whom is Europe, the other is America, and we are loyal to one leg of them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U194	Mr. Kaalep, do you have a request for a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U195	As I was mentioned in the negotiations, I would just like to add that it is very incomprehensible, on the basis of which the Prime Minister claims that instability in Mali has diminished since we [the soldiers] have been on this mission. In fact, we should compare the current time with the period before 2012. I recall that it was precisely 2012 when France and, to some extent, the US intervened in support of the regime in Mali. This was the moment when the activities of Islamists were not yet widespread in the northern part of Mali, but there were Tuareek rebels, and 2012 was a real opportunity for an independent Asawadi state to emerge in the northern part of Mali. It was suppressed by the Malian army with the support of France and the United States. Since then, there has been a great deal of instability throughout the region. The Prime Minister also said that our aim is to remain in Mali in order to reduce Russia's influence there. First of all, this logic is very incomprehensible. Second of all, we're the last to get out of there. Sweden has announced that it will come out of there. Denmark's coming out of there. Even on the French side, there have been several signals that we have to consider whether we will remain there. What are we afraid of? Are we afraid to give France some kind of bad signal that maybe if we say we're gonna come back, they're gonna take their tanks away from Tapa? What exactly are we afraid of? In an earlier item, the Prime Minister confirmed that Estonia makes its decisions independently, but unfortunately, if you think logically, it seems not to be in Mali. Here we proceed purely from the wishes and clues of France. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U196	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U197	I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U198	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U199	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! We know we have a pandemic in the country. And now it has become apparent in the growing key that the pandemic has also hit our government. The so-called medical diagnosis of this pandemic is lying. Last week it was Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice, and Helle-Moonika Helme, who caught him lying to the people from this remote control, members of the Riigikogu. It's exactly the same here today. Once again, we have captured the next lying minister, Kalle Laaneti. How can I prove it? What do I make of that? It's not complicated. Just so I don't say that I'm gonna come up with something again, good journalists and others who want to, can control [my words]. 10 January, Committee on European Union Affairs. The government's mandate is to wish for Defence Minister Kalle Laane, and the issue is Mali. I'm not going to tell you the real details, because there was this infamous notation like "AK" on it, but I'll bring out the main postulates. Documentary material submitted to the EU Affairs Committee shows that the Ministry of Defence considers that there are no Russian troops in Mali. I can't believe it. I asked Kalle Laanet again how this could be possible. Kalle Laane confirmed that he wasn't. Okay. With reference to France 24, the French press media channel, I said that France 24 has provided information on the Russian forces operating in Mali in words, pictures and videos. Totally weird! By the way, the Slovenian press already talked about this on 3 January. This raises the question of whether the Ministry of Defence, along with the Minister of Defence, does not have an overview of what is happening in Mali. Doesn't the command know what his soldiers are doing there, what's the situation there? Or they come in public to lie to members of the Riigikogu, lie to their faces and say that the Russians are not there. It's full of shit! We live in a large information society, there is no point in lying to members of the Riigikogu. Not only is the people being lied to and the conflicting and insane talk being made, but this pandemic disease of lying has also reached the members of the Riigikogu by the mouth of the government. Another lie that Kalle Laane has made. On 22 September last year, Kalle Laane said that if a cooperation agreement is made with Wagner and Wagner's private army takes action in Mali, the Estonian contingent will come out. The Russians are there. Has the Estonian contingent left? No, it's not. And as I understand it, I don't intend to get them out of there because maybe the French will leave Tapa. Do you think the members of the Riigikogu are naive? These are different missions, one is NATO, and the other is the mission of the European Union. Different seeds do not produce the same fruit. When I asked Kaja Kallas today why Kalle Laane is lying or has no idea of the situation in Mali, the very short answer was: Kalle Laane always talks about what needs to be said, he always speaks right. Does this mean that Kaja Kallas doesn't really know what's going on in Mali? On the next question, the important thing, good members of the Riigikogu, is that, if you remember, the three missions in Mali were asked for [acceptance] with a clear objective so that our soldiers could help the government there. I'm not going to be specific, but as part of one mission, the soldiers have not moved a single thing. Not a thing! They're sleeping in the barracks because the mission we sent them to do is impossible. The important question is that the Riigikogu gave a mandate to carry out certain tasks, not to do so, as Mrs Kallas said now, that our task is to keep the Russians back there. No, that was not the task of the Riigikogu. This approach is comparable to going to the diner and ordering soup, and once the soup is in place, the diner will be rushed towards the kitchen and the dessert and steak will be grabbed. Such a thing must not be allowed, because the mandate has not been given by the Riigikogu for another task. These [soldiers] must come out of there. Within the framework of the same thing, when I had raised these issues, another special event happened. I was about to be collected, who might be the informants who tell me what's really going on in Mali? Searched here in Estonia and elsewhere. Imagine, according to a member of the Riigikogu, surveillance is initiated, for which the Ministry of Defence does not really have the right! It's chaos, let them do it. Well, you can keep looking. My source of information is France 24, which is being translated all over the world. Search there for their reporters. But now it's an important point. What to do with this pandemic inside the government of the Republic? Just like all COVID's patients: to isolate their homes so a normal government can come. This is the only solution to the situation where the pandemic phenomenon is government lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U200	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is difficult for me to dispute your view that the minister is accountable to the Riigikogu and that the Riigikogu is his employer. So I agree with one hundred percent that we need to work on a daily basis to strengthen our allies and work well with our allies. However, it is difficult to agree with the activities of the Minister of Defence, who, when making certain statements, shoots off his hip, and, if you think about it more narrowly, is not at all willing to cooperate with the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee, which is his committee of responsibility. Regrettably, he has not come to the Commission with a number of such issues and has not opened up these questions. We can also put restrictions on national defence secrets on these discussions in order to find the best solutions for Estonia on very complex issues, which certainly includes Mali's mission. This is not just a problem with Mali's mission. In fact, under the previous item, we discussed the issue of supporting Ukrainian armaments, and the exact same diagnosis can be made. In the Committee on National Defence, we have also raised the question, and it now seems that this will be resolved on the support of Poles of our strategic allies, so that this issue too will be negotiated, the National Defence Committee informed, a consensus and a common understanding have been achieved. In conclusion, good Prime Minister, I have a request and a message for the Minister of Defence. Take this to him. Remind him that the Riigikogu is an employer, the National Defence Commission is a committee in his field where he is always welcome to discuss any issues. And in the case of strategic messages such as the removal of the mission from Mali, he is actually obliged to come there to find this common ground. Perhaps this kind of coming will also cool his head a little bit and avoid shooting off his hips, make you think a little more strategically, because the National Defence Committee has a very strong competence. I am not thinking specifically of myself right now, but we have military personnel who have seen the war, and we also have people who have been involved in diplomacy there. So encourage the Minister of Defence to come to the Riigikogu and cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U202	No more calls, I will close the negotiations and we have exhausted this point. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. Power-kick!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U203	Our fifth item on the agenda today is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Jaak Juske, Eduard Odinets, Ivari Padari, Helmen Küti and Riina Sikkut on the readiness to deal with the further spread of COVID-19 infection. Riina Sikkut is welcome to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U204	Thank you, good manager. Indeed, two months ago, today exactly two months ago, the Social Democrats gave an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour to examine our readiness to deal with the further spread of the Corona infection. Of course, the first wave was a shock, there had to be a quick reaction, but now we already have so much experience in Estonia, there is more knowledge of the virus, there are supplies of personal protective equipment, the health care system with wisdom and the experience of crisis communication has always been added, not to mention vaccines. In view of all this, it is possible to plan how the local government behaves, how the school behaves, how private companies behave. Everyone needs to know that if infection rates go up and hospital loads start to increase, what is their role and what is expected of them. The White Paper, which we actually discussed in this Chamber almost a year ago, stated that it was intended to agree, in cooperation with businesses, organisations and citizens, what these steps should be in different situations of virus spread. However, this White Paper has not gone to the trouble of drawing up it, putting it into practice or implementing any other plan. Understandably, the crisis situation is creating uncertainty for people anyway. The only way to create peace and security is to know clearly what the next steps are: if this is the case, we will do this, and if this is the case, then such things need to be done. But as long as there's no plan, there's a lot of confusion. And we're still in a situation where there's no plan. In public, we simply follow the discussions of coalition partners, disputes, the process of agreement. It is very difficult for many parties to respond to it on a regular basis. What's the plan behind? What legislative changes are planned? What budget expenditure is planned? How do municipalities and schools get involved? What about the vaccination? Is there a new boost to the effectiveness of the doses, or is vaccination no longer seen as a priority in the current situation to prevent the spread of infection? What is the support now provided by hospitals? And the final question concerns the exit strategy. There is no doubt that society expects to return to the most normal functioning possible. However, to some extent the spread of infection should be prevented. How do we get out of the current situation so that our society is as open as possible, but we should not be afraid that the spread of the coronal infection will put the brakes on our functioning again? In total, we asked seven questions. Within two months, some of them may have become less relevant. At the same time, we and others in the Chamber have undoubtedly come up with new questions. We wait and listen with interest to the Minister's answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U205	A response has been requested from the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U206	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, there is, as you rightly say, a great deal of ignorance in the crisis. Most mistakes are made, but I want to say that on the other hand, the right decisions are also made. I guess these two years have shown you both. You wanted to know about my assessment of Estonia's current response to the COVID-19 crisis, and you pointed out here that there are always supporters and opponents for restrictions and other measures. Well, that's what we're seeing very well right now, isn't it? When it comes to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has really been the greatest challenge in recent history in terms of scale and duration, for practically all countries in the world, with a significant impact not only on health, but also on other sectors, other areas. Obstruction of pandemics plays an important role in establishing timely and adequate measures. Of course, vaccination has been of considerable importance since it was possible. Both the previous and today's governments have worked very hard here. Of course, all parliamentary parties have contributed in one way or another, as well as hospitals, health professionals, entrepreneurs, the media, all local authorities and many others. We're not really out of this pandemic yet, so to say what the final assessment is, it's a little early. If we review the main indicators of mortality, this is the burden on hospitals or, on the other hand, the situation and economic situation of businesses, we can say that we have actually managed to cope with this pandemic in general. In the European Union, there is a good example: Estonia is in the last third in terms of mortality during its COVID period. I mean, it's pretty close, but still. The Nordic countries are the main ones behind us, there are some other countries of the European Union. We have significantly higher mortality rates in most other Member States of the European Union, including other Baltic countries, for example. But, of course, every death for this person and his loved ones is a tragedy. All vaccine-avoidable deaths are a particular source of sadness in the view that we know that timely vaccination has saved many lives, could have saved even more if we had this coverage higher. From a business and economic point of view, Estonia has been one of the less restrictive countries in Europe and worldwide. We have never had curfews, we have never had such non-vaccinating duties, or other such very vigorous interventions, such as [entry] to events on people's private premises that concern homes, households. We have seen this in many parts of Europe and beyond. I think this has been the right way to go in the end. We have trusted many people themselves, given them the opportunity to act in a health-conscious manner. Of course, we have ensured that the rules are monitored, which are particularly important in preventing the spread of the virus, such as that the infected stays at home, masks are carried in public indoors, and we have respected all the other controls and rules of the COVID certificate that have been necessary at the time. In terms of vaccination, Estonia was one of the first countries in the world to start vaccination. We have had luck, or we can say, the result of a job in a good club, the European Union. If we had been outside the European Union, I can imagine what would have been the time frame for the vaccines to reach a small country. But since we are a Member State of the European Union, we received more vaccines and fewer vaccines on an equal footing with others, depending on what and how much someone ordered, but basically participating in joint procurement. Today we have about 63% of the population covered by the primary course. It should be taken into account that children under five years of age are not vaccinated, so adults are estimated to be about three quarters of the population over 60 years of age and today almost 78% have completed the vaccination course. Could be both numbers or all these numbers ten percent higher, then we would be on the European Union average level, today we are really behind it. Of course, there have been moments that could have been done differently by looking back. For example, all kinds of vaccine agreements, for which we know in hindsight what gets a marketing authorisation and what does not get a marketing authorisation, as well as decisions to mitigate restrictions in the health sector. If we know when the breakpoint comes, either up or down, then afterwards, of course, it's easier to evaluate them. But it can be said that the greatest and most signicant decisions have, in my opinion, gone in the right direction: so taking part in joint procurement in the view of vaccination, rather the choices of such soft restrictions and not very rigid and harsh social organisation. So such details and small individual decisions can, of course, be criticised and should be criticised, but I think, in the basics, we have responded adequately. I have already pointed out that this is actually a question not of what the government is doing, but of what society is doing. Perhaps people have been mostly responsible, reasonable, aware. These things go hand in hand. When people think that the government is overreacting, there will be protest and reluctance. As long as it is seen as a joint venture and a challenge, joint efforts will also be easier. And here, the COVID-19 scientific council and the Health Board and health professionals have certainly been a crucial place. It was not just a resolution spent by politicians, it was a scientific council; it is now possible to say that two different formations of expertise should be included. And, of course, we have learned quite a lot from other countries. I myself am active in constant communication with colleagues from the Baltic States and the Nordic countries, as well as with other ministers from outside the European Union, in order to learn the most from other decisions that have been taken both correctly and incorrectly. You asked me about the plan. The public has long had the expectation of a plan: a vaccination plan, a crisis plan, an exit strategy and so on. [You also asked] about when it will come and why you think too much is being responded to public opinion and infection rates on an ongoing basis. We have made quite a few plans during this crisis. As a rule, these plans have been adequate in their moments of time. After the first crisis, we also made an immediate plan for such a health system to overcome the crisis. We have indeed made a vaccination plan, several operational programmes for it. Now it's being updated. The White Paper has also been drawn up, as you rightly pointed out, and it has also been addressed in Parliament's Chamber. But it can be said that this crisis has been remarkably dynamic and that the change in virus strains has constantly changed the rules of the crisis. Just a simple example of the duration of the quarantine: at the beginning it was two weeks, today we are talking about seven days in close contact, in certain cases even less [time]. The advent of vaccines has changed considerably, and the different strains of viruses have, as has been said, had different properties, all of which have expected to be adapted again [the plans]. The kind of golden tea that is a solution plan, I have not seen for any of the countries of the European Union, must be honest. Even very successful countries, such as Denmark, which I consider to be a very successful country, have made absolutely cardinal, wall-to-wall decisions. There was in the meantime a society fully open, in the autumn again went on the line of restrictions when the wave came with the omicron trunk, and now everything is completely open again. None of these decisions has been directly planned anywhere to go back and forth, but the situation has dictated it by the arrival of new strains, new viral waves. Of course, we have tried to coordinate this work as much as possible in the Baltic countries, as you remember, we once had Baltic bubbles and such. At European Union level, too, we have coordinated, because very many rules apply to all Member States, these are travel restrictions, these perceptions are, for example, how long the vaccine certificate is valid, the evidence of failure or the evidence of a negative test, and so on, so that people are somewhat easier. It hasn't always worked, it's an honest answer. Even today, in fact, these rules often differ from country to country. But yes, national plans have all been of relatively short duration. It can be said that in just a few months' time, it can be seen that the plan should be radically redeployed or, at the very least, adjusted significantly. For example, with the implementation plan for vaccination, we are now doing this, updating it at least every quarter, if not more often. The crisis has also shown how difficult communication is in a rapidly changing situation. When people are told a long story and then it is fair to say that things have changed. For example, the vaccine's effectiveness to reduce infection is no longer 95%, but a few decades less, and hospital care continues to be significant, which inevitably causes some concern or a first reaction to what happened, whether misinformation has been reported in the meantime. In fact, the honest answer is that since we are dealing with the fifth dominant strain in Estonia today and the vaccines are also different, these numbers are constantly changing over time. It must always be explained that science is constantly changing and that the best knowledge is changing. You also asked about the third wave, maybe we've come through with avoidable losses, and what's the plan for the fourth wave? Well, actually, it's already on right now, you could say it's in the finish line, hopefully. It asked what preparations would be made, what expenditure is foreseen in the budget and what legislative changes would be envisaged. You could say in the fourth wave view, we're at the top of the infection now. Not only in the case of Estonia, we see this, but also in many other places: Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Austria, Slovenia. Our region's countries had an omicrontic strain in a somewhat different axis of time; it started from the west rather, from the Nordic countries, and has now moved eastwards. Perhaps this downward trend, which we have seen in Europe and the European Union for some time, has now reached Estonia. There is certainly an impact on measures and responsible human behaviour here, but very much also depends on the general logic of virus spread and the logic of different waves, which the Health Board and epidemiologists can explain in more detail. So this wave has been somewhat lighter in hospitals, while the burden on the health care system as a whole is still high, it is then the issue of letters of referral, the issue of sick leave or advice and treatment for people with milder symptoms at home, which many family doctors and family nurses have had to do. In hospitals' view, one problem has really been the widespread very active spread of the virus in society, which has meant that very many [hospital] workers have been excluded from work, which is why, at times, the measures and steps we have taken in the government have also been different from the usual one. For example, close contact self - isolation was known to be reduced from ten to seven days. Even five days were under discussion. We have made an exception to health care facilities that those COVID-positive people who have no symptoms and no fever in the last 24 hours may return to work. But there are also some rules that apply to each strain, such as wearing a mask, keeping a distance, testing for symptoms, being a rapid test or a PCR test. Of course, from the point of view of the hospital burden [reduction] and of life and health [handling], vaccination has been the last one in 2021 and is also the main measure in 2022 to overcome this crisis. Everyone can do that. I have stood by two governments to ensure that vaccines are available to everyone free of charge near home. We have actually spoken to you separately about the amendments to the law. There is a plan to amend the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act. Most political groups have been met, the last meetings are still coming before this proposal reaches Parliament. We can talk more about this in the round of questions than we care about. You also asked about the involvement of local authorities, schools and health care institutions. Of course, health care has always been involved in the north and south of the medical headquarters, with regular meetings being held with family doctors, in fact with entrepreneurs. The aim has been to keep the education sector as open as possible, for example through rapid tests, as well as through vaccination and effectiveness doses. In all this crisis, the main burden has been on both the health and social partners of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board and the Social Insurance Board. In the field of education, HTM in particular has been the carrier of this and, of course, has worked closely with our Ministry and the Health Board. We have involved local governments, for example, in the organisation of vaccinations. They play a major role in communication, communication with economic operators and event management, as well as a certain role in establishing a range of measures which are primarily indicative. For example, the decision to cancel or take events is often a matter for local governments. The objectives of the effectiveness dose were asked: what is the target of coverage we are pursuing this year? By this year, we have set out both in the COVID-19 vaccination action plan and in the Health Insurance Fund's score card that, by the end of the year, the population over the age of 12 will be covered by 80% of the primary course. As intermediate targets, we want the [vaccine rate] to reach 80% of the population aged over 60 by the end of March. Among the 18-year-olds, the efficiency dose could be at least half of society and 60% of the age group over 60 by the end of this quarter. At the moment, we're somewhere in the elderly at 54%. We can see that the protection of older people with effective doses is greater, which is primarily a good job for family doctors and nurses, and certainly a health-conscious choice for these [age] people. The protection of the vaccine is reduced over time, especially in older people who are already at higher risk. We will, of course, continue to ask for a personal vaccination, to send SMS messages and to work with family doctors, local authorities and regional coordinators. In the case of nursing homes, the Social Insurance Board has taken on a great deal of work to increase the coverage of vaccinations, to provide recommendations and guidance through the Health Insurance Fund to ensure that there is as much coverage as possible for both carers and residents. You could say that today he really is, objectively. Perhaps the burden that once came from the health system through nursing homes is significantly lower today due to vaccination. There was also talk of the burden on hospitals and of keeping society open, that the burden on the health care system would remain high in the crisis. On the one hand, I agree with that: the health sector is, of course, the main burden carrier. But we have also significantly supported hospitals, with EUR 540 million in the case of the previous government, for the wider health care system. In the COVID-19 crisis, an additional hundreds of millions of euros have been allocated for isolation rooms, personal protective equipment, testing, vaccination, health care workers' extra costs, reorganization of hospital work and many more. This has been the only right thing, I think that in the field of health, money has not had to be raised from one treatment line to another, but COVID-19 treatment has always received additional resources from both Estonia and the European Union. And yet, in fact, our hospital care burden compared to the rest of the Baltic States has been reduced in almost all of the times of the crisis, is still present. For example, when we are talking about opening [the society], Lithuania made its decision to stop requesting a COVID certificate on the burden of hospital care almost twice as much as it is in Estonia today. Latvia is still considering these decisions. We're talking about getting out of the fourth wave today. We hope, however, that this wave is at the end of the line, and in the near future we will come out of it. We will, of course, closely monitor the burden on hospitals as well as the general health and functioning of society, and we will gradually emerge from these restrictions and rules together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U207	It is certainly possible to clarify the issues further. Begin Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U208	Good manager! Dear Minister, In your reply, you said the government would constantly consult the scientific council and then make decisions. I think the last topic has been the corona pass. A few days ago, Toivo Maimets, the current head of the scientific council, said that the government has never once asked him what to do with this corona pass, whether or not it is necessary, we throw it into the trash can. In fact, I understand that there are two scientific councils now and, depending on which government party is useful, it is being asked. My more question is that I don't understand what kind of message you're sending. Last week's decision was that all doctors could come to work sick. I understand that when they come to the hospital, they put them in [defence] clothes so they can't make others sick. But are they already in those costumes when they come to the hospital or when they go home? How can this [decision] be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U209	Thank you. In fact, the scientific council is currently constantly advising the government, and this morning we also had a meeting with the Prime Minister and health leaders. We have also sent written questions about self-insulation, decisions of children's and educational institutions. The issue of COVID's proof has indeed been, in many respects, a government decision. Different countries have used it very differently, some have never used it, some have had three alternatives, vaccination, testing, some countries like Estonia have had three, now two alternatives. This is primarily a government decision, as a reasonable balance must be struck between health, society and the functioning of entrepreneurship. At the moment, we have indeed established criteria that could be removed from [the certificate requirement] from 21 February at national level, a week earlier in the case of children. But I would point out that giving up the COVID certificate doesn't even mean a gram doesn't have to be vaccinated. Vaccination continues to be the most health-conscious, reasonable choice for both those who have no primary shed and those who are able to make an effective dose. Now, as far as the other side of the question is concerned, perhaps this... I'm sorry, I had a wire of my own [total], a thought thread for a moment [disrupted]. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Yeah, health care professionals, sorry! The self-isolation of health professionals, as I indicated, is, for example, what we have asked the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board for feedback, including infectionists and hospital managers, and assessed how it would be reasonable to ensure the continuity of hospitals in terms of relatively wide spread of the virus and to mitigate maximum risks. Indeed, it has been estimated that if a person who has given a positive sample, e.g. five or six days later, has not had any symptoms for 24 hours, he or she feels well, he or she will be able to return to work using certain personal protective equipment and other safety measures, such as a negative test in advance. These are all such pandemic solutions, of course we do not apply them in normal circumstances. However, in a situation where we know that the resources of our health professionals are limited, a choice must be made whether a particular department is working part-time on that day or does not receive patients at all, reduces admission or comes to work without symptoms and using personal protective equipment. And it's actually hospitals, health institutions very competent to evaluate. In addition to the expertise of the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board, we also took as a basis the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) guide, which also addresses these opportunities. Health care professionals are also sure to be able to mitigate these risks when moving to work. Knowing that the spread of the virus in society as a whole is significant, there is no reason to believe that the employment of individual asymptomous health professionals would significantly increase this risk in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U210	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U211	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question, too, is communication. You've been a minister for a really long time and you've been in this whole situation. But what was heard in the Riigikogu's free week is immediately annoying. That's gonna upset you! How can it be that there is such a pingpong debate about people's health and lives at stake in the pressure of the Centre Party between the two departments of government? Shouldn't this still be the case that you, as Minister for Industry, stand up in this debate and say that there will be an end to all this flour and that we will listen to what scientists think? Of course, Mr Grünthal can also be heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U212	Thank you. Fortunately, Estonia is a democratic state where all members of the Riigikogu, political groups, the Minister of Health and members of the Scientific Advisory Board can express their views, both former and current members of the Scientific Advisory Board. The fact that there are different opinions in society is commonplace. The current crisis debate, I watch the media of other countries a lot, we see very similar discussions in other Baltic countries, Nordic countries, Europe as a whole, not to mention Great Britain, may or may not be upset, but there is no one correct answer or solution in this crisis that all countries can align with. Countries choose their own path based on best considerations. With regard to this particular initiative of the central group of the Riigikogu, proposals were indeed made on their own, [their] understanding of how to emerge from the crisis gradually. I think it is good that we have specific criteria agreed in society at government level on how we emerge from the [crisis]. In the case of children, we know that the requirement for a COVID certificate on 14 February will disappear internally. And in the case of adults, we know that if the necessary criteria are met, i.e. the 10-day average being less than 25 symptomatic COVID-19 patients who arrive at the hospital, we will be able to take this [proof requirement] down on 21 February. I agree that communication could always be more polite or thoughtful. But the right to express different opinions cannot be withdrawn in any way during a crisis. Looking at this scientific debate, I believe you've noticed, you've read, it's common practice that one scientist is answered by another scientist and says I'm sorry, I think things are like this, and both are right from their own angle. But as time passes, it may be that both are eventually wrong or both experts have proved correct. A long answer, but unfortunately there is no golden solution here that the Minister of Health says and the whole world obeys.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U213	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U214	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would actually like to continue on this subject, which was started by Mr Padar: communication. Throughout the last few years, throughout this crisis, we have been talking about the importance of communication, the importance of the messages that come through the members of the Riigikogu, through the Board of the Riigikogu, through the government departments, through the ministers, through the government. What took place last week was sent to one another by government departments, ministers, prime minister and president of the Riigikogu, sending press releases, presenting ultimatums. Luckily, we had a chance to meet a lot of people last week, a week off. People don't know what's going on. People don't understand these messages. People were ready to throw away COVID's passports on the same day, take off their masks and stop vaccination, because people don't understand what restrictions we're talking about. What is it going to end? Keep what? But you write letters to each other, rather than sit down until the white smoke arrives, and then come with a message before the people. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why did you choose this communication strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U215	Thank you. After all, these discussions have actually been held in government for a long time, and I can assure you that far from every debate, neither the Coalition Council, nor the Group's meeting, nor the Government's meeting, nor the press releases. I will give you an example of asking for a COVID certificate in the field. This debate has been a few months now, I have said it in December, and I am also of the opinion that this restriction could be lifted in the field. This assessment was also shared by the Scientific Advisory Board yesterday. But now we are talking more broadly about removing [the restrictions]. It's the same for the kids. Since children were actively tested in schools, it has actually been entirely adequate to review this [limit]. We did not come to an agreement immediately, but we have now agreed on 14 February. In fact, communication in some ways, as I said, is an inevitable part of politics. Of course you're saying that the government must always sit down and then make a deal. But there are two political parties in the government, and both parties have a slightly different vision, a different view of resolving the crisis. I didn't see any ultimatums in here. The aim was to agree on the conditions for exiting the crisis, the conditions for abolishing the COVID certificate at national level. I think that there are more than ten different opinions on this issue in this Chamber as well. You insist that you sit down and make a deal, but maybe that's not the deal. In this case, it is possible to state the position that the faction of the Central Party of the Riigikogu and the delegation of governments did at the time, and I am pleased that, in fact, after that, we also found the necessary agreements relatively quickly and that we are working and acting on these agreements at the moment. The fact that people may have had questions about the agreement. But the role of both the government and the member of the Riigikogu is to explain what debate is going on and what choices are. As I referred to earlier, following this debate everywhere else, it is in no way specific to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U216	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U217	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The news came today that the Health Board proposed that all positive rapid tests should no longer be tested for PCR. When a person is ill, he stays home and simply asks the family doctor for a disability page. But we actually know why all those people who feel sick and do positive at home are about to sign up for a PCR test. It's to get the white person's passport to participate in society. This is what unvaccinated people, young people, children, and now those whose vaccinations lasted nine months. If access to the PCR test is restricted, how will these people in the future be able to use their infirm status as equivalent for participation in society? And is the purpose of this decision no longer to take account of the infirmity and direct people to vaccinate, or what is the purpose of this decision of the Health Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U218	Thank you. A very appropriate theme raiser. This specific proposal came from the Health Board due to the need to keep the testing volume affordable for the country. We won't be able to test forever. We know that it is expensive, first of all, and it is very time-consuming in the view of both health professionals and ordinary people. The decision was, of course, made by the government, and I certainly will not delegate it anywhere. The government developed a position, which was actually proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, that it would not normally be considered necessary to overconfirm positive tests. However, if a person needs a PCR test, or needs evidence of breakthrough, for example for travel, he or she will be able to continue applying for it. Refuse a PCR test after a positive rapid test has been performed, no. It's just general, whether we direct these people, say you have to overconfirm, or we actually say that we generally trust, consider this antigen test. Now I'm going to say some target groups with no need for a PCR test. For example, in the case of people who have received an effective dose, their vaccine certificate is valid in Estonia for 12 months; in the European Union, no end date has been agreed. For them, the evidence of penetration does not have any additional value, and there are 400000 in Estonia, those who received the dose of effectiveness. Similarly, children under 12 years of age are generally not asked for such evidence when travelling to another country. When moving within the [Estonia] country, no questions were ever asked about the age of 12. So in their case, once again, it is of no value to receive this evidence of infirmity. The COVID certificate was valid all the time from the age of 12, never less than that. So there are quite a number of target groups, nearly half of society, you can say for whom the PCR test is not necessary as evidence. But whoever needs it can still take that test. Now the other side. I well agree that this decision must be reviewed at European Union level, i.e. on the basis of which the evidence of infirmity is issued. At present, it is really only issued on the basis of a PCR test in accordance with the Regulation. It would make sense to bring in an antigen test that has also become accurate enough. It has also been proposed that a diagnosis already introduced by a healthcare professional should serve as a basis. Clearly, then, he is already developing a lot of trust in issuing a certificate. But it is also an option, we can see that the pandemic gradually becomes more affordable for countries and there is no need to keep such a strict line on these rules and restrictions. There will also be a meeting of the European Union's health ministers in France this week, where I will once again raise this issue and ask minors for a COVID certificate. Today, [the minors] are in a situation where their certificate is valid for nine months in the European Union in a situation where no effective dose is given. I think this is ridiculous and it should either be renewed or the efficacy dose authorised, if deemed necessary by health experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U219	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U220	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Looking aside, as a member of the Riigikogu, it seems that you are dating the Reform Party like a country competition. One offers dates, the other offers more, offers closer. This also seems to be the case for people who watch all of this, not from Toompea, but from elsewhere. My question is that, as a minister in this field, you will be informed by family doctors, though the association of doctors, the members of the scientific council are concerned about the increase in the burden on hospitals. There was a draft in this Chamber that would have legalised the possibility of [use of rapid tests] to access various events. If the Centre Party actually had a desire to do so, and as your minister, you think that these rapid tests could be a tool, why did this draft not be supported by the members of your own party, who are now talking very loudly about it? There were many people in this Chamber who supported it, including me and the drafters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U221	Thank you. You are a representative of a party belonging to the coalition and also a former minister, so you certainly know that it is the custom that if something is to be done at the level of law or decision, then it will be agreed first. Since there was no agreement on this issue, this draft was not supported by the legislator in this Chamber. But our position, which we have expressed in the past in the government and coalition council, was that rapid tests should be brought back as an alternative. This would be one way of gradually starting an exit from the existing rules. However, since there was no agreement, this decision was not made. We are now acting on the basis of what we have decisions, i.e. the loss of the COVID certificate from 14 February for children and from 21 February if the criteria are met, also for adults. The fact that the two parties have different opinions, views, is, in my opinion, self-evident in politics. We do not have any political parties in this Parliament with one identical understanding for one, either on COVID's pandemic issues or on a broader scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U222	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U223	Thank you. Indeed, communication has been as incomplete as it can be. First of all, the mask won't help, then the mask will help, and in the meantime the scarf was recommended and so on. But I understand that from February 21st, the COVID will no longer be asked for proof. My question is, how do you motivate people to make an effective dose or to give the first injection at all, because people have a sense in communication that there is no point in vaccinating, omicron is trivial like a cold and a small cough, and it's not crazy. At the same time, I also have the question that, for example, when you go to practice, you knew that at least there were people with a COVID passport, as well as in the sauna, but now it's all back together. Don't you think it's a very high risk to our people's health? Or how do you explain it? Are they going to perform rapid tests before going to the sauna or exercise? How can this be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U224	Thank you. Let's start at the beginning: mask communication. In many ways, this was due to the emergence of a new virus and the gradual development of scientific expertise. At first, the World Health Organisation was not very convinced about the [Mask wearing] recommendation; they have also changed their communication with regard to both testing and masks. So did a lot of experts. Access to masks was also a problem in Estonia and the European Union as a whole, as you remember. Personal protective equipment was so scarce at the beginning that when it had to be decided whether we were all wearing a mask in the street outside, as is the case in some countries today, or whether we were channeling these resources into health care, for example, it seemed only reasonable to make this last choice and [direct the resource] to health care, to the care sector, to elsewhere. Now, with regard to the loss of the COVID certificate, February 21 is really conditional. There are certain criteria back there, right? On 17 February, it will be clear whether the hospital care burden has stabilised enough, in a downward trend to provide this relief. We hope it is. I understand the concern that the safety of [these] activities will increase. But the fact is that the vaccine was never designed to eliminate the spread of infection, the vaccine was designed to prevent people from getting seriously ill, these are two different things. It will continue to be worthwhile whether or not we have a COVID certificate in the country. And when you go to practice, the safest way to protect your health is to have a previously vaccinated, effective dose. Then there is no need to be afraid of [infection] in practice, in public transport or in the grocery store, where no one is actually asking for COVID's proof today. In some ways, I see a social problem here when we somehow get the idea that now we're letting some other people back into the media, too, at times, and now we don't dare go anywhere because there are people who are not vaccinated. I do not think that this is very sustainable in terms of social cohesion. The people of Estonia are all our people, regardless of whether they have been vaccinated. Health-conscious choice is to get vaccinated. It is a sensible choice for the functioning of the health system, the state and society, in order to protect its own health. But if, for whatever reason, a person has avoided it, I don't think it's right to throw him out of society to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U225	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You call those people who have been injected, responsible. But now the same responsible people get sick, get sick without symptoms and get sick twice or three times in a row. As sick, they go to crowded places, travel around, and thus bring new strains into the country. Omicron also came to us this way through these responsible people, that's how it's always been. These responsible people in your sense do not test themselves because it is you and the other members of the government and the scientific council who have instilled them that they are responsible and that they are safe because they have evidence of infection safety. My question is this: how responsible is it to continue to promote such false safety, continue to talk about injecting-injection and this evidence is important?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U227	Thank you. When you listened to my answers, I stressed that the vaccine was never designed to prevent infection. This has been the main message of our ministry since the beginning, it is the protection of life and health. This has been the case with previous vaccines and is the case with current vaccines. Absolutely. If a speaker has said anything else or if some research has shown something else in the meantime, it can all be. But my main message has been during this crisis, especially the last year we have had a vaccine to do it to protect life and health. In the meantime, it did quite well to reduce infection, especially in previous strains. Now that we're looking at the numbers of hospital patients, you said [that vaccinated] get sick no, these people can usually get infected, but they don't get sick. However, people who have not been vaccinated are seriously ill. It's black on white mathematics, I see these reports every day for two years. According to this morning's condition, I can tell you that there are 241 patients in the hospital because of the symptomatic COVID, 69% of them unvaccinated. The proportion of people vaccinated at around 30% of the time was really 20% in a situation where, for example, the number of people vaccinated in society is over 70%. It's black on white mathematics, like it or not. It's a multiple difference. For efficacy doses, Professor Fischer's calculations show a 25-fold difference. So in this light, if you ask if it's more responsible not to get vaccinated, take the lottery that I'm going through, maybe it's going well, but maybe I'm going to go to the hospital, or then vaccinate and reduce the risk 25 times, it's naturally more responsible to vaccinate, to do an effectiveness dose. From the point of view of the spread of the virus, you have to stay at home if you have symptoms. Rapid tests must be used actively, many jobs do so, including in the health field. But infection and illness are two different things. We have had free vaccination available to all Estonian people. Regardless of the fact that the previous government also had your party's position that this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U228	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Regrettably, the government's actions have been such that you come to us yesterday and take tomorrow's paper with you. Communication and all this activity, the imposition of restrictions and everything else have been based on that logic. And I think the cherry on that cake is that now it's said that you can come to work if you're sick, even to the hospital [you can come to work] if you don't have a fever. If you really catch a fever with the tablet, you should not come, but under other conditions, such as cough and sore throat [may]. And not only to the hospital, but to everything else when you're a frontline worker. Don't shake your head! It was on the news this morning, and I just checked it out, and it's still up like this. However, you refuse to stop using the COVID passport. Well, that doesn't make any sense! Do you agree with me? Absurd!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U230	Thank you. Let's start with the details. As of the moment, this derogation applies only to healthcare professionals. It is indeed a debate on whether to do so more widely, for example, in certain vital services. Tomorrow, the government will meet at the Cabinet meeting and discuss it, [to be heard] both the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board's assessment. The problem with this whole pandemic, including health establishments, is that we do not only have one disease in the world, one virus to fight with, but a whole series of health concerns about cancers, traumas, operations, cardiovascular diseases, other receptions, and the resources of health professionals are limited. This is funding for the health sector of the Estonian state over the past decades, it can be said that under-funding, the consequence that health workers are simply understaffed. We have fewer nurses than we have on average in Europe, much less than the WHO recommends. People are overloaded. And if it is optimized enough not to say that the sub-built health care sector is accompanied by a new challenge in the form of a pandemic, then we are in a situation where it is important for hospitals that every single employee, if he does not have symptoms, can come to work, otherwise we must start to cancel a response and thus deepen the health concerns of other people. This is a difficult choice for hospitals and other health care institutions. This initiative has not come from the government, but from health institutions, from infectiousists, precisely to prevent the treatment and accumulation of people with other health problems that have already occurred during the pandemic. Losing the COVID certificate. That is what I have said in my opinion, that is what our group and the government delegation have said. In my opinion, vaccination continues to be a necessary and sole choice to prevent illness, to protect life and health. But COVID's evidence as such today no longer serves its original purpose, which it once did very well, at national level. But as a travel document, it stays with us for a while. So it is worth vaccinating both those who want to protect their lives and health and those who want to travel more easily in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U231	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U232	I have a question I got from the doctor who prescribed me the evidence. He specifically said that hospitals use 4,000 units of vitamin D when a person gets there immediately with COVID. They therefore consider this to be an effective instrument. Question: do you know this type of treatment, and if you do, why doesn't it get to the press, why isn't it being discussed? Maybe it's a good preventive tool if he's used in hospitals, and in that case people might not even get in the hospital, they wouldn't get in the ICU if they had such an immunity-enhancing device.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U233	Thank you. If you want to know about the specific nature of hospital care, it makes sense to arrange for a meeting with a hospital head or head of care, some of whom have previously been members of the scientific council, or even now, when we are talking about PERH, for example. In hospitals, the main medical devices generally needed by COVID patients have been the provision of additional oxygen, or oxygen therapy. Remdesivir has also often been used, as well as certain antibody cocktails and certain inhibitors that we have also acquired, and has been dealt with with all kinds of other medical needs that result from other human symptoms. But if you ask how many more vitamins are given there and in what circumstances it is done, it's best, I think, to let the medical people talk about it themselves. Unfortunately, today there is really no over-the-counter access to such good anti-COVID-19 medicines. The first is now coming: Pfizer's Paxlovid has shown some pretty good results, as well as a Molnupiraphimer, whose figures are not quite as good, but still have an effect when you start using it on time. So, gradually, treatment will certainly become more accessible to both ordinary patients and those in need of hospital care.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U234	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Tanel swing! As we know, the best way to analyse any research results and make treatment decisions for a medicinal product that is undoubtedly a vaccine is to reduce the absolute risk. Pfizer did this study, the data became public in September, and the risk of disease was assessed separately in the placebo group and in the vaccine group, with an absolute risk reduction of 0.84%. You see, 0.84% of the total population, and we're locking the whole economy down, restrictions on the whole economy, and all the other shit you've come up with. My question is: where does the claimed 95% efficacy of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine come from? And explain the absolute risk reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U236	Thank you. Firstly, the effectiveness you referred to was somewhat for the earlier strain, right, when these vaccines were initially studied and obtained marketing authorisations. For new strains, the risk of infection is reduced, but the [vaccine] continues to work quite well in hospital care. This zero point something per cent has to look at the context of the study, which is exactly what it was and what it was compared with. In this case, I suspect it was not 100% compared to 100%. Looking at both research and simple black white statistics, or how you like to call it, for the countries of the European Union, we see a very clear trend that there is a higher mortality rate in those countries with lower vaccination rates and vice versa. It's black in white, you can justify it with any other criteria if you want, but unfortunately, in terms of mortality, the countries with lower than average vaccination coverage are at the top. The burden of hospital care is also at greater risk for these countries. On the contrary, faster openings and widespread spread of the virus are able to cope without overburdening hospitals in those countries where vaccination coverage is greater. Before our own eyes in real time, there is a massive, so-called scientifically monitored, day-to-day process involving hundreds of millions of people, in which we see how vaccines help very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U237	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U238	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Let's talk about freedom. Your coalition partner has put such conditions in place that this freedom will not come to us. In ten days, we're gonna start counting that ten days, I guess, from today, 7. [February] to 17. [February] the number of patients who are hospitalised should fall below 25. Was there a [wrong] mistake in my thinking? It was said that this is how I understand this communication, that only then will we get more free from 21 February, so if he gets more free or not. But my question is, if a patient is taken to a hospital for an appendic surgery and there are medics who no longer have to do a PCR test, then the patient in the appendic surgery may get a COVID, which means that we may not even have [hospitalisation] less than 25 by midsummer day. What do you say to people, is my math wrong or is it just crazy communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U239	Thank you. I will start by saying this, as I said in my opening statement, that Estonia is still a very liberal, very open country throughout this pandemic. It is certainly a matter of time for us to leave the pandemic, too, not of whether we are doing this. The other side, as I pointed out: this specific decision that, in certain cases, hospital workers who have already recovered from the hospital are estimated to be able to return to work, has been made by the government on the basis of the expertise of health experts, infectiousists, scientific councils, the Health Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Of course, every hospital has to comply with all existing safety rules, both today and in the future, that is the use of personal protective equipment or that which person can work in the department. So, no, I don't think that hospital care would make anyone significantly riskier, rather it increases the possibility of a person receiving this particular care while in hospital care. In the event of a very large number of workers being excluded, there may be a situation where hospitals are unable to serve all those in need. That is the purpose of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U240	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U241	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm also asking about communication. There were a number of questions, but there's no way I can be satisfied with the answers. Of course, we have freedom of expression, of course people have different opinions, coalition partners have different opinions, it is normal, it is allowed, the debate is healthy. But when we talk about crisis communication, when coalition partners hold a public debate for a week, which is right, it is interesting how long it will take for people to understand what the government's message is after the agreement. It is not a question of restricting the freedom of opinion of someone, but of whether or not the government wants its rules or restrictions or recommendations or whatever they agreed to be followed. How does the government, in the event of mixed messages, imagine that people will finally follow these agreed rules? Is there an additional effort in communication or how can this confusion be resolved in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U242	Thank you. I will start by saying that the government is very united in communication on key issues. The whole government, both parties say that people, if you want to protect your life and your health, go and vaccinate, do an effectiveness dose. In indoors, in crowded places, there is a requirement to wear a mask, and no one has contested it. Similarly, we have agreed to a certain stage exit from the COVID certificate, that is clearly stated. On 14 February, without any criteria, the requirement for a COVID certificate for minors will be abolished. I think this is a very positive, clear message. Until then, maybe this week it's still valid. If we see that hospital care burden is stable or in a mild downward trend, particularly in the case of symptomatic COVID-19 patients, this requirement will also disappear in adults as from 21 February. If we see a second position on 17 February, we will be in a different situation. We hope that the situation of hospitals will improve, improve, as we are seeing now a clear stabilisation in the case of infection and hopefully a downward trend this week. Of course, these messages must be communicated by both the government and the Health Board [repeatedly], and we do so weekly. It can now be said that Estonian people's awareness of the rules in force is quite good according to surveys. It is true that compliance with restrictions and rules, along with a fall in perception of danger, has also gradually fallen, but this is the case regardless of government communication. If a sense of danger falls, then for example, being self - isolation in close contact and so on will begin to decline as people themselves perceive the danger as less. This has often been objective, i.e. if the spread of the virus decreases in society, then objectively the risk of infection is somewhat lower. However, this does not mean that the risk is zero. We will work to ensure communication is as good as possible, and we will also ask and expect good cooperation and help from all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U243	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. We can go to the negotiations. First, Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U244	Good manager! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the simple message of the last six months is this: communication, communication and communication. What has happened in our society in connection with corona communication is the best example of how one government cannot provide information through communication. In December, we had the Otepää Cup Competitions in the double, and there were 1,500 spectators outside. At the same time, there may have been 3,000 people together in Saku Suurhall. And then we go to a diner where we don't know what the evidence is, we limit the time and we don't know what's going on. I'm listening to Karmen Joller, who says that nursing doesn't give you any immunity. And then Arkadi Popov says you'll get the best security when you're through. Which one am I supposed to believe? I've had enough. Then they say they should give at least one injection. Well, my husband thought we had to do two. As soon as we had the chance to get an injection under 60 years of age, my wife and I grabbed each other's hands and had these two injections done. Now we get reports every day that we have to make another dose. No one talks about having had a disease and two doses, whether or not you have to make a [enhancing] dose. I've been injected with Pfizer. Should I make the third dose of effectiveness with Pfizer, Moderna or something? No matter who you ask, the answers are different. Okay, my wife and I took a hand, we went out, and we did the efficiency dose. We had heard that some of them had the effect that when they switched the vaccine, the signs of nettle [rash] appeared as if they had been burned or something else. Well, we did it, and now we've had it, and we've got three doses of vaccine. I listen to the Minister here saying that the government listens to the scientific council on all matters and then makes a decision. Then, on the weekend, I read Toivo Maimets, who says very clearly that he has never been asked by the government about losing his korona pass. Who am I supposed to believe now? We in this Chamber are certainly much more informed than most Estonian citizens. At the same time, we must admit that the information we receive is so difficult from one wall to another that it is extremely difficult to find the truth from it. Irja Lutsar speaks on the third topic. He says we should lose the corona passports tomorrow. We always knew that when you were sick and had two shots, you'd be like an old god behind you and nothing would happen. Now I hear what's a total surprise for me: if you've done the efficiency dose, then your protection has fallen below 30%. Wait, where did this come from? Have any of you, ladies and gentlemen, heard this before? I always hoped that this efficiency dose would give 25 times the confidence that the TV advertises. Friday I hear the Ministry announces a public procurement. A million and a half, or in any case over a million, was the [amount to be spent] that would be... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U245	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U246	...through the media to explain how and what to do. What does it explain? If there are four or five people, there are four or five different opinions. We could finally make a deal. Let them all sit together, fight as long as the pope's election, until the white smoke comes out of the chimney. Let them agree on the message they're coming out with tomorrow. I agree that maybe in two weeks knowledge will be different. But then let's say we were wrong two weeks ago, and now our knowledge is like that, so let's do it. But no. We have an understanding that we need to keep everything occupied. February 21, will the sun shine differently in the morning? I don't know. At this point in time, when you look at these numbers, you don't fall ill. There hasn't been as great a order of magnitude in two years as it is now. Does it make sense to have a korona pass? I don't see it. A few weeks ago, it turned out that hospitals have more vaccinees than unvaccinated people. It makes sense in one way or another. If 62% of us have been vaccinated, well, then there's some kind of logic that almost one third of them are, but now they're both equally ill. Before it was a third, it was claimed, and two thirds. It is now no longer said that unvaccinated people get worse. Nobody says, nobody says. Is that true or is it not? If anyone asks me, yes, I recommend that everyone be vaccinated. I'm not against vaccination. But 40% of society has been expelled today. One thing is that we punish people who have not been vaccinated. Okay. I ask why these mothers are not punished or restricted by the rights of those who do not allow their children to be vaccinated in their first years of life. There's a bunch of them. I looked up the page. It's also a vaccination. They don't take anything away, they don't ban them from going anywhere. But in the case of one virus, all the bans are on. It's time for us to open up society. Grip times have always been. It is forgotten that the same virus was in Canada at the beginning of this century, and in two years it disappeared completely. Today we can also see that the new mutations have been, fortunately, weaker. Cases of illness are [mild], so there is no need to go to the hospital. But in my opinion, what is currently happening in the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs has clearly failed. Communication is zero. I would advise the Prime Minister to replace all this company. If he doesn't have the courage to change ministers, the minister could always come in front of us and boldly say that we've made mistakes, we're learning, we want to make it better. But right now, I'm gonna make sure the head of the Health Department says one thing and the minister says the same thing in three hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U247	I must apologize to Riina Sikkut. First of all, we should have let the representative of the heirs, who we have Riina Sikkut, take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U248	Thank you, Mr President. So I'm talking about plan and communication, too. Indeed, in my opinion and in my view, the expectation of a plan lies in society at large, but the Minister's understanding of what this plan is [is incomprehensible]. He described the example of Denmark as opening, closing, opening. We can't say we're closing in September, we're opening in January. The question is that people have an understanding of the order in which we do things, which is a priority. The feeling remains that schools are a priority, schools are kept open. But if measures need to be taken, will we start with [restricting] entertainment or will we start with teleworking or recommending homework? What are the restrictions or concessions that will be made at first speed, and what are the priority [areas] that will be kept open and unlimited as long as possible? And what is the [what is] plan also in relation to the roles of the various parties? Indeed, in the case of local governments, much has been written and said about the lack of understanding of the responsibility of one or the other party, what expectations are, and how cooperation and exchange of information look like. Both prioritising and clear roles and responsibilities are then municipalities, other organisations, companies, and these are the things that should be in place. And maybe how the decision is made. Indeed, what is the role of the Scientific Advisory Board, [which is] a political decision on how decisions are communicated. Today in this Chamber, this communication issue really has come to the fore. I can only agree with the story of Aivar Koka and add to it in the sense that if we already do not understand what restriction is in force or which decision was made, or whether a decision was made at all, it is very unlikely that a large part of Estonia will understand. I think a couple of wrong assumptions are made by the Minister and perhaps other members of the government. One is that people live and consume information only to understand the corona restrictions and the government's subsequent decisions. The Minister also said somehow that we decided that on 17 February we were going to make this, this and this decision on this basis, that we have been communicating. And it's true that they've been communicating it. The question is how many people have actually heard and understood it, and I think the government's assessment of how many people have actually heard and understood it is too optimistic. In the summer, I also read with surprise the headlines that at least one vaccination station will be opened this week in every county. Indeed, the question arose as to whether there had been [some places] in the past. Turns out there was a county where they didn't exist. The same way [even when] the person asked whether he was suffering from the disease and what his background was, what he had to do and where his vaccine could not be recommended, although I consider myself a relatively well-informed person. The second confusing or false assumption that the government has made is that this argument, this debate, this is all normal and we will finally say what decision we have come to. [Government] does not understand that such confusion sends a signal that the government itself does not know what it is doing. So this debate may seem entirely factual, wholesome to the members of the government, but this debate itself signals that opinions are different and the decision-makers themselves do not know what to do. The wish that the agreed society will be followed throughout is also understandable, but it is very difficult to believe that this will actually happen because there is also confusion about what needs to be done, what is allowed and what is not allowed. Indeed, the willingness to follow mixed messages is probably much less than [readiness to follow messages], which people understand that this is the government's one and clear message, that is the expectation that we have, and these are the things that we do from this perspective. I'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U249	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U250	Okay, plan-making and communication. Today, the Minister's answers gave the impression that we do not know what is right and what is wrong, that this will become clear afterwards, and that the outcome of the debate should somehow lead to the right solution. I think we had a debate right here in the Riigikogu after the first chorona wave, where Mati Raidma, with a very hard crisis experience, said that the crisis is that there is always too little information, the environment changes and mistakes are made, mistakes are always made. So in a crisis, you cannot know what is right or what is wrong; in a crisis, the other criteria are that there is clarity in decisions, roles and responsibilities, as well as the fact that [that] is able to react very well and clearly. If the environment changes or it turns out that the previous restriction did not work or the decision did not serve this purpose, then it is not necessary to justify its decision afterwards, but a new decision must be taken. Like the Danish example, we open or close. Can't say one was wrong or the other was the right decision. [It is important] that the decision is consensually taken together and communicated together, and that it is very clearly justified why it is done, what the expectations of the various parties are, which are the next steps, when we look at the decision on when we will react again according to the indicators. We don't need to know exactly which decision we're going to make, but the pattern has to be clear. Today, too, it has been reflected from this remote control that either we listen to the scientific council or we make a political decision. In the same way, in order to avoid confusion [in this case], it should be understood whether only the knowledge-based decisions recommended by the Scientific Advisory Board are made or whether, in the end, a political decision is made, which may be contrary to what the Scientific Advisory Board recommends. But it has to be made clear. And if there are risks involved in this political decision, then these risks must also be mitigated. Whether it means extra costs or something else, risk mitigation measures must be foreseen together with the decision. I very much hope that these two years have taught that a plan is actually needed and clear communication has value. The confusion is rather sending a signal that the government does not know what to do itself, and then the hope that someone will follow the government's decisions is perhaps partly unfounded. The result that could be achieved will not be achieved, and in the end it will still mean loss of life and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U251	Thank you very much. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U252	It is sad to say that in [living] an age when the word "discrimination" sounds so often in all possible contexts that it is a misunderstood, abused term. When it really goes to discrimination, it's like the word doesn't apply anymore. In August, one of the most spectacular discrimination projects that has ever been seen here, with others pale, began. Based on false data, half the population was declared to be couples who have been out of the game for six months, who have been unable to exercise their basic civil rights for six months. Elementary! Even during the Soviet years, those who were not under police investigation or in a cell could go to a cafe. But now it's happened that half the population is still struggling somewhere in a remote role. I am pleased that the Minister has started looking for a way out with his partymates. And it seems to me that there's a light at the end of the tunnel. This effort, this fight, if that's what you can say about it, or just a game in a coalition pays off. There's an urgent need to get out. That's enough, that's enough! If you didn't believe the vaccines wouldn't stop the virus from spreading, now there's a lot and a lot of data. You can no longer rely on them either. We have already lodged a complaint on discriminatory restrictions in September. But how long? In the event of a crisis, there must be a rapid response. You can no longer wait this month and wait for the hospitalized [on average 24 hours] 25. Can't wait any longer! No way! Pull yourself together and convince your coalition partner who's ready to keep us in a cage until spring. That's enough, that's enough! Today we handed over a draft decision of the Riigikogu to allow the government to propose the final removal of restrictions. It's the back time. It's back time! In the crisis, we cannot stall, we cannot expect new tables if we have been holding these tables for months. For months we've seen right next door. Think of your own party partner, the mayor of Rakvere Triin Vareku. He himself posted these things and said that I was safe and didn't get sick. But when he got sick, he said I was safe and I wouldn't get sick. But he got seriously ill. Then he thought the worst was over, let's give him another shot. And then he got sick a second time. The government was incapacitated. The city government was incapacitated, they couldn't get the quorum together, all the vaccinateds carried the virus out. That's enough, that's enough! The data's on the table. You can't fool yourself here. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U253	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U254	So let's hurry. We are in a hurry to reach the train of more dignified countries: Denmark, Lithuania, Great Britain. There's no point in stalling. § 12 of the Constitution is currently so severely hit That's enough, that's enough! Maris Jesse said straight out what the whole passport system was all about. The passport system had a hidden purpose. Maris Jesse has acknowledged that one of the objectives of the corona passport was to motivate people to vaccinate more. The right to use a negative test was also abolished in order to exert pressure on vaccination. That's the point. According to unscientific data, half the population was shut down for six months. According to unscience! But it's never too late to fix your mistakes, never too late. Come on! Tighten up for real treatment, don't ridicule new medications. Do not ridicule those who find that ivermectin is also a medicine. Let's not ridicule the Japanese who use ivermectin. Estonia does not have to be a gold customer of Pfizer, because Pfizer is an unreliable company. He's been punished in the United States with the highest fines in history: $2.3 billion for researching fake drugs and marketing them to the U.S. Army. The U.S. government was angry, and they were really severely punished. Anyone can control, this material is still up on the US Department of Justice page. Do we have to be their gold customer forever? Another positive sign is that the vaccine damage fund was done. Thank God! There are some extremely worrying stories about blood clots. There are some extremely worrying stories of blindness. I believe that the Minister has also heard them and not only heard them, but also seen the statistics of the Agency. So it's a good thing that this step was taken, but we need to be extremely careful about everything that affects the side effects. History has shown that Pfizer and many other large companies are not honest with you! just even though we're reading anything from any of their billboards. And, of course, hospital preparedness, that's what we're always behind. I am intimidated by the military situation in Ukraine. If we had a military crisis, who else could we cure? Field hospitals, yeah. But if today, every once in a while, they say that hospitals aren't capable of anything, our situation is crippled. That's where we need to put the focus, so we can do all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U255	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U256	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who are watching us over the Internet and, of course, all my co-workers who still stay healthy! Information comes all the time. I don't know what it's coming from, but I guess everybody wants to be different. Scientists have formed two different parallel scientific councils, so they're still quietly opting for each other inside, because otherwise they won't ask you. One of the news I heard now, but what I can't find anymore, was that the third time the sick had to be more than 200. I found the news last Friday, which says that the third time in the Corona is 42, the second time 9617. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. The latest news at this point is what we are talking about here, whether we can get rid of [the restrictions], free or not. Researchers predict an increase in hospital load and the imminent loss of the corona passport appears to be less and less likely. So today is the seventh day, from today until 17. [February] the [day] average number of people hospitalised due to COVID must not exceed 25. Now this fresh news here says, again new and beautiful and good people, Delfis is written like this, the two editors have made it, and it's come from 17.11 to actually old news. We wanted to get information from the minister. Well, I got the impression that it's like my good old late comrade Madis Milling said, "What's this acting, politely saying, you come in from the right, do your own inner bullshit, and then you pull left." We looked at the questions, we got a lot of information, but nothing about [essential]. People, let's be honest, we who are in this information right now don't understand anything, but we have to answer. We have to choose our own words here, because we're being sent this fucking bastard, which he was now, a fact check: where are the facts? But our contractor comes and speaks a lot about nothing. Is it my question that, from this day on, either this counting starts or I don't begin to get a lot of other things to say in response to what we started to say about freedom? I'm also saying that I'm three times, we're like ex-anonymous vaccine addicts here, aren't we? [vaccine], I'm the freshest [dose]. Immunisation certificate [is available]. That means I should be Ironman by now, Iron Man. I promised that six times I could vaccinate it against COVID, but that's the seventh time I'm probably gonna be reluctant, even though I'm trying to be law-abiding. We're not talking about this information for the first time. I would remind you that on April 27 or 28, 2020, the news came that the Health Board recruited four new people with the knowledge of PR, or public relations, and the reason why it was written was that they received a much higher salary than our new people's hero, Arkad Popov. When we talked about this in autumn 2020, the minister remained babbling and said that he couldn't do anything, it was the decision of the Health Board. Now the time has passed, but we're still on to the exact same thing. There are very simple requirements for communication, especially in a crisis situation: the message must be short, simple and understandable for everyone. Perhaps it is a mistake that we have read too many of these legal texts here and the rest of the Estonian people understand well both the golden seniors and the more agile younger and, of course, the average people with average knowledge and mediocre expectations. But somehow we can't get here. Is there a problem with us? I admit that's the problem with us. But what I'm saying is, we have to play and work with the information we've been given. There's a lot of information from the characters, but the contents are missing. Maybe we could still turn this way so that the information is clear and simple for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U257	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U258	Thank you. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U259	Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U260	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! I have to repeat myself again in today's speech, to say what I've already said today from this remote control. But there's nothing to do, because here's the situation. We have a health crisis and people are sick, infected, suffering. But it's a köki-möki compared to what kind of health crisis our government is experiencing. Our government is left with the kind of disease called lying. That's right, Mr. Minister! Lying in this hall, lying to the people, being dimmed, getting bubbles out of their mouths, which does not correspond to the reality of the situation at all. And the obvious example that you wouldn't say that I'm gonna come up with something again is that I repeat myself how Maris Lauri came here as Minister of Justice and Helle-Moonika Helme exposed him to lying. Today's inquiry into Mali revealed another liar, Secretary of Defense Kalle Laaneti, who doesn't know that there are Russian [units] in Mali long ago. I was hoping to keep it that way today. Where are you going with that? Our Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, will be here to answer questions. What does it say? He's lying again! Well, what an infectious disease is that lying disease that's in the government right now. All right, let's get down to business. Today, I asked the honourable Tanel a specific question about the COVID-19 vaccine produced by Pfizer: what is the absolute risk and its reduction? I brought out the numbers. Tanel Kiik said nothing about the absolute risk, but about the effectiveness of the vaccines. These are two different things, Minister. How do you, as a minister, do you not know what the absolute risk is and talk about efficiency instead? Another lie that came out: you argued that there was a clear correlation between the level of vaccination and those infected and those hospitalised in European countries and elsewhere in the world. This sentence too, Mr Swing, is wrong again. Taking into account examples from other countries, you yourself did not mention any, so I myself will bring out one country, Israel. By the way, Israel is one of the highest vaccinated countries. But Israel has now admitted that vaccines do not work as expected, and hospitals are full of vaccinees. So either the absolute risk or the effectiveness that you have thrown out here for members of the Riigikogu are actually not valid. It's missing. But I'm gonna go to some details. In September, Pfizer made a study of the COVID-19 vaccine, because it is known that the most convenient way to analyse and make treatment decisions for the medicinal product is, by the way, the vaccine is also a medicine, and it aims to reduce the absolute risk, which is also called the risk difference. This same analysis of Pfizer showed that some subjects were injected with COVID-19 vaccine and some with placebo. Placebo is the kind of thing that's a salt solution that doesn't protect people. The risk of disease was 0.04% in the vaccine population and 0.88% in the placebo group. And now, summing up these two numbers, the absolute risk for the experimenters was reduced by 0.84%. In order to explain it now to rural languages, I will give a very simple example. About 7.7% of the Estonian population experienced influenza during the flu season from 2018 to 2019. 7.7%, and our society was all open, no facilities were closed, everyone went to work, everyone went to school, those who got sick, they were treated, those who didn't make it at home were taken to the hospital. And the hospitals held it together. Remember? I do. However, the 6 month safety and efficacy analysis of Pfizer in the placebo group affected 0.88%. This is less than 1% compared to influenza. Mr. Swing, you understand, less than 1%! What kind of closure of the damned society we are talking about if we have a prior example that society works even if we have even 7.7% of the affected. The following sentence, which you said, is that any new strains are coming, and so on, the scientists you love have said that any new strains of the corona virus will come if we do not only measure disease by PCR test, but also take into account the presence of symptoms, i.e. symptoms, it is unlikely that the absolute risk will increase by more than 0.88% of influenza. And when new strains come, we have most people vaccinated, so the absolute risk can't rise. All in all, the closure of society is absolute nonsense. And also, today, the reputable Tanel Kiki was again present at ELAK, and I invited him to an international conference on COVID that will take place shortly. And you know what Tanel swing said? In case it doesn't match my understanding, I won't be there. Consequently, we cannot create a debate, a debate, but we must monitor the ravings of a diseased government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U261	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U262	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, Undoubtedly, the health crisis is one of the serious crises facing our country today. Soon it will be two years when it has been in our country, and we have had to fight it. On 7 December, colleagues submitted an inquiry into this Riigikogu and indeed, like a tie, only two months in crisis conditions, and this is already an inquiry here in Riigikogu for discussion. Now aside from the irony, it is perhaps appropriate that the Minister takes time to come here to the Riigikogu, tries to set up his agenda and does not really come for another two months. But in a crisis situation where we are, especially when we look at the tensions that have been scrolling and scrolling in society, this attitude is, in fact, extremely bad. I guess it reflects a little bit about all the government's actions that have sent us to manage this crisis. When I said this sarcasticly on my question, that the idea of managing the crisis and dealing with the problems is like an invitation to "come to us yesterday, take tomorrow's paper," but it is often so absurd. Indeed, I understand this situation where the hospital workforce is in decline and consent is given to come to work sick, because really, treating other diseases is no less important than treating COVID. But I don't understand it at all, and I absolutely don't understand it when people say that we shouldn't eliminate or exclude COVID passports. Even if the person with the second illness goes to the hospital and stays in the COVID, even on this condition, it is considered reasonable to have this passport. Indeed, information from the press also went through that it was suggested that the PCR tests should be dropped and it was said that indeed, if you have become ill and you have taken a quick test, then contact your family doctor, he will note that you are really ill. Let's reduce the burden on health care. Very reasonable! But then they put a final sentence in it: it doesn't give you any right to a COVID passport. Doesn't that sound weird?! I mean, it feels weird and embarrassing, really, when it's handled like this. This list could continue indefinitely. In this context, one could say that our government is a master in finding illogical solutions. But he is not a master in making agreements, and he has certainly not been a master in managing this crisis either. That's very, very sad. It's too bad they don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U263	Thank you very much. Here the Riigikogu ambassadors do not express any further wish to speak. Would the minister like some? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U264	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Yes, you can talk in the Chamber, you can talk, you can talk, as this evening has shown, bullshit. I still have some things to correct. I see that one of the major speakers has not considered it necessary to remain in place until the end, but nevertheless, since we are also being followed by some of the people of Estonia, I will correct some of the arguments. One was the debate on what is an absolute risk and what is efficiency. When you read the minutes, you will see that Mr Kalle Grünthal's question was both mentioned. He asked me why they're talking about 95% efficiency, and I explained why they're talking about it. Compared to absolute efficacy rates of 0.88% and 0.04%, then yes, one can conclude that you see the difference is only 0.84%, and thereby mislead the public. A logical, relative comparison can also be made and a risk difference of 22 can be seen. This is exactly the difference between 0.88% and 0.04%. So this is the place of choice, whether we're talking about 0.84% of the difference in risk, or we're talking about 22 times the difference in risk. The same study that Mr Grünthal referred to strongly supports, for example, the calculations made by Professor Fischer on how vaccines help. The second argument, which sounded forceful, is that we should not exclude any medication here. No, we don't miss drugs that have been authorised accordingly. But if the manufacturer of a particular medicine itself says that it is not a COVID-19 medicine, I really am not going to tell Estonian health care professionals that you do not know that it is a COVID-19 medicine, but we have another information and we recommend that you start using it. Of course I won't, never. The third thing about the comparison that has been made here about Europe. Well, I made a comparison about Europe, and then a comparison was made about Israel, and there was talk of mortality. In the European Union today, the countries with the highest mortality rates are also the countries with the lowest vaccination rates. Check it out. Unfortunately, it is the countries with problems with the coverage of the population, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia and so on. A dozen European Union countries with higher mortality rates, European countries at all, are all those whose vaccination coverage has been below the European average. On the contrary, when we look at those who have done better, especially the Nordic countries and also Malta and Cyprus, and where there is a lower proportion, we can see that there is also a very high level of coverage of vaccination for all of them. These are the facts, this is not my opinion, this is not Tanel Kiige's position, these numbers are the facts that these countries themselves have reported. Okay. A comparison was made with Israel. Israel, of course, did not mention the mortality rate of Kalle Grünthal, but the mortality rate of Israel is about twice that of the European Union average. Twice as low! And he is considerably lower than in the countries I mentioned earlier. The difference is sometimes four or five times that of those countries where vaccination coverage is several times lower than that of Israel. So to state, in the example of Israel, that vaccination does not work the other way around; in the example of Israel, it can be shown that vaccines work. Israel's mortality rate is also lower than that of Estonia, for example. It is higher than in the Nordic countries, where there is even greater coverage of vaccination, but [Israel] is clearly in a better position than most countries in the European Union. In Estonia, too, the mortality rate is in the back third when we look at the European Union. Israel's is even lower. So all the claims that were made here, about which it was somehow arbitrary and arbitrary to say that Tanel Kiik was lying, were not really any false claims, but there was a bunch of rhetoric, demagogy and false facts that were shouted out of this Parliament to the whole people. Extremely irresponsible behavior. I'm sorry Mr. Grünthal didn't bother to listen to this. I listened to what he said, with great interest as usual, and I really thought it was necessary to correct those false claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U265	Thank you. That concludes this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U266	It is now possible to speak in a free microphone. That's what you want. Please, Aivar Chef! No? Hah, good one! The sitting is adjourned. [[There are angry voices in the hall.]] What? [[Someone's talking about the hall.]] Oi-oi-oi! Then it happened... [[Someone's talking about the hall.]] No, but they passed out for a while. I'm sorry! Come on, come on, come on! We are not restricting freedom of expression here! Let's put Aivar Coke back on. I thought you were joking, putting it on for a while and then taking it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U267	Good manager! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk a little bit more about vaccination and congratulations on how we're doing well. I recall last spring, against Midsummer Day. If people wanted to vaccinate, they couldn't actually vaccinate. There was a first chance before Midsummer, when everyone could go and get a vaccine. They sent people back to Lasnamägi. They used their friends to take vaccinations. And it didn't take several months for the Estonian state to give vaccines, perhaps the minister remembers, I don't remember either Africa or other countries. Hundreds and hundreds, thousands and thousands. Maybe there were vaccines that killed him. The situation was exactly the same in December last year. If the six months were two days short, those people were thrown out of the Vabaduse Square vaccination room with a small, easy grudge. Fortunately, at that point, a man dared to be so angry that he wrote to all possible places from Delfi to the Ministry. Then, the next morning, the decision was reversed. Right before Christmas, people wanted to go for a third dose, and our government forbade us. It was only when the press came to the aid that a decision was made. As the first item on the agenda today, we discussed exactly the same thing: if people were going to ask for help in order to receive electricity, heating and gas support, it would have been possible to take the money away from the debtors. [All] when a loud vote is made through the press, the decision can be made. It's gonna take days, but it's gonna happen. Now let's talk a little bit about covering energy costs. It's the biggest anecdote I've ever heard and seen. Those people who have been keeping their energy costs fixed for ten years, such as electricity, will not be compensated for a single cent today, because the state decided that there would be a ceiling for 120 [euro] megawatt-hours with cupcakes. This is the ceiling for most fixed electricity contracts, and [it concerns] those people who have been conservative for ten years. And now everyone on the stock market gets compensated. If [the price is] as it was last weekend, I read in the paper that 70 euros per megawatt-hour, they win. Now the next situation is when companies pay a crazy price for gas. The price of gas has risen many times, and the government, the government, decides that you will be compensated for so much electricity and this amount of gas. But maybe I don't want to spend electricity at all. I don't want a penny of electricity compensation either. I'm not gonna get a penny anyway. But I'd like to get the whole volume for the gas. How is this equal treatment? If I live in an apartment building, the heat is paid for 100% compensation for the total volume. If I live in an individual house and I have local heating, I think that in the case of gas, 270 megawatt-hours will be paid out all the way, but there's no compensation for the rest of them. This difference is some euro [compared to that] which today is the stock market price. We have been talking for years, and now the European Union has decided that gas is renewable, clean, green, anything can be done. How long are we gonna torture our people, how much are we gonna bully them? 400000 people were to receive support. 40,000 have gone to ask for help. They're ashamed to go, they want to take care of themselves. Give them a chance. And the worst part is that Estonia has its own gas power plant, capacity 300 megawatt-hours, in Elering's hands. It should have been handed over to Eesti Energia immediately, and it would have been used during peak load, rather than should have paid 1000 [EUR] for megawatt-hours of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U268	Let me remind you that there are exactly five minutes of free microphone time and no more time. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! [[Aivar Kokk comments.]] Can't give, can't give, that's life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U269	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who are watching us over the Internet! I have to say, our lives here are interesting. We are dealing with extremely interesting solutions, and these solutions, of course, are coming to us more recently than Europe. On 28 January we had a debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs: Estonia's views, some big directive on the welfare of animals. It's all clear. The introduction says that Europe has turned to us to ban cages, cages of all kinds. We couldn't ask so much there, because officials would be in a very embarrassing situation, but would that mean that the cages as such would be lost in the zoo as well? No one asked them anything. The situation became interesting when it was said that we had quite a lot of poultry farmers, or chicken farmers, made investments in order for chickens to have a straw on which to sit, and now Europe wants to lose this cage around it. No, this is not a stand-up here, it is a free microphone of the Riigikogu, where we are talking about our own situation where we have to make decisions. It turns out that, unnoticed, simply by combining terms and concepts, chickens have become animals at this point. I once asked here that we have aquatic animals and aquaculture animals and that they are not really fish yet. The first quick idea I made for all chicken farmers in the Committee on European Union Affairs is this: as we know, sex is a social construction, so let's call all chickens roosters. And then, when officials from Europe come to us, we tell them that we have fight cupcakes here that we are now rehabilitating and socializing to enter the ordinary society. In the meantime, [the cage] protects the cock from violent people or vice versa. And, gentlemen of the European Commission, you should understand that a rooster does not lay eggs. Now, if we get more general that birds are already animals, then we can't really exclude reptiles. Reptiles come out of the egg, and so do insects. Insects, nerd skins, have somehow remained this way in development, but the differences and all these other things are actually enriching our situation. So we get there, we just have flora and fauna. We're a fauna here, too. We're the crown of nature. But from where do we draw this brutal line that it's a flora and it's a fauna. The only feature that is: some have limited freedom of movement and others are able to position themselves in a completely different situation. So we should consider those who are unable to position themselves somewhere else, I mean plants, right, because the roots are in the ground and the roots are the root of all this evil. We have to assume that their lives are difficult and equalize everyone, including that part of the fauna, that it is part of the flora that actually leads us to the thought development that the product of chickens is the flower of a flora with reduced mobility. As a result, the egg is the result of something, and just as children are the flowers of life, the eggs are actually the flowers. But it's empty. This is a debate that is going nowhere. However, it is important that we talk about animal welfare. But there hasn't been any SWOT analysis among animals, no question about how they see this bill. Also, there is no "programming'. That is why the Riigikogu ambassador must have these floweres of the flora with reduced mobility to say: listen, stop it, the rooster is the rooster and the chicken is the chicken and the rooster and the chicken is not the animals. Then come to your senses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U270	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U271	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Estonian people! Nature needs to be protected. I hope there is no doubt about it either inside or outside this room. But the way it's done makes me wonder, to put it mildly. On 4 February, we learned that it is now prohibited in Natura sites where forest management was permitted in the restricted zone. According to the Director-General of the Environmental Board, in 90% of cases, this ban remains open-ended. The ban concerns more than 42000 hectares of forest land, 12700 hectares of which are located in private forests. The backbone of the Estonian state is private property. It is not for nothing that the principle that everyone's property is untouchable and equally protected is written into our constitution. This principle has been decided to throw into the trash bin and to act as the June Communists did in the forties of the last century, who voluntarily forced landowners to give their lands for a prosperous future to the kolhoos. Nationalisation is now taking place without even bothering to negotiate with representatives of forest owners. This is despite the fact that the European Commission has provided guidelines for the definition of Natura sites, that stakeholders, especially landowners, must be negotiated, that each case must be assessed individually and that Natura area does not mean the end of forest management. Today's rulers are no longer so enthusiastic about compensating for restrictions. They say there's a need to make amends, and hopefully we won't run out of money. The principle that old debts will be liquidated before new restrictions are imposed on private countries has been waived. So far, unfortunately, this has not happened and there has not been enough money to compensate for it fairly. Since 2007, the compensation for restrictions has remained at the same level and is two and a half times lower than for our southern neighbours. For those forest owners who wish to sell their land to the State, half the market price is offered on the right hand. I have repeatedly referred to this problem. Hands will be extended, and the owner of the forest will not sell. If this isn't nationalism, then what is it? This decision, which was made last week, is not only destructive but also equally destructive to nature conservation. All parties know that such decisions have an extremely negative impact on nature and nature. This decision clearly tells the landowner: If you do not want your land to be nationalized, do not allow any significant natural features to appear on your land, cut as soon as possible and as much as possible. On the one hand, it is exceptionally unethical to put people in such a position, on the other hand it has an exceptionally bad impact on nature conservation and our nature. All parties know it, all parties take a negative view of it, but it does not shake today's rulers from taking such a decision. No legal logging has such a negative impact on nature and nature as the nationalisation of land in quotes for the benefit of nature and nature. Nature conservation is a public good and society as a whole must take part in it in solidarity. Putting an obligation only on forest owners who help to maintain rural life is contrary to the Constitution. When establishing protection rules in Natura sites, it has been confirmed to date that they are based on in-depth analysis. Consequently, I have a question: who is lying? Did those who made the protection rules at the time and, figuratively speaking, looked behind every grasshopper, count every insect and mutant, and carefully weigh it all, or did those who prepared today's decision and put it into practice? Or is it just a criminal disregard for our people and nature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-07_U272	Thank you. Now I don't see any more free mike requests, and I can close the hearing for the second time. The sitting is adjourned.
