ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 13th working week of the VII plenary session. And now it's possible to hand over drafts and inquiries. Please! You don't see that wish. Then we'll conduct a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U2	Currently 64 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U3	We are going to the review of today's agenda. The first item is the number 540 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to withdraw the signature of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation signed on 18.02.2014." We have a first reading, and there will be a final vote at the end of it. The procedure for processing this draft at first reading is as follows: The author of the bill shall have up to 20 minutes for the presentation, up to 20 minutes for the commission. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups and committees will take the floor during the negotiations. Then we will examine the amendments, but they do not exist for this draft. Then we will have a final vote. We will begin the examination of this bill and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It is good to see you so fresh after yesterday's long day, so I believe that we have the strength and the strength to continue vigorously and possibly not briefly today. Right now we're at 540 O.E. Good people, I must say that this is an extremely important draft, although it is OE and we know that in the parliamentary toolbox it is one of the easiest tools, but not less influential. This is an exceptionally symbolic draft, and I urge you to take this symbolism into account. As Mrs Helme said yesterday in the media, we are not even talking about this draft from a legal point of view, but precisely from a symbolic point of view. We're working on the signs, too. It's very symbolic, by the way, in many other ways. First of all, when we presented this draft, when the National Conservatories presented it on 23 February, it was already symbolic. This was presented on the day when Russia began very aggressively the war to continue in Ukraine. This is symbolic, because with this draft we are addressing a very important issue: it is the waiver of the Republic of Estonia from the signature of the Estonian-Russian Peace Treaty signed in 2014. This is a decoupling from the treaty signed in 2014, when Russia began the war in Ukraine. The importance of symbols must never be underestimated. Jüri Raidla, who was the Minister of Justice, said in 2021 that the first lesson we have learned in history in the creation of the Republic of Estonia, I stress, the first lesson is that symbols and symbolic behaviour have the utmost importance in the story of statehood. He pointed out that we often underestimate symbols. When I initiated this draft on 23 February 2022, I said here on the remote why it is important to do this right now: because this moment is at hand. In the history of our Estonian country, important things have been born very often only when the moment is right. And you have to take advantage of it, otherwise there may not be or will be such an opportunity later. This is particularly important at the moment because, as I referred to earlier, several times to these aggressions, when Adolf Hitler dropped the hatchet 77 years ago, a comrade named Putin has picked it up. And we need to do the maximum we can now to give this comrade a signal that everything he does in his imperialist politics is judgmental and none of them can have lasting consequences. However, this 2014 agreement is by its very nature nothing more than a capitulant act. In order to understand the importance of our step, perhaps we need to go back a little bit. We have things that we may not have to give out full sentences or read long tracts. It's like we remember a fairy tale from childhood: when they say red hat and wolf, we know what we're talking about. In this case, with regard to history, why do we have such a treaty, we could also talk about certain keywords that are actually sufficient to understand where we have come from, why we have come to, and what we want to change. Still, in today's act, indeed, good dear companions, the narcissists and grains are separated. Those who support this draft support the fact that aggression receives a very strong counter signal and sends a signal to the international community, to its people, to its country. Those who do not support it give the opposite sign. They say we want the status quo to be maintained and aggression to continue vigorously. This is the place. But I was talking about the basis for this bill in the past. Yeah, we need to talk about the War of Independence, that name itself already tells us everything, we understand that. We need to talk about the Republic of Estonia, we need to talk about the restoration of independence in 1991, and what is very important, of course, we need to talk about the constitution that was adopted in 1992. It is quite important to understand the content and the meaning of these matters, the rules that are set out there, are important for today's draft. In particular, I am referring to § 2, § 122, § 54. Paragraph 122 is A and O. When the Constitution was adopted in 1992, the Republic of Estonia was restored on the basis of legitimacy, it was restored within its original limits as it was in 1940. Naturally, the political winds led to this and there was a need to make these things legally correct, so that no one would have any doubt. We had given our message, and the whole world recognised the Republic of Estonia within its legal limits in 1992, as it was in 1940, as we wrote in the Constitution, which was based on the peace of Tartu. What happened next? There was such a story that, looking back at the emergence of § 122, we know that the disputes on the border issue were extremely heated and extremely deep in the Constitutional Assembly. This was a good example of how, in fact, a collegial idea can produce an extremely strong and powerful result even in the case of exodus. Despite the contradictions, the right result was achieved. However, in 1994 this situation arose that the then Prime Minister Andres Tarand made a statement in Helsinki, where he announced unexpectedly not only to the Estonian people but also to the international community of the world that Estonia did not care about its borders. As Prime Minister, Andres Tarand announced that he was prepared to compromise with Russia and to abandon Ingerimaa and Petserimaa. It's not a subject, it doesn't matter. It was a shock back then. It was a porridge that was boiled together, and which we are actually grinding up to this day and cannot be eaten. It's a very heavy and poisonous porridge. Later, Tarand was asked what kind of solo was born or where he came from. In 2002, he gave an interview to Toomas Sildam. Toomas Sildam asked how it happened then that you drove to Helsinki as the so-called Prime Minister of the Government of the Christmas Peace in December 1994 and withdrew from the Tartu Peace Treaty there, said that Estonia was prepared to waive the requirement for Petserimaa and the areas behind Narva. On top of which Tarand replied that the right is one thing in this world, but there is also physics. Things are as they are. Of course, the War of Independence was a military victory for Estonians, but General Laidoner calculated the border for Estonia by choosing the border. The gun's firing range. Estonia has used its historical chance of a historical chance! Petserimaa is, as it is, and the border of Tartu peace, it is romance. Let's see why. It was then a solo of its own, where Prime Minister Andres Tarand squeezed toothpaste out of the tube, and it is extremely difficult and difficult to shove it in a reasonable way. Well, here we are. But that, of course, was not the end of it. Naturally, the Estonian authorities and Estonia had to take some kind of position at that time and the position was taken very clearly to support Andres Tarand's solo. Of course, later, when we look later at the discussions of the Constitutional Assembly, we will see that Andres Tarand was one of those who opposed the writing of the Tartu Peace in the Constitution, so that these foundations also come from there. But, well, we know that a delegation to the Estonian-Russian border treaty between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation was formed on 9 January 1996 and the border agreements were initialled on 5 March 1999. It followed that on May 18, 2005, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and Sergei Lavrov signed a border treaty in Moscow. The Riigikogu ratified it on 20 June 2005. But yes, a reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty was added to the preamble to the ratification law, which was in itself a legitimate step, but nevertheless it upset Russia. And on 6 September 2005, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented a note to the Estonian Charity, in which he announced the withdrawal of the Russian signature from the border agreement with Estonia. And with that, it essentially stopped being a negotiation, some kind of half-party like they were, they didn't take anywhere. But that was not the end of the procedure, of course not. Since the course taken at the time for the gift of Ingerimaa and Petseri County to Russia had been chosen as the main course, although a very large part of the public opposed it, the procedure continued and, as the people called it, it was born, the Paeda-Mihkelson Act, which was resigned in 2014. Again! On 18 February 2014, the Estonian and Russian Foreign Minister re-signed the border agreement. The act was reborn. However, as always with such agreements, they will not enter into force until they are ratified in Parliament. We know that. And we know that now years have passed, eight years have passed, it has not been ratified, but there is a treaty. The contract is totally in place, it stays. This border agreement is exactly what the coalition partner of the Reform Party recently had. After all, the Central Party had a cooperation agreement with the Putin Party, which was frozen, just as it did not exist. They said don't pay attention. But the social pressure is so strong, and the lawyers finally made it so clear that the Centre Party had no choice but to finally admit that yes, this signature had to be withdrawn. And indeed, the Centre Party has withdrawn this signature. But today we're in the same situation as another coalition partner. They keep the status quo, keep the border agreement signed, because maybe it might be necessary. True, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs we discussed this and then it was stressed that yes, the signature is below, but we have not ratified the [Treaty] and we do not see that we are able to ratify it. We can't see. We can't see today. I'll see you tomorrow. See you the day after tomorrow. As the Eerik-Niles Kross in the Commission said very honestly and perhaps even heartwarmingly, that he understands very well, he understands what we want to achieve. But you can't do that. We're going to upset Russia with this. So there we are, talking capitulantly about the situation. But then it came about, as I said, when the border treaty was signed, society reacted painfully, and quite noticeably. Countless have been the number of times when various signatures, petitions were collected, written, spoken to Members of Parliament, discussed in newspapers, on television, on radio, its negative impact was assessed. Some [sees] in this certainly also have a positive effect on course. An example of a positive impact is that a strong border agreement is an argument in the eyes of Russia, a neighbour, it can defend, it strengthens our independence, because there must be an agreement between the two countries. We don't have a contract. These are the arguments on which they were based. We know it's actually wrong. All those who say that we do not have a border agreement with Russia are contradicting the current constitution. We have a border agreement with Russia, which is enshrined in the Constitution, based on the Tartu Peace Treaty. And when it comes to the strength of this border treaty, we do not need to look back much in the past to understand the emptiness of those words. Whether in 2008 Georgia, 2014 Crimea, 2022 Ukraine of course. And let us not forget that there were border agreements with Ukraine in Russia. Russia had border agreements. Russia had given a guarantee of the territorial integrity of Ukraine, and it now provides this guarantee with bombs and missiles, raping women, killing children, breaking infrastructure. So speaking of any fortress in these contracts is a fool, if not foolishness. When the signing of the border treaty took place in the Constitution, discussions took place in the Constitutional Assembly. As I said earlier, it is very important to understand the meaning of § 122. Some people seriously argue that the conclusion of a border agreement at this point is a change of constitution and must not be done. Their argument is true. What do the respondents rely on? They rely, of course, on a very large number of strong emotions argument, which is also true: in a situation where we are signing a new border agreement with Russia, indirectly changing the Constitution, but actually directly, we are reviving the results of the war on freedom. We literally spit on the pain and blood that our ancestors wore in the war of freedom. We are giving an unwarranted gift to aggressive Russia. We make a statement of support that aggressive behavior and war are the right and only possible way to reasonably increase our empire. If we conclude a border agreement with Russia, if we ratify it when it comes into force, we will say simple words: indeed, war is good, we will take away a piece of land from the enemy or our opponent or our competitor. Yeah, they whine, they use a certain economic repression against us, we suffer 10, 20, 50 years, but still they come to us after, hat in hand, ask for alms and give us this land. This is a mockery of the victims that Georgia has suffered, not to mention, of course, the victims that Ukraine carries. [I will] return again to § 122, which is in the Constitution. It is very common to have such an opinion, and it is, of course, deliberately distributed, that the Constitutional Assembly has confirmed with its discussions, just as if we could conclude a border agreement with Russia without amending the Constitution. I have thoroughly analysed the texts on what the Constitutional Assembly has discussed and how it has discussed, and I say to you: this is not true. The last and important discussion was on the adoption of § 122. That was the question then (President: "Time!") I'm gonna finish right now, whether it's possible to negotiate. Can a person [not in violation of the Constitution] be essentially a criminal, or is that not possible? But that, without changing the constitution, it would be possible to ratify the border treaty, certainly will not come out of it, and there is written evidence of it. But, dear people, ladies and gentlemen! Let's do this step! By the way, today, 3 May... (The President: "Mr. Woodland! ") All right... Let us be good friends, and let us support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U5	There is certainly still room for answers in the course of the questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U6	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Of course it would be good to hear today, May 3rd, which was, but I have two questions. First of all, I don't understand this panicky need to sign a contract with an aggressor. My question to you is where the reference to the peace of Tartu added by the Riigikogu to this agreement disappeared. It's as if it's gone from there in the silence of the ministry by witchcraft. Have you found out who or what removed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U7	Thank you, my good colleague. I take advantage of the opportunity [and say] that on 3 May it was not what was born, but rather who was who. On 3 May 553 years ago Machiavelli was born. And Machiavell's one very famous theorem or quote he has put forward is the same famous saying that we are not interested in maintaining the status quo, we will dismantle it. I mean, today's the day. Since it is Machiavell's birthday today, I wanted to use it: not to maintain the status quo for this contract. But in answer to your question, where have those words gone, the sentences: I imagine they're back there. See, that's where Marko sits, friend, colleague. Maybe in his pocket. Maybe in his desk drawer. That's where you could find the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U8	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U9	Good manager! Dear waitress, I'm a little confused. When Foreign Minister Paet signed this agreement with my colleague Lavrov on 18 February, a week later the events of Ukraine began: Crimea and so on. And now that Mr Mihkelson met on 7 February with Mr Slutsk and other colleagues in the Russian Parliament who wanted to ratify the same border agreement, two and a half weeks went by and a new wave began in Ukraine. My question is, what's going on? Don't the respected politicians of the Reform Party know what the partners are planning right now? They kind of enter into a contract, and a week later begins the first invasion or this first... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U10	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U11	Thank you, my good colleague. Really, it's very difficult to see it exactly, but I can't rule out because I don't have enough information that there may be very direct connections here that this is the case. As I said, as one party in its day had a cooperation agreement with the Putin Party, another coalition partner may have agreements that we do not know. In any case, as I said, it was very clear in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that they were afraid: we must not withdraw this signature because we are irritating with it. Irritating who? Maybe a partner. So there may be connections, but I can't confirm it. Marko may also come here to talk, maybe he'll explain in more detail how strong these connections are. There may be a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U12	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U13	Good Paul, I'd give you a chance to refresh your memory. I certainly have not said anything in the Commission that Russia must not be irritated. I've been pissing him off for a long time. In my opinion, perhaps I am wrong about the attitude of the rest of the Commission rather than the fact that we cannot make a legally pointless proposal. There is no procedure such as the withdrawal of a signature in Estonian law or international law, and we cannot give the Government of the Republic an impossible task.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U14	To consider this as a question of whether or not this procedure exists first, as I replied to the Commission, I also note this, perhaps because of the refreshing of memory, I said that international law must behave as your partner does. Our partner has come this way. I would like to remind you once again that on 6 September 2005, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented a note to the Estonian Charity, which informed him of the withdrawal of the signature from the border agreement with Estonia. This is a very concrete step. Estonia has recognised it, recognised it and concluded a new agreement after that. So he's embraced this step. I would, of course, also like to point out that I am not quite sure, I do not know exactly what Russia's relations with the Vienna Convention are. And I am absolutely not sure that the Vienna Convention does not allow these steps. If reference is made to the fact that the Vienna Convention does not contain the corresponding tools, I have met very different standards when looking at the Vienna Convention, which, in fact, would provide an opportunity. Well, that actually depends a little bit on interpretation. I refer both to the guidelines of § 11, Articles 65, 67, 68 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. So that's where I can see the odds. Finally, I stress once again that if you cannot solve this problem yourself, ask your partners from Russia. They know exactly how to do it, they know how to use it. And the same [of course] in the case of the VäSS, I mean the law of external communication, I actually see those possibilities there. Once again, I think it is more of a matter of political will and attitude. For, you see, this parliamentary instrument we are using here, this proposal to the Government of the Republic is not that, as the supreme authority of the Riigikogu, the decision is now taken if it still takes.. and we expect the government to respond: "Oh, you have taken the decision, but we will not do it. We can't do that. " We're not waiting for that answer, we're waiting for an answer on how to do it. And there are opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U15	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Paul! In 1945, the Soviet Union was known to occupy four Japanese islands, which Japan calls the Northern Territory, which are essentially four of the southernmost islands of the Kuril archipelago. And so Japan has so far not signed a border treaty or even a peace treaty with Russia and has waited very patiently. How do you assess Japan's position? Has it been right, justified, moral? Is that worthy of an example? What is your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U17	Thanks, Leo! This is a very interesting question in itself, and it can be discussed for a very long time here. Estonia and Japan are in very different situations. In the case of Japan, yes, everything is legally right, in that sense I did not mean international law that these islands were occupied illegally. Russia itself has stated that this is the result of war, it is rewarded and it has just as a legal right to do so, because it won the war. He says that in the case of Japan. As I said, international law does not see it this way. But that's just one side of it. The other side is what has happened to Estonia. The piece from Estonia has been ripped off so that Estonia has not fought with Russia. In 1940 and 1944 the Estonian state did not go to war with Russia. Russia did not take us back, it simply occupied us. And there is no valid critical approach to tearing away pieces from us. It's completely illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U18	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are now in a situation where we are abandoning Russian gas, giving up heating, even extreme alternatives: Russian goods are being thrown completely in trash cans. It is therefore very logical that this signature should also be withdrawn here, as the draft states. But I'd like to get a longer analysis from you, good Paul, because there are some of us who aren't coming to vote today. Maybe some of the actionlinskis will vote 'no'. What might be their motive for acting in this way? Because if there are any gatherings of the people, everyone will beat themselves in the chest: oh, what a patriot of the Republic of Estonia I am! I ask for a more thorough analysis, knowing your skills, why these people behave in a way that they do not vote or vote against.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U20	Thank you, Kalle! As I said, capitulant moods have started to spread in our society a very long time ago. That's one answer. Fear really exists. And as has been repeatedly expressed in very different sources, it is still [recommendation] that let us not upset Russia. What are you gonna do with Petserimaa and Ingerimaa? It's illegal. We've signed the treaty. These motives are very different. But point one, as I said: first of all, fear is unfounded. Secondly, legal bases are all there. Thirdly, as I also said, if Russia, which is similarly effectively bound by the Vienna Convention, has found solutions and we ourselves have recognised these solutions, then there are legal bases for this. And fourthly, for those people who claim that the conclusion of a border treaty does not violate the Constitution, I recommend that you read very accurately the documents of the Constitutional Assembly on § 122, which show how it violates the Constitution. So, in fact, all these arguments are disputable, fears are disputable. And what's the most important thing? The most important thing about this is two nuances. Firstly, not to support aggression in Ukraine, to give a signal to the people and the country and the international community, and another very important point, as I said, is to take advantage of the moment that we now have. If some time goes by, it's possible we won't have that situation again. At present it exists, we [can] demonstrate our straight clarity and honesty.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U21	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U22	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! Yesterday there was a debate about whether or not today's draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. There was also the idea that the Riigikogu should not say anything to the government about the signature of this foreign treaty, because it violates the principle of separation of powers. I've been at the top of politics for a little less than ten years, in the Riigikogu and the government, and something about constitutional law and the functioning of the state I know about. I don't understand how this violates the principle of separation of powers. In yesterday's debate, you said for your part that you also do not understand how this violates the principle of separation of powers, when Parliament, or the legislative body, the head of the government, actually tells the government that we are not going any further with this treaty. All these arguments of some kind of international law, this is not a legal decision, in fact, what we are making, it is clearly a political decision, we are giving the government a political direction. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U23	Thank you, Martin! I mean, this is, on the one hand, a contradiction to which [referred] actually Marko Mihkelson himself yesterday. In his speech, he said that Parliament gave the government a mandate. The mandate of Parliament, of course, is that a mandate can be given and that there can be different movements in the future in relation to this mandate. In fact, he also said that we actually had the right to do so. When we look at the law of foreign communication, there is § 6 and § 8, which provide for the instruments that are legally held by the parties, and there are those instruments. The argument that Parliament, in its legislative role, would violate the principle of separation of powers is completely unfounded. It is simply a political position that is needed to defend its negative attitude towards this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U24	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Paul! We had here last week a draft declaring Russia's activities to be genocide, which was quite unanimous in its approval by the Chamber. This was preceded by the collection of signatures, but this collection of signatures was very poorly carried out. A lot of people, including me, didn't sign it. Then a witch hunt broke out in the press to see where some of Putin's henchmen didn't sign. Now we can see that the hall is practically empty when there is a very clear declaration of solidarity to Ukraine in terms of not recognising or recognising Russia's occupation in our post-Tartu peace areas. This is a very clear expression of solidarity for Ukraine. And those who have run this border agreement, who I probably don't have much doubt about, have sold themselves to the intelligence services of very different countries, have all disappeared from this hall. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U26	Thank you, Mart! That's absolutely right, I agree with you. And more importantly, I say that yesterday in the media I looked at your speech, where you said that this was not so much a legal problem as a political step, and that is absolutely right. That's what she really is. And that means that those who are not here, those who do not support the separation of our bill from the rafters, are certainly clearly going on today. As I have already said: those who do not support the draft support aggression in Ukraine. Those who support the bill are against aggression. This is absolutely clear and clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U27	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U28	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! There is now a situation in which the whole world is discussing how Ukraine could also return to Crimean territory, occupied areas in Donbass, Luhansk. There's analogy, and there is. The only bigger difference is the time difference. The content is the same. The question is, if, just before the war, you go on a platter to offer, to complain that we are going to deliver this border agreement, to hand over this gift, we will give away the moral lever that we have in relation to the aggressor state, the example we set for Ukraine. We remember who listened to the American Voice in the dorm room and in the morning-night heard that the Republic of Estonia was consistent and we will win anyway. That's what we heard, and it inspired us. How, then, do we give Ukraine a fight with this kind of defetism? What do we tell them if we sell it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U29	Thank you, Anti! That's what we say. We say exactly what we would say right now in our border agreement, the new border agreement. Good builders of the Russian Empire! Be patient for 60 years, then we will come and give you the Crimean tray with our own hand. So that's what we're gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U30	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! According to the Russian census, 30,000 people live around Estonia, according to the Tartu Peace Treaty, and just under 20,000 of them live in Petseri County and just over 10,000 in the territory of Estonia beyond Narva. About 5,000 of them are legitimate citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Now, in 1918 [in the manifesto], it was declared to all the peoples of Estonia that the final determination of the Estonian-Russian border should take place by referendum. How can we view this now? Ideally, there could still be a referendum and, of course, only the legal successors of [the] citizens of the Republic of Estonia could vote there. How can we view it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U32	In fact, I am positive, to be brief. But I will return to the activities of the Constitutional Assembly in 1992, when these very heated debates were held on our constitution, how we will rebuild it. After all, the constitution of 1938 was originally used. The Constitution of 1938 did not explicitly mention the Tartu Peace Treaty. However, it was stated that Estonia's territory is an integral whole and that national borders can only be changed in accordance with the procedure for amending the Constitution and by referendum. It was a principle that was originally used as a basis, but later, yes, there was such a journey to change these paragraphs. Ülle Aaskivi, who was Ülle Kiin at the time, has written very interestingly about the amendment of this section and these discussions, it is [appeared] in Juridica Abstract, how they went backwards from the Preambler [starting] until they finally wanted to move the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty into the implementing legislation at all. What was very important here was that practically everything I say was that absolutely all the lawyers had one conclusion that if the Tartu Peace Treaty was to be incorporated into the Constitution, it would cement a situation in which it would not be possible to change the border without changing the Constitution. There was no legal objection to that position. The worst was, in fact, that, well, not the worst, I could say, I don't know, it's a two-way thing, either crazy or worse or positive, that Peet Kask, on the last day of the debate, brought out the problem of why it is bad when the Tartu Peace Treaty is signed into the Constitution. He summed up the whole debate, and it sounded like that. Why is there a reason why the main text of the Constitution is still being sidelined or the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty is being removed? It is not political, but purely legal. Supposedly, if such a text is included in the text of the Constitution, that the Estonian border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty, then it will not be possible to negotiate border issues with Russia until the text of the Constitution has been amended. Before it's changed! State officials who start negotiations, not to mention signing contracts, are wrong about the Constitution and are involved in crime. So that was a summary. More than that. Let me give you another example. On the last day of the vote in the Constitutional Assembly, when discussing § 122, experts, legal experts, had been brought out or arrived and made the last warning. And the opinion of the expert group led by Jüri Raidla was this: The Tartu Peace Treaty between Estonia and Soviet Russia, signed on 2 February 1920, can rightly be considered as a crucial document for Estonia's statehood, and it is understandable to request that the principles contained therein be transferred to the national constitution, but the experts agree that the Tartu Peace Treaty is a valid document and that the negotiations between the Republic of Estonia and Russia must be based on it, including the borders set by this treaty, but we consider it absolutely impossible to define the constitutional boundary of Estonia on the basis of the Tartu Peace Treaty in the Constitution. Why? Again, five different reasons have been identified. I will read out the first reason: if Estonia's borders are cemented constitutionally by the Tartu Peace Treaty, the legal powers to have talks on border issues will be removed from both current and future negotiating parties. Only the right to make ultimative demands is left, and this would be one of the safest guarantees to maintain today's economic borders. So it's the ESSR border. Whoever said these words also said: it was Rein Lang, who was then a representative of the expert committee here in the Riigikogu. And now it was the vote, which was also referred to by Marko Mihkelson. But the Constitutional Assembly voted it differently. The Constitutional Assembly voted on this decision whether or not to introduce the Tartu Peace Treaty. And before voting on this decision, Tõnu Anton asked the people that there would be no doubt: is it really possible to conduct border negotiations or not? The people of the Constitutional Assembly have, after all, understood that now we are no longer talking about legal convergence, but about understanding that it is still possible to negotiate. That we will do so by voting on this expert opinion or on the question whether the Tartu Peace Treaty will be written into the Constitution. And in the event that the Tartu Peace Treaty is signed, we will still allow negotiations, we will not call these persons criminals. That was the point, and that's what they voted for. So Tartu's peace agreement was accepted, and here comes a single conclusion. This position of Anton was not legal, of course, but one clear conclusion must be drawn: it wanted to take away the threat and the threat that those who are going to negotiate would automatically become criminals and violations of the constitution, as all lawyers have said in the past and, as the international law enforcement apparently understands. And that is what gave rise to this understanding, which we have come to, and one of the reasons that really made it possible to negotiate. But I would like to emphasise once again: neither the decisions of the Constitutional Assembly, nor the analysis made, nor this explanation is based on the fact that it is possible to ratify the Treaty with Russia without amending the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U33	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Paul! At the end of the 1990s, when I was the leader of this area at the border guard, when this system was set up and discussed, a justification was given by politicians and lawyers who carried out this task, that we could not celebrate the eastern border without being a contractual border, because at the beginning of the check line, they prohibited even radar positions, towers to be built, everything. And I even got a pretty serious head start for putting the towers up there. It was like a reason. And today, life has shown that everything can be done to the control line, can also be built with fences, and everyone considers that this is the limit, performs the border function. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That's the question. Are those who fail to vote, who accuse us just because we're Russian agents...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U35	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U36	Are those suddenly who fail to vote...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U37	Mr. Breivel, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U38	...aren't unintentional or deliberate agents? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U39	Yeah, well, a good colleague, Anti, asked me that earlier. The question is how to deal with this question, which, in the case of today's draft, will either vote 'no' or 'no' vote 'no' at all. Like I said, I don't dare say the word "agent," because I don't know the legal definition of the word, how to handle it right here. However, if we learn again from Russian politics, we could say yes, they are agents of course. Because everyone who is somehow involved in foreign influences or foreign money, supporting foreign policies against Russia, according to Russia's understanding, is called agents, including legal persons. So you could call them agents. However, in my opinion, the most important thing is that those people who do not support this draft still give a very clear signal to our own people that the results defined in the Constitution and obtained in freedom are not necessary, they need to be reviewed, the Tartu Peace Treaty needs to be amended, the terms of the Tartu Peace Treaty need to be changed, the Constitution needs to be amended and we should still give a gift to Russia within this 5.2% territory. The reasons why they think that may be different since some have fear and some simply want to serve political professionalism. There may be very different reasons. But, yeah, in a way, they're agents, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U40	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U41	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Given that we have declared the activities of Russia in Ukraine a genocide by the Riigikogu, it must also be acknowledged that this is certainly not the first time that the activities of the Russian Federation are directed at the destruction of the peoples of their territory or other territories, of the conquered territories by cultural measures or under the pressure of brutal chauvinist imperialism. And among these peoples there are also the Votes, the Insurers, the Setos, whose historical habitat is largely within Estonia's borders according to the Tartu Peace Treaty. Is the desire to conclude a border agreement that will give to the country that is committing genocide in the historical habitat of these peoples not to contribute to genocide?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U42	Thank you. I could say that it is certainly aiding, but I suspect, without having precise statistical data, that this genocide has already been implemented and that it is possible that the representatives of these indigenous peoples in these territories will no longer exist, or there will be so few, that they will no longer be able to speak of the people. I think this genocide has been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U43	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U44	Thank you. We know that there are border disputes in Russia, territorial disputes with 10 countries in the circa, [for example] with the United States in the Bering Strait and not to mention Japan. And we have stood very well for the territorial integrity of other countries, both in Georgia and in Ukraine. We have strongly condemned the annexation and occupation of Crimea, but at the same time we have forces who wish to give up the areas of the Estonian state that have been annexed in exactly the same way and who today claim that making this declaration, withdrawing the signature, withdrawing it from the border agreement is a provocation. According to this logic, it is also provocation to oppose the Russian aggression, to fight the freedom of Ukrainians for their own state and for the restoration of their territory. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Whose interests are such accusations in provocation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U45	Thank you, Henn! You have the right comment, and I can say that at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs where I was presenting this draft, it was said several times that this is a provocation if we go on with it. So the fear of provocation lies within the political schemes of certain politicians. Unfortunately, that is the case. This is still the beginning: I stress that the root of evil is, in fact, Tarand. Prime Minister Tarand, who squeezed that toothpaste out of the tube. It's very hard to get it back in, almost impossible, as we can see. If the Head of Government had already spoken out such words that we were not interested, and the entire country's machinery has been following this instruction for years, then it is also understandable why it is in the genes of some politicians. They will, of course, defend it to the last drop of blood because they feel that it may be right. But I stress that this is wrong. It's a disgrace, it's capitulant.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U46	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Of course, we are talking about provocation in the event of a withdrawal of the signature from the contract. Today, the Finns are seriously discussing the need to withdraw Finland's signature from the contracts concerning Ahvenamaa and to re-militaryise Åland. That's what they say in Edukunna. But General Budanov, Head of Ukrainian Military Intelligence, gave a religious discussion on the future of Russia. He says Russia can come out of the war in two ways. First of all, he keeps his face, saying that Russia was not the initiator, and accuses some crazy little dwarf who created the war. But he is willing to make territorial concessions. He means occupied Prussia and the Isles of Evil. Or Russia will fall into several pieces. If these signatures continue to stand on our contract, what chances would Estonia have in both scenarios to get these occupied areas back?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U48	Thank you, my good colleague. I myself, one might say, 99.9% convinced that this whole racist campaign, the war in Ukraine, will end with Russia falling apart. I have lived in that conviction, this knowledge, and this faith. It ends with Russia falling apart, I am convinced, living in this knowledge and faith. I also said that in the Commission. It may seem kind of naive, but I've never forgotten how I hoped to see blue black and white in Toompea Tower in the '80s. It happened, and I believe it will happen. As far as the signature is concerned, I have already said here a few times today that the purpose of keeping this signature can only be one. If there is to be another moment, this signed agreement can quickly be brought to the Riigikogu and ratified by Russia. There's no other purpose in this thing. The second option is indeed to put an end to this situation. And what is the only and most important content of our draft decision: the removal of the Republic of Estonia from this agreement once and for all. And, of course, this means that if there really is a legal need to clarify something with Russia, then these conditions will go back to the Constitutional Assembly once again, we have agreed among ourselves, albeit in a legally very dubious way. We have agreed that negotiations can be held. We negotiate on an equal footing, in a reasonable, understandable manner and, if necessary, we ask the people of the people. If necessary, we will change the Constitution as the people, the highest authority, thinks. Then we can move on. But at this point, yes, as I emphasised, this is a capitulant signature and it is essential that we give this signal to the international community, to our people and to the country and to the Republic of Estonia, once and for all, untie this agreement. That is the purpose of our bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U49	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U50	Thank you. Good waitress! Your enthusiasm, of course, is impressive. But when it comes to capitulantism, I have a picture, and it's easy to find, too, how your Chairman Mart Helme is very enthusiastic when signing this capitulant agreement for the first time. I also have imprints of how he is very proud that this capitulant border [is] marked with a fence. He says that it is purely his work, he is the founder of this border, the first one to establish this illegal border. Tell me why he's done it. How do you explain it in the light of what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U51	Thank you very much. I mean, it's still, I could say, false claims or at least misleading. When we are talking about building this fence, it is not the construction of a border, but we are still talking about a control line, the creation of a physical obstacle on the control line, which is our general [need], our country's expectation in this situation, when it has been [had] to wait for a refugee crisis. So this is the step. [[They say something in the hall.]] But no, it is perfectly appropriate, and it is also to be expected, to prevent illegal refugees on this front line, to stop illegal migrants. However, as regards the earlier times referred to, probably in those times when it was perhaps the original campaign to sign this border agreement in 2005 I would say that it was not that Mart Helme liked it, but that it was his duty as an official at the time. It was about the European Union and NATO entry, not about anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing this issue, we each have one question for one rapporteur. This is not a round of negotiations. Let's keep going. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We support Ukraine now, with arms and money, as a country and nation. By helping Ukraine, we support this principle that Crimea and Eastern Ukraine continue to be a part of Ukraine, in spite of everything. I ask again: do these people, Riigikogu ambassadors, who are not voting or voting against today, or do they not support the preservation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia after the Tartu Peace in the current situation, where Russia has violated the Ukrainian principle of territorial integrity since 2014, do they actually support Russia's activities in Ukraine now and hide it by wearing the Ukrainian flag?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U54	Thank you very much, Moonika. You've already formulated that answer by yourself. Indeed, it is the case that those who do not explicitly support today's draft decision do not support the Estonian Constitution either. On the other hand, they support Russia's policy of aggression, Russian policy of imperialism, including the surrender of Crimea, including the surrender of Donbass. As I have said a few times today, it means this: good Russian friends, wait 50, 60, 70 years, let them whine and whine on you, but then the Ukrainians themselves will come and bring you a new border treaty on the tray, where Crimea is no longer, where Donbass no longer exists. Just hold on a second! It's exactly the same thing. Our signal is the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U55	What is your procedural question, Mart Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U56	As far as I know, when someone's name is mentioned, he has a chance of rejoining. And in this case, the rejoinder is that in 1997, when we initialled, rather than signing...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U57	Mr. Helme, this is not a rejoinder place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U58	... a contract to change the line of reference, a contract to change the line of reference! There was no war in Ukraine, and Estonia needed to remove the obstacle to NATO.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U59	This is not a procedural question, Mr Helme! Attention, everyone, please. Now, Mr. Mihkelson and Mr. Helme! [[Mart Helme says something in the hall.]] Mr Helme, you had a procedural question, I will answer you! (Mart Helme says something else.) Mr Helme and everyone else who would like to ask procedural questions! Firstly, once again, the procedure is laid down for the conduct of the sitting. If you had asked whether you were entitled to a rejoinder, I would have answered you: the possibility of a rejoinder is in the negotiations. If a member of the Riigikogu is appointed during the negotiations, it is indeed possible for him to say the rejoinder on the ground, not when someone is mentioned in the course of the questions. Please remember this, please don't anyone abuse this opportunity! I hope that Mr Liigi will not take this opportunity to ask a substantive question or to make a substantive reply to the procedural question here [under the label]. Mr. Ligi, what procedural question do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U60	Mr President, on the contrary, I am not going to say that, in fact, no one is ratifying this Treaty. It's nothing. But the question I have is whether Mart Helme can still negotiate under a procedural question label.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U61	Thank you. I have just answered this question: no one [may] negotiate in the round of questions using the hand sign of a procedural question. Please let us stick to the Rules of Procedure in this regard as well, otherwise our sittings will simply be very long if we start to hold debates, negotiations or something like that under the label of procedural questions. There is a form for this: negotiations, speaking on the ground, rejoinder. These are set out in the Rules of Procedure. Siim Pohlak, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U62	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, It says no one is rushing to ratify this treaty. Mr Ligi, the previous speaker, said. I am now quoting from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Liimets, who, on 14 February right here before the Riigikogu in a foreign policy debate, said, among other things, that we are still ready to move forward with the border agreement, but that also requires the political will of Russia. It's a quote from a verbatim. You have participated in various debates to defend this bill. Have you understood the reason for today's coalition's warm love for this border treaty? Why do they want it so badly? Do they deny that we have 5.2% of Estonia's territory occupied, or do they simply want to give this land away? I'm sure you've been good at these discussions. What views have you heard from coalition politicians [hearing]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U63	Thank you very much, Siim. First of all, I have the clear and clear impression that here the Reform Party is acting in a similar way to the Central Party. They keep it so-called hot from the kettle so that, if there is a suitable moment for them, it will be possible to conclude this agreement with Russia immediately and also bring it to the Riigikogu for ratification. I've got that impression. Otherwise, if this were not the case, there would be no problem for them to support this draft and to leave this agreement once and for all. That's the first question. The second thing is to give an answer to how to say the dialogue that Jürgen Ligi and Mart Helme were holding here, so I would stress that in 1999 the actual date of the initialling of these contracts was March 1999, when Mart Helme was still an ambassador. He was not the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or the Government's decision-maker at all. He had to do exactly what the guidance was then given. And that guideline was very simple. We had a move ahead of us to NATO, we had a move ahead of us to the European Union, and the steps that he took at the time were only linked to the government's guideline so that both NATO and the European Union could be [for us]. Those were the things back then. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U64	No further questions. Thank you! A co-report will be made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Eerik-Niles Kross. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U65	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I should talk a little bit about this rather interesting draft procedure. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft decision twice, on 12 April and 19 April. The substantive debate took place almost only on 12 April. Paul Puustusmaa was present there as a representative of the drafters and told us, on the whole, about what he said about the remote today. Experts were also invited, including Kerli Veski, Director General of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tiina Runthal, Deputy Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Triinu Põdramägi, Legal and Analytical Department. I would not repeat this content debate for a long time, but I note that the position of these legal experts on this draft was such that since neither international practice nor Estonian law knows a procedure such as the withdrawal of a signature from an international agreement, it is difficult to understand what would be the real legal effect of such a decision. The Government of the Republic cannot do what [should] be done according to the draft. Now, here just now, Paul Puustusmaa said an interesting thought. This issue was also discussed here as to whether the signature could be withdrawn or not. The woodland said that international law must behave as the partner behaves. So you can sort of take the [Guide]. Since Putin has said last time that he will withdraw his signature from the border agreement, we should do the same. I don't want to comment very long on what Putin did or didn't do, but legally he didn't actually withdraw his signature because he can't do it either. It was pure national communication, which to a large extent is also this draft today. International law does not have to behave as a partner does when a partner violates international law. International law must behave as required by international law. And this has always been Estonia's position. I think that we should maintain the position that we comply, above all, with our own laws and then also with our international commitments. This is how we defend this norm-based world order, which we are also trying to protect by supporting the Ukrainians here. The content debate on 12 April was relatively long. Apart from the drafters, none of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported this and asked a number of questions as to what this decision would send if adopted. After all, representatives have repeatedly argued that [we will send] a very important signal in support of moral and political Ukraine by adopting a decision requiring the Government or proposing to the Government to withdraw its signature from the signed agreement. I have to admit that, despite the long story of today, I have not yet understood what this signal is and how this signature of our border agreement and its withdrawal or, quite rightly, the impossibility of withdrawing it has to do with the Ukrainian war. I also point out that territorial integrity and legal continuity are two different legal institutions and are not directly linked. In Europe, with Britain, Portugal and some other countries excluded, there is no country with exactly the same borders as in 1939. But I don't want to get into a long legal philosophy and historical debate here. In the course of this debate on 12 April, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other experts, as well as the other members of the Commission other than the drafters, stated that in this form this draft is legally proposing something that cannot be legally done. It was also proposed to amend the text accordingly, as it is clear that it is welcome to hold a debate on the border agreement. At the same time, we have always reached the view in several Riigikogu formations and in the case of several governments that the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Riigikogu, according to the law, have the right to negotiate border negotiations and conclude new border agreements, just as a sovereign state can do. No amendments were proposed to the text of this draft. Nor was it prepared to amend the draft text during the procedure, so that it came to this Chamber as proposed. Procedural decisions were taken on 19 April. There was no further discussion of the draft at that meeting, but the same debate that we had when the agenda was adopted here: either 51 votes in favour or a simple majority for this decision. In this debate, the Commission also found that 51 votes were needed: 2 votes. It was decided to bring this draft to plenary today and to hold a final vote. Here we are with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U66	There's no questions. However, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U67	Thank you. Let's ask the same question I asked the previous questioner. Maybe I'm wrong about the year, but I think it was 1996. Well, that's not decisive right now. Mart Helme has told the Russians, as an ambassador, that the Estonian side does not consider it worthwhile to call for the mention of Tartu peace in the border agreement, because it is a dead end, and that is how we will never get to the signing of the agreement. And the treaty is, of course, about this capitulant border. I understand that circumstances and assessments have changed, I accept that. However, has there been any serious opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that someone is going to ratify this border agreement here in the Riigikogu? You have said that this [signature] withdrawal procedure does not exist, but ratification and non-ratification of this option is still there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U68	In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, too, it has been repeatedly acknowledged during these discussions that, in the current situation, Estonia could certainly not ratify this Treaty and will not do so. In fact, this is precisely the role of the Riigikogu. The government has done its job, not this government, but previous governments. And now, in legal terms, we have this signature, the Republic of Estonia has been granted. You can't take it back. However, the agreement does not apply. If the Republic of Estonia decides not to go through its elected representatives into this agreement, it can be done in such a way that the draft ratification, should it ever come to this Chamber, must be rejected. We all have a mandate for that, and we can do that. That's how you get out of this deal. Another way to get out of this agreement or change it is to inform the Russian side that we want to start negotiating again. Such an option is legally available. This would probably require a decision by the Riigikogu again. No one has so far submitted such a draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U69	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U70	Thank you very much. Good Eerik, can you answer me why the Commission started discussing this question, whether there should be a majority in favour or a majority in vote? We have a valid law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which states the conditions under which the majority of votes in favour and when it is easy or when the majority of the composition is. Why did the Commission start discussing the implementation of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U71	As we know, we have a practice in place since February that the Bureau, which is sending a draft of the Commission to which this question may arise, is asking for a decision by the Commission. So we were just doing the board's job. I do not want to comment on whether this is legally competent. Personally, I find it strange, and we actually probably need to clarify the rules of procedure on this matter at all. Now that you have raised this issue again, I would like to note that this question is indeed the case for this decision. I agree with this logic to some extent that, since this is not a draft law and the government does not have to formally do [as proposed], it could be like a simple majority of votes. Makes sense. On the other hand, I think, in essence, that it is legally doubtful whether such a task can be given to the government at all. I don't think so. But let us try to take into account the idea of the drafters, which is the amendment of an international agreement, already ratified once in the Riigikogu and by the Government of the Republic, signed by the Republic of Estonia. In the Estonian legal space, this means that such an agreement will in any case require a two-thirds majority of the Riigikogu. So it actually makes sense that this decision requires not at least 51 votes in favour, but 68 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U72	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I heard yes, you did not discuss this issue, but for me, as a member of the Legal Affairs Committee, the question is that if the Estonian Riigikogu has already decided to ratify [the agreement] and it has also added a so-called preamble to Tartu peace, which perhaps disliked the opposite party, and if we now find out that it has disappeared from there in the silence of the Ministry, then in the Ministry someone has acted against the will of the Riigikogu. And that is my question: is this document not legal, not legal? The Riigikogu has not been able to decide that. The Riigikogu introduced a reference to the peace of Tartu and now it is lost in the silence of the Ministry. What kind of document are we going to process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U74	I'm trying to understand the question now... But I'd rather explain. The reference to Tartu peace was added the first time the border treaty was ratified in the Riigikogu. And it was not included in the text of the Treaty, but was included in the ratification law, which is a so-called cover letter. There is an explanation for the fact that the peace of Tartu applies. It is remembered that this Treaty was ratified in the Estonian Riigikogu, and was not ratified in the State Duma of the Russian Federation. After that, a number of years later, new negotiations, new consultations, which are possible under the Vienna Convention, began. So this ratification law, which was then made, is still valid, certainly there. There's just no contract. The contract "rauges" is a modern word in Estonia, i.e. it did not enter into force. The second time, there's been a reading here. In the then draft ratification law, which has not been adopted, my memory did not have the same sentence of the preamble. Why wasn't it? You can look at the previous protocol. If, for the third time, there is a treaty or another treaty to ratify this Chamber, it can certainly be added, unless it has already been added.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U75	No further questions. Thank you! We're done reporting. Let's go to the negotiations. During the negotiations, I recall, the representatives of the political groups and the representatives of the committees can take the floor. Please, Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group. [[Henn Põllamaas asks for more time.]] Three minutes extra time, eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U76	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You have certainly all seen this book, a collection of articles that was given two years ago on the 100th anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. I hope you've read it too. Here is also my article, which is entirely eternal in its content, and therefore I will first read it to you. "Although in 1991 we regained independence as the legal successor of the Republic of Estonia and most countries of the world recognised Estonia in all its characteristics, including within the limits set by the Tartu Peace Treaty, today's boundary is the so-called temporary control line. In disregard of international law, Russia has annexed a piece of the size of Saaremaa from the Estonian territory behind the Narva River and in Petserimaa and refuses to recognise the validity of Tartu peace. Lawyer Enn Sarv has said: "The importance of the Tartu Peace Treaty is reflected in the fact that it is a test for predicting the future of Russia. If Russia has recognised the Tartu Peace Treaty again, then, and only then, we can say that Russia can finally become a democracy. " In the meantime, Estonia itself must insist unwaveringly on the recognition of the Tartu Peace Treaty from Russia. At the beginning, our foreign policy remained within these principles and negotiations with Russia with the demand for the return of occupied and annexed Setomaa and the areas behind the Narva River, then soon, in 1994, a shift took place in Estonian political discourse. Relations with Russia started to talk about 'a new Eastern policy' and 'positive inclusion'. The new policy started primarily on the initiative of Lennart Meri and was realised in the so-called July agreements, which left twenty thousand Soviet officers in Estonia with their families, a total of about one hundred thousand people, whose departure was the subject of an oral agreement with President Yeltsin on President Arnold Rüütel. Unlike Latvia and Lithuania, the requirement to compensate for occupation losses and to apply for a border determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty was waived. The border line of the Estonian SSR was established and the negotiation process was classified. All in all, there was legalisation of the situation and occupation of international law, although we were supported by international law and the world public. The Estonian people were only able to read the new border agreement after it was first signed by [Urmas] Paet in Moscow in 2005. It turned out that what happened could not be called negotiations, because the final text no longer had any conditions originally on the part of Estonia. There was no debate or referendum, the agreement was concluded without the people having the opportunity to take part in the process [by expressing, proposing or otherwise]." The Riigikogu ratified it against 82%, despite opposition from the public, and completed what Stalin once started. "Estonia was willing to give up all its rights, part of the country's territory, voluntarily and free of charge during the peace process, and wanted to legitimise the illegal border. This is unprecedented!" More than ten countries, including the USA and Japan, share border disputes with Russia. "Toona was stuck in Tartu's peace due to the reference added by the Riigikogu to the Preamble (not to the Border Treaty) of the Act of ratification of the Treaty. The Kremlin didn't like it, and he called off the signature. " Of course, such a reaction was not expected by our creative politicians. "After this, the situation was "solved" by not referring to the Tartu Peace Treaty, but unlike Estonia, Russian Duma has not done the first reading of the new treaty. " We've done it many times. Luckily, they've all gone by changing the trash. If, in 2005, the necessity of the agreement was wrongly justified, that it would not allow Estonia to enter the European Union or NATO, we would not try to justify it today. They only talk about good relationships, and God knows what, the need to finish it. But did Latvia, which signed the 2007 agreement, give up on Abrene? Are their relationships any better? No, it's not! Good relations with the Kremlin, the key to this is only in their hands and depends on their will. "Estonia's further concessions make us ridiculous in the eyes of the world. They don't give presents to the aggressor. This is particularly absurd after the war in Georgia, the attack on Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea." That's all I'm gonna read from here. You all have a chance to read it, but I'm still with two hands behind what's written here. And now I'd like to talk a little bit about today's situation. We have heard here as if the Riigikogu did not have a wish to conclude a border agreement. But that's not true. We all remember very well how the Foreign Minister of the Reform Party, Marina Kaljulaid, lied to us here that there is no occupation, Petseri County and the areas beyond Narva are not occupied. I don't know what miraculously happened to Russia. We have heard the foreign minister of today's government announce only in February from this very remote area that we must conclude a border agreement with Russia. So that's the will, actually. Why else are they refusing to declare that we're taking the signature back from this border agreement, we're not going any further with it, it's in the trash? The only reason is that at one good moment, this creative and pristine border agreement will still be managed. They say we can't withdraw the signature. Legally indeed, but we can declare that the government can declare, on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu, that we will not proceed with this, we will withdraw the signature, the agreement will go into the trash can. And when Russia did, the Riigikogu accepted it. I was given a new and even more shameful agreement, where the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty in the preamble was thrown into the trash. And are we really going to tell Georgia, and especially Ukraine, to wait, wait a little while, in a few decades' time, you will be able to give Russia occupied, annexed areas, and everything will be okay. What example do we set in this regard? Do you think a little bit? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And talk about it as if the withdrawal of our signature would provoke and would somehow be unprecedented to hear, will you also tell the Ukrainians if they are fighting for their territorial integrity that this is a provocation? (The President rings the bell: "Time! ") Such stories are only useful for the Kremlin, not for Estonia, and who comes out of it, sink or fall underground!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U77	On behalf of the Isamaa Group Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Chop or pieces, this piece, where the mouth stays, says: The Estonian border is set by the Tartu Peace Treaty. In the college where I got higher education, I was taught to be and live so that I'm here and I can't have it any other way. The Tartu Peace Treaty and the Estonian border after the Tartu Peace Treaty are my political credo. That's what I said when I was running around Jõgeva County and Tartu County when I was applying to the Riigikogu. And I'm still grateful to the people who voted for me. I got a lot of votes over expectations. In this hall, I've seen people come to this remote control repeatedly and say that I wasn't really going to come here today at all. What I'm saying is, actually, I was gonna come over here tonight. But the group came forward and proposed that I speak on behalf of the group today. Just as I am grateful to my constituents who chose me here on the basis of my political credo, I am very grateful to the group for being authorised to come here today to speak. Yes, I think that this new agreement, which is wanted to be signed and signed, should be denounced. There is no need for such an agreement. We say by the Fatherland that the Estonian border is set by the Tartu Peace Treaty, and so it is. There is no need to conclude any new contracts. And take the example of Japan. Let's wait, let's suffer. Aggressor has said to Ukraine: bear with me, sweetheart. The Estonian people say that whoever suffers will live for a long time. Let's wait for our right moment, our right time! I don't know if anyone ever stepped on your toe or stood on your toe. How has the situation been resolved? The Estonian state is currently standing on its toe. How's this gonna work out? You don't have to cut your toe when someone's standing on your toe. Let's wait a minute! Long live free Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U79	More factions... However, on behalf of the Reform Party Group Marko Mihkelson, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U80	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party does not support the draft, for a number of reasons. The first and most important reason is that we should not really discuss such a draft in the Riigikogu, because the government is unable to implement the proposal. Estonia is a rule of law, and we should also, in making our decisions here, follow very closely what we, under national legislation, have in mind the law of foreign relations, but also international law, as we can or cannot do under the Vienna Convention. One dispute has been about what the quota could be like in voting on this draft decision: [at least] 51 or not. However, in itself, in order to make such a proposal at all, national legislation should be amended and allowed, for example, under the Foreign Communications Act, that, unlike many other countries, Estonia has the right to withdraw its signature from international agreements that have not yet been ratified in Parliament. It has also been said here that it is as if the treaty should be denounced. The Treaty cannot be denounced if the Treaty has not been approved by Parliament by ratification. Therefore, this whole debate here is in some ways unfounded. Yes, I understand that he has such a political side and background, but it certainly is not appropriate for the Republic of Estonia, which is acting in compliance with its obligations under international law, but above all international law in this case. This is also one of the main arguments, the main line that we have had in these debates for 30 years. Another important point, which has also been pointed out by [the proposers], is that the subject of the border treaty is, as if, directly related to the issue of whether it violates the Constitution or whether it is subject to amendment. In this regard, too, a common understanding has been reached in the debates held in this Chamber several times over the course of 30 years. The Chancellors of Justice of Estonia, who have been in Estonia for the last 30 years, have also given a single and clear position: this is exactly the same § 122 that allows the Republic of Estonia to define its state border after the Tartu Peace border and by concluding [also] international agreements when it is necessary to define the new course of the border line. On this basis, the various governments of the Republic of Estonia, as well as the various parliaments, have been acting consistently for 30 years. On the basis of the debates held here too, it has always been understood that it is important for the Republic of Estonia to define a state border with all its neighbours, especially the Russian Federation, on the basis of international law and current agreements. One important point is, of course, the situation that has arisen in the world since 24 February 2022. It is quite obvious and unambiguous that in such an international situation, the Republic of Estonia and the parliament of the Republic of Estonia cannot move forward towards ratification of this agreement. And neither does the Government of the Republic. This agreement has not been presented to us here so that we can deal with it in this Chamber. There is no appropriate debate on this issue, too, if we are wondering why we should discuss this issue in substance here. And perhaps another aspect that has been highlighted here. It's a scrap of memory from an earlier history. I could use a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U81	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U82	Repeatedly, the supporters of the draft have stressed the example we set if Estonia is to comply with international law. We set a very clear example for Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia and other countries. This is precisely what Lennart Meri has said as President and what has been repeatedly recalled: for Estonia, its small nuclear weapon is precisely international law, compliance with international law, conduct on this basis, and on this basis, being credible and predictable in the eyes of its partners and allies. And this is also very important in the sense of how we have achieved our membership in the European Union and NATO, and also in the sense that Estonia is known in the world as a reliable partner in international communication. If anyone has the belief that one agreement, including the border agreement, could raise questions as to how we could deal with the border agreement at a time when there is some kind of destruction or occupation of the territorial integrity of a country, we will recall the beginning of the nineties. Such a little imprint. May 1995, Kremlin. Mart Helme has just handed over his ambassador's credentials to Boris Yeltsin. A moment later, he gives an interview to a Postman journalist in Moscow, which was me at the time. Mart Helme then said, describing his forthcoming years in Moscow, that as his most important task as ambassador, the negotiation and conclusion of the border agreement between Estonia and Russia will be as soon as possible, because it is very important to Estonia. I'm just reminding you that at the exact same time that Mart Helme talked about it, there was a war in Chechnya, thousands of Chechens were killed. In Moldova, Transnistria was under Russia's control and, similarly, Russia was conducting its imperialist policy in the South Caucasus. Unfortunately, nothing special, nothing different from what we see today. But I would like to conclude once again by stressing that, certainly in today's international situation, this issue is not topical. The ratification procedure of the Riigikogu is not carried out and it is therefore inappropriate to take a position on this issue. The Reform Party will certainly vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U83	Mart Helmel has a request for a reconnaissance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U84	Thank you. Now I'm a cross and a cross, like I've done something really bad. However, I would remind all people that in 1995 there was no international situation like that today. A country which does not itself abide by international agreements other than the Council of Europe, for example, is no longer the subject of international law as it was in 1995. A country that has occupied the territory of its neighbouring countries - South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Eastern Ukraine, Crimea - cannot be a partner with which we still have to organise our intercourse on the basis of international law, just as if nothing had happened. This is a completely incomprehensible approach. It doesn't match reality and make me responsible for not being able to see it all coming in 1995, well, that's just ridiculous.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U85	Thank you. I didn't hear the name Jürgen Ligi in either Henn Põlluaasa or Marko Mihkelson's speech, so I cannot give the floor for the rejoinder. There's no reclining for the reclining. In order to make a reclining, a member of the Riigikogu must be mentioned during the negotiations and not during the recess. So there's no reclining for the reclining. Okay, we're done negotiating. Let's get to the vote. The commission of directors' proposal is to pass the final vote on this draft, as I said. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Before we go to the vote, I would remind you that there were no amendments to this draft. I therefore vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, entitled "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to withdraw the signature of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation signed on 18.02.2014." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U86	With the result of the 28th against 53 the draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U87	Our second item today is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" 552 submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Here, too, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required. Ivar Padari as waitress, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The history of school catering in re-independence Estonia and the process of channelling it by the state has been over 20 years long. I myself had the honour of introducing here before the Riigikogu, as Minister of Agriculture at the time, such a thing as the school milk programme, which was intended to motivate schools to make more use of domestic dairy products through grants. Under those circumstances, small dairy processors who operated in the regions had just emerged, for example, producing local yogurt. It was intended to give children in schools the opportunity to promote dairy products and, on the other hand, to give local farmers the opportunity to participate in school meals. It has now been a long time, and the school milk programme has been supplemented by a school vegetable programme and simply such a programme to promote good food practices. In the order of 3 million euros, schools will be paid through the Office for Agricultural Registers and Information, most of the funds being European Union funds. At one point, I think it might have been during the reign of Siim Kallas, in the early 2000s, added to the school-food program, school milk and school vegetables, free school food. And these volumes were much larger. Free school food, which is now formulated not as free school food, but simply as state support of EUR 1 per school day, requires an amount of EUR 25 million each year from the state budget. What, then, is the importance of school food? In the case of school food, we have talked in particular about the fact that for many children this may be the only warm food per day. That's the social side of the thing. But there are several other parts of this thing that need overemphasis. For me, it is important that school food, if there are sufficient resources for it, promotes the right diet. And another thing that is very important and which has come up in all kinds of discussions on agriculture is that, in fact, domestic, close-growing consumption is being promoted, which is extremely important. We discussed the situation of pig farming in the Committee on Rural Affairs in the Riigikogu during the winter. Estonian pig farming is under a great deal of pressure because there is a lot of meat in somewhere in Europe. And when we reached the point of discussion about why Scandinavia does not suffer so much because of the pressure that has arisen in such situations, one very senior Estonian food industry veteran said that there is such a [mentality] in Scandinavia that somehow low-earth is used to [the principle] that preference is primarily for domestics. And there's this attitude that if there's a lot of import pressure and if that price is somewhat lower in the store, then it's still preferred to domestic. I think that school food and promotion of school food have an important role to play here. Moreover, when it comes to school food, there are very positive developments that are currently seen in a pilot project. A little over 40 schools are in a network where 20% of school food is organic food. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has found an opportunity to support this. It is very good that this pilot project has now begun. Before such things become national, they must be tested in a smaller community as to how they will work. When it comes to funding school food, municipalities have behaved differently. There are municipalities that have also brought parents' participation in the provision of school meals. What I can do can be done if the council decides to do so. There are municipalities that have done this and those who have not. In the case of school catering, it is also the case that there are municipalities with their own cooks and there are municipalities that have tendered and the winner of the procurement organises school catering. But where is the problem? The problem is that, in fact, at the beginning of this year, I have tables here, for example, for January and March, the components of school food have become more expensive, one can say twice. It's not gonna work out with the money so far. Municipalities have their limits on how much they can now, if they certainly have enough extra responsibilities to pay. And it is clear that it would be extremely important for the state to increase its contribution. Point one. Point two: there have been situations where the winners of the procurement are unable to complete the procurement for these reasons and are forced to terminate their contracts. And in a situation where they have terminated the contracts, today's Public Procurement Act does not give them the opportunity to participate in the new procurement. I think that we need to consider, in the case of public procurement law, what would be a much more flexible option in times of crisis, so that those companies, for reasons beyond their control, will still be unable to perform procurement, will also be able to participate in these new procurements. These two points are set out in the content of the draft. These are the decisions that would urgently need to be taken in this case. But if you look at the subject of school food in some way in the long term, you definitely need a bigger discussion here in the Riigikogu. This is the right multi-pronged subject. And one of the major [problem] that needs to be found in such an all-Estonian [solution] is precisely what these procurements are and how they can be organised in such a way that proper domestic raw materials reach our schools. And here we actually have ideas, and we also have examples of how other countries of the European Union have behaved. So I very much ask for your support! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U89	There are questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U90	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Ivar! Here's the question. You didn't talk about [that], but remember, I don't have the latest numbers. Healthy school food is very much made up of vegetables, vegetables are healthy things indisputably. But the price of vegetables is [high], and there is also value added tax. Latvia has downgraded VAT years ago, a few years ago. What's the Latvian number, maybe 9[%]. If we also reduced VAT on vegetables or organic food in Estonia, the cost of school food would definitely be reduced. Perhaps you can tell me what this Latvian experience shows? So what's happened in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U91	As far as Latvia's experience is concerned, there are two analyses: one which shows that it did not actually justify itself, and the other, which says that it actually motivated more vegetables [to grow]. In this respect, as I understand it, in the case of the experience of Latvia, when it comes to the consumer's access to the shop, there was no significant fall in prices from the point of view of the availability of the shop. However, as regards the Estonian context, it is certainly reasonable to consider in the context of Estonia that, when we are talking about school food, promoting school food and bringing in an organic component, the distinction between value added tax on organic products, which does not have a major impact on the state budget, has a very large impact on the incentive to produce more. There is one problem with school food: we can make good plans on how to feed, for example, organic schools, but unfortunately, this raw material is scarcely available, the most scarce potato.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U92	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U93	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I hurriedly tried to think about what these options could be if the government coalition did not support this draft. It is simply that they may not understand that prices have gone up and that today those who have to provide this service are complex [to cope]. Having worked as a cook on our own, I think we could use three components [in this case]. The first is work-education, which is possible in the form of a school garden. Maybe you could get your own flavor green and something else for autumn, but in the summer, he would have been cared for. The second question: would it be possible to use the so-called "food bank" [solution]? By the time the deadline for realization is over, but more suitable products could also be made by school students, sweetening their mouths. And the circular economy: it's very good to make a root beer out of dried bread, a dried bread grated toast. This means that such social entrepreneurship in the school could also develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U94	Yeah, that's what we've been talking about before. After all, we all remember from our early years that we had these school gardens and that work was done there. I think that a school garden, like a lot of other things, is tied up in whether the school manager can find the scope for it, how much he has to deal with these issues along with the main activity, which is definitely giving children wisdom and education. As far as the food bank is concerned, I would say let the food bank stick to the activities it currently has. But all the activities of the Food Bank could certainly be made even more reasonable. For example, there are food cupboards in different places in Estonia today and I know that the veterinary and food agencies now, I think, are called the Agricultural Office, have really done their best to make such food cabinet options available. But this every other activity, as you said, was gathering at school, wasn't it also such a thing that a) there are certainly some standards that relate to food hygiene, and b) well, he's still stuck with teachers again. I can imagine that if there's an apple garden around the school, why don't we dry these apples out there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U95	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! There is no doubt that municipalities should also be given additional support for school food, given the increase in prices. Rather, the question is, what is this method? Do you think it would be wiser to come to the Riigikogu every time and start processing it, or do you think it would be worth taking this mechanism of supporting local governments and financial autonomy in such a way as to guarantee the local governments a normal income base and we should not discuss here whether the price of the cabbage has risen by 20 cents or 30 cents? You have a long experience of why the Riigikogu so far has not wanted to make the income base of local governments normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U97	There has been a great deal of talk about this, my dear colleague. Most recently, this was the case when there was an administrative reform. It is already five years ago when we discussed the administrative reform here and when I was the chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee for a short time. At the time, too, discussions with the Ministry of Finance were that when the issues of administrative reform are over, the functions of rural governments can be divided, then the next stage is that we take apart the duties of the local government and how the local government's money must come. We all know today that the Ministry of Finance has not come up with this very forcefully so far. So it's up to us to ask the Treasury where they are and how it comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U98	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am glad that there is a topic here in the Riigikogu, because I can safely say that, as chairman of the last century's Jõgeva Vallavolikogu, I gave free school food to Estonia at all, I think, first brought it from Finland. It is free of charge in Finland. But what we would say is that the real problem is that some municipalities pay off all utilities and wages. Other municipalities by means of public procurement order this service. Already there is a big difference between whether you have input costs at the price of food or not. Were you also discussing how to equalise this system when this bill was being drafted? In fact, many municipalities today pay for most things and groceries [have increased]. We were talking about vegetables before, but the prices of vegetables, I'm looking at, aren't up, they're down in the shops. But once again, did you also discuss equal conditions in all schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U100	Thank you. Actually, that's one of those deep things you can't finish talking about. As I said, municipalities have behaved in a very different pattern. There are indeed those who have announced the procurement, and that is all. There are those who have taken the chefs on payroll and combine several parties together and basically the children are fed. In this respect, there are some things that we might think that they could be standard in the country, right, a uniform approach. But on the other hand, what I mean is that if we want these single approaches [we want to], then from somewhere along the way, the municipalities must be given the opportunity to shape their faces in some cases. You have to look at both sides. I can give you an example that Europe always asks what the cost of milk is. No one in Europe dares say that because it consists of such complex elements. Just as in this case, it is very difficult to say what the price of school food is, because the differences between municipalities are very large. So the answer to this is that there are certain activities that should be harmonised nationally in procurement. For example, one thing is clear: if there is a procurement, it is all over the European Union, everyone can make their offers. We can't say anything back to that. On the other hand, there are certainly opportunities if procurement includes, for example, parameters that [means] the freshness of food, and that means that they must be stored at close range.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U101	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U102	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your brilliant and clear presentation. As we all know, today we have three crises at a time: the war in Ukraine, food prices and other prices have all gone up. We're not gonna starve, but the problem is, of course, that healthy food gets to every kid's dinner table. Can we also have food security for school food?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U103	Yes, it can. I used to talk about children getting the experience from an early age that [it is right] to value domestic food. This is actually one of the cornerstones of food security. What do we have on food security? We have a number of problems with food security. One serious problem in the winter was that when a lot of pork was left on the edge of Europe, it came to the Estonian market and Estonian pig farmers closed their doors. It's like there's nothing to say. But somewhere in the countries of Scandinavia, for example, just culture is such that we, above all and regardless of what the price is, consume our own and only then open the doors. So this is such an important aspect of building food security so that domestic values are valued. And actually, it's also marked by scientists, I believe it's true that food products from their geographical area are the best available.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U105	Good manager! Dear waitress, If the cost of school food was 78 cents, it was 1.3 euros for our fine prisoners. I don't know what the price is now, but I'm sure all our 2400 prisoners will be watching this debate here. What's the status now? The price of potatoes has risen by 120% and by 140% on buckwheat, it will certainly also affect the price of prisoners' food. Are there plans for the Social Democrats to ensure that everyone takes account of the rise in energy and food prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U106	Unfortunately, I have to say I don't know what to say about the prisoner ration. About how much this price is. They are expected to be fed three times a day, and there are these differences. We can say today in many areas, including, for example, amendments to competition law, but we, I don't know, road construction or anything. Prices are everywhere because they've just been blown up by energy carriers. In this context, I consider it extremely important that the subject of school food be negotiated and reasonably secured with the budget. That would be the first thing. And when Mr Kokk here spoke about this from his experience in Jõgeva and the experience in Finland, what the Finns did after all. The Finns had the hardest time since the war, the hardest time when refunds were paid to the Soviet Union. And they set up, like a club, [free] school food, which is still there. So, yes, I don't know what to say about the prisoners' ration, I don't have a personal experience. But when it comes to school food [problems], they could be taken out of all other things and given priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U107	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good Ivar! Of course, the issue of school food and the opportunities to provide healthy and affordable food for our children is extremely important. I know that very well, being the chairman of one of the schools. This is an issue that we always bring up. In particular, distance learning during the corona showed how many children have a normal warm meal available only at school once a day. This one euro, which the Estonian state gives to local governments, is clearly in the way of time. With this money, it is not possible to provide high-quality, healthy, rural, mild and Estonian food. These are the arguments you've raised in your presentation. But have you calculated it in your head and thought about it, especially as a former Minister of Finance, how much so-called fair state support could we be able to do so, especially those municipalities that are currently not adding anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U109	That is why this is the draft decision of the Riigikogu that we have submitted to the Government of the Republic. We have this format: proposing to the Government of the Republic. It is extremely difficult in the Riigikogu to suck exactly what is right out of the pen. With regard to the increase from EUR 1 to EUR 2, this order of magnitude is clearly in the budget of 25 to 30 million. That's the magnitude. But it is clear that there will also be any compromise. That's the way it is. Once the state has started to support school meals from the state budget, it should still be very sensible, thoughtful and progressive. You can't be fooled with school food to make kids eat navy macaroni three times a week, macaroni po-flotski.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U110	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U111	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Money is always part of the problem in society. On the other hand, the European Commission's initiative concerns the whole theme of the green turn [in relation to] the fact that food quality is not good in Europe and that very much CO2 is produced in this sector. That's the way it's come out of the farm to the plate. In the context of drafting this draft, did you also discuss this model, which I think should be discussed in this Chamber at some point, how should it actually happen in Estonia? After all, we know that part of this effort is to ensure quality, [by] obtaining food from as close to home as possible. But today's legal space may not always be in favour of it. Did you discuss this issue and, when you discussed it, is there something going on in the context of this initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U112	The honest answer is that this particular draft came to the table because the municipalities contacted and said that the pill was broken. Those who have taken the caterer through the procurement claim that they are unable to act. But now it's been almost two months, and I've had to analyze this whole school food process from a number of sides. All the things you said, the theme of the farm to the plate, and this footprint theme, as far as I know, are very clearly applied in Denmark, based on the principle that measures this footprint. With this footprint, the principle is that I might be a little wrong, so within a 250-mile radius, it could be the areal from which the food would reach school. But let me put it this way: this is the thing that I now want to analyse and even bring Danish experts to the Riigikogu, how they have done it and what the results are. It is clear that a green twist and a green mindset cannot be reasonably applied anywhere if it is accompanied by an insane transport from one end of the world to another. Forgive me, for example, in the case of Estonia, I do not understand why we should carry water from southern Europe to Estonia. A simple example! If this transport component is still included in the price, well, what about the green turn we're talking about for the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U113	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good Ivar! Certainly a very necessary and appropriate initiative and draft. In a situation where food prices hit the ceiling, devastated families' wallets, it is essential that young people get a proper school lunch, a high quality lunch, and a healthy lunch at least once a day. You've brought these numbers here, how much food prices have increased, including the cost of school food. Do you also have an overview of how much this very rapid and steep increase in food prices has already worsened the quality of school food?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U115	I know that all schools are very serious about ensuring that quality does not fall. And so far, there has been very little such bad feedback. I know that someone was talking about schools in Tallinn where something has happened, but it is clear that with the same funding there is simply no other option if quality falls. That is the fact that if it is not given enough attention at the right time, quality will fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U116	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, life has become more expensive, people's situation is more difficult and it will undoubtedly affect poorer families, where perhaps warm food cannot be provided at home. That's what school food is more important. But here's my question. As we know, I understand that there is not enough organic potato growing in Estonia that schools may want to [buy] it. And another concern is that, if we talk only about organic food, it can also come from abroad, not from Estonia. There should be perhaps two things together: healthy Estonian food, whether it is mild or not, and it should be close to the school. Please tell not only the increase in funding [in the context], which should be accompanied by a decision on school food, so that Estonian agriculture wins, but also schools and children win in the form of healthy food.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U118	Thank you. I am very excited to see the pilot project that is currently being carried out in South Estonia. Over 40 schools have set themselves the goal of bringing more organic food to the school menu. The other part of this is that these coordinators and organisers are actually negotiating with local farmers to make sure that this raw material exists. And I honestly admit that this is a very difficult problem, because the growing of organic vegetables in Estonia, for example, has not lost much wind. We have it that it really is to some extent in the case of potatoes, but with all the other vegetables, there are few successes. So the other side of this is definitely the agricultural side of how schools in [their] region would find the farms with which they can work together in a stable way. It is this stable cooperation and security of supply that has been a major concern for the supply of organic production.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U119	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U120	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The Committee on Finance also discussed the subject of school food and the position of the Ministry of Education on this issue was clear: their priority in budget negotiations is the pay of teachers. Which is perfectly understandable, because the Ministry of Education has also been set such, I do not know, performance targets regarding the quality of education, reducing the drop-out rate of pupils, at all school welfare. But it's not about school food. It is understandable that their focus, especially in a situation of lack of money where teachers' wages fall behind inflation, is the pay of teachers. Am I right to understand that, in fact, the fact that our children receive quality local food is a matter of political responsibility, of political decision-making and, in fact, of responsibility in this Chamber? We cannot put it on the budget negotiations, where the Ministry of Education should stand up for this issue, but obviously that is not their priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U121	In fact, this is how it is that the whole school food issue is in the hands of several ministries, and that is why we discussed school food with experts yesterday, who will then be responsible. The Ministry of Rural Affairs is responsible for one half, which is then a school scheme of the order of 3 million, plus an organic project of 1 million, with a total of about 4 million. On the other hand, local governments have a grant of 25 million in the form of a support fund, and I believe the municipalities are putting 15 million in. There has been about this assessment of Estonia as a whole. And now there is a clear need for Riigikogu discussion. The debate in the Riigikogu should actually take the form that there is a joint debate between the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Culture in which the matter is first opened. Well, whether it's the title, "Where are you going, school food?'. We should talk about this because he's somehow passing us right now. Money goes into the budget, but for what, it's kind of meaningless. So the Riigikogu should definitely hold these discussions together with the ministries, that is our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U122	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U123	Thank you, good Ivar, for this presentation and for raising this issue. Can you describe in this difficult situation that if the state does not find additional resources now, what will actually happen? Given that the number of these bidders is probably limited, some of them no longer qualify because they have not been able to fulfil their previous contractual obligation, what will actually become of autumn? What does that mean for local governments? What does this mean for these providers, but above all, what does it mean for children who are used to receiving hot food at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U124	Thank you. The fact is that there is a great deal to depend on the local government, its wealth, alongside the state. Who can support the horn choir? They can also give more to the school food. But in the case of local governments, we can see that, in this war situation, there is a great deal of commitment on the part of local authorities in different areas. We cannot infinitely expect local authorities to give more. So what is this: if local governments have opportunities, then more will be paid and quality will not fall if the municipality does not have these opportunities, there is a risk that quality will fall. And it must now be like catching and guaranteeing that in all areas of Estonia children will receive high-quality school food.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U125	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. With this item on the agenda, one oral question can be put to each of the rapporteurs. Now comes the order of the co-rapporteur, Mr Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and it is also possible for everyone to ask a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 11 and 18 April this year. The draft was presented by Riina Sikkut, the initiator's representative, and in part by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research. At the meeting of 11 April, Liina Põld, the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, noted that the school lunch allowance for students in general education schools was raised from 78 cents to 1 euros four years ago. In the meantime, both food prices and the needs of local authorities have increased [to fund the work of school staff]. The [Ministry] agrees that the area may need additional funding. He pointed out the following background data. According to 2022 data, the state will allocate EUR 30.4 million to school food, of which the general education allowance is EUR 24 million per year, with municipalities adding EUR 12 million. It also includes parental participation fees when established by the council. At the same time, he noted that a meeting had been scheduled with the Cities and Municipalities Association, as well as at the [meeting] on 1 May of the Working Group on the Education Budget of the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Education and Research calculates this as an education support service and their priority in the ministry's view is, above all, the compensation of education costs and the increase in teachers' salaries. The Commission continued the discussion on the draft on 18 April. A debate arose between the members of the Commission on the first point of the draft decision. Andrei Korobeinik, for example, felt that the debate was necessary because prices had risen, while the school lunch grant had not increased. According to Aivar Koka, local authorities should also contribute. Aivar Sõerd noted that the state budget is made up of many components and highlighting one topic is not good practice in budget making, the budget is complete. Dmitri Dmitriev believes the theme setting is right, an agreement on rising prices should be found, and if we want children to be healthy, we must contribute not only to the movement in the open air but also to healthy eating. According to Jürgen Ligi, the issue of school food should not be dealt with in such a way that the quality of food depends on the money added by the state. Catering for children is not part of public services and education has a number of important priorities, such as teachers' salaries. To conclude the long debate, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 3 May and that Mr Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Commission, be appointed as the representative of the lead committee. Both decisions have been taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U127	And there are questions. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your summary, it was rather as if the school food allocation of EUR 1 was like the solution to this problem in order to raise teachers' salaries. Was there, like, a discussion about it? A representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs said there was a problem, a representative of the Ministry of Education said it was a side service. Is there a debate on the government's table today that this proposal should not be supported, because this 27 million should rather be used to raise teachers' salaries? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U129	To sum up, I would say that both the Ministry and all the members of the Commission agreed that there was a problem because of rising prices. The amount of school lunch allowance has not been increased for several years. At the same time, the members of the Commission had different views on how this problem should be addressed and how quickly and who should deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U130	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I now listened to the reading of this protocol, I realised that you personally strongly supported the establishment of these problems and the search for solutions in the Commission, but a fellow Member felt that this should not be at all a matter for the state or a service provided by the state. Let's forget about the problem! What is your personal view of whether there should continue to be a warm lunch for our children with the support of the state? And was there even a discussion on this issue in the Commission, or was there a tacit agreement with such a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U132	As I said earlier, we had a discussion on the first point of this draft decision, which actually deals with school lunch issues. And since I am here as a representative of the Commission, I probably should not speak from a personal point of view. But I am simply referring to the fact that a balanced diet is being discussed by us, for example, in the population health development plan 2020,2030 and also in the Green Paper on nutrition and movement. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U133	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U134	Thank you. Was there also a debate in the Commission that this additional, additional pressure on the local government budget again means an additional cost of some EUR 30 million per year, which the local authorities probably do not have planned? Your coalition partner here has repeatedly said that local governments have plenty of money and more. For this subject, it would probably be appropriate to use the comparison "like porridge." As much as they can put additional resources into this hobby education, it can be slashed peacefully, and so on and so forth. Did the Commission discuss how local authorities will manage their budgets by the end of this year and next year if this additional obligation falls on local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U135	Thank you for your question. While this issue was raised during the debate, no solution was proposed. The members of the Commission therefore maintained different positions in this regard. At the same time, I must point out that this is obviously an issue that must really be raised immediately by the Cities and Municipalities Union on behalf of the local authorities at the meeting of the Budget Negotiations Group on 11 May and try to move forward with the Ministry of Education and Research in order to find some sort of solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U136	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U137	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! When we talk about school food money, there is always a question of where the food is bought, what the money buys. When we go to the store, prices vary considerably from milk to cabbage. In one shop you can get a pear for 99 cents, in another store you have to pay 3 euros for it. If the price of school food is increased, could there be a solution that certain foods have been given a price cap with which they should have been bought? At the same time, should it also be resolved how local farmers could sell food to schools in their region in a simplified way? Should they all be [organised] through procurement? What is your understanding of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U138	Thank you. We did not discuss it so finely in the Commission. For my part, I say so much that school food is still intended to provide as healthy and balanced food as possible to our young people. I think that this objective must be based on [thinking] how technically the issue of food purchases will be resolved. We don't have to solve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U139	That's it, right? Then the questions are over and we can consider this report to be complete. Let's go to the negotiations. The request for negotiations has been published by the Anti Half Office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U140	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! The drafters have raised an important issue. However, in a context of galloping inflation, where we have not only reached the European front-end, but have achieved an unworthy first place, all budgetary funds relating to fixed amounts need to be reviewed, because they lose purchasing power at an enormous rate. True, not everything can be corrected at the same time, but I think with this draft we will start the correction in the right place. Let's start with the kids. The theme of the quality of food comes up in one way or another over and over again. The answer usually clarifies that there is no better quality food available for the current funding. But a high-quality and varied school lunch should also serve as an example for those homes where chips and coke and other weight growers are a bad habit. Children's numbers are growing rapidly. It has not left even young athletes untouched. Researchers say that for obese children, an average of 60 minutes a day is not enough. If at the same time eating habits cannot be controlled, the proportion of physical activity should be significantly increased to 90 minutes per day or more. Fruit and vegetables, among other things, can help to combat overweight and obesity. If a child gets hungry, he could erase it with chopped raw vegetables, say nutritionists. Carrots, cabbages or cucumbers could be available to children at all times in schools. Fortunately, studies show that eating fruit and vegetables is growing. If we have high-quality, diverse, healthy school food providers as well, smart eating habits will spread across the country. School food shouldn't be bad like Elsa Grechkina. Do you remember what kind of crispy names the school food was called back then? If there is already an increase in the price, there will be a marked increase in the quality of food, not just a follow-up to inflation. This could be the point of gravity that we leave the children with the memory that they were well fed at school. It's the same in the military. When a soldier feels well fed, he feels the support of his people behind his back. I remember the difference when domestic producers offered golden yellow potatoes at the Battle School in Meegomägi. It felt like your people were feeding. But when public procurement got worse and worse, potatoes were brought from Poland, there was nothing more to say about food. It was just food, the epithets disappeared. If we cannot offer a free apple without European Union programmes, then there is something very wrong with our capabilities and addiction philosophy has taken on new dimensions. As a result of the 2021 joint procurement, students were catered twice as cheaply in Tallinn schools as inmates in Tallinn Prison. Critics say that this can come in no other way than at the expense of the quality of food. Chips and buns from the school cafeteria. Problems are food intolerance. For example, children who do not tolerate milk often have soup and potato sauce to eat only twice a week. Lunch could be more supportive, considering that especially in rural schools, the child takes more time to get to school and home, [the day is longer] than eight hours. Try to hold on for eight hours with a bowl of soup. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U141	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U142	For many children, school lunch is the only warm meal a day. In an article by Teachers' Paper, Mari-Vivian Ellam, a teacher at Kiltsi School, wrote: "It is no secret that free school food is a great help to a large part of Estonian families. Having worked as a teacher in a small rural school and seeing some of the children clearly skinned during their school holidays, my first concern was after declaring an emergency situation, what happens to the children of poor families." And let us not forget that the share of children living in poverty was 2.7% and the share of children living in relative poverty was 15.5%, based on data from 2020. At times, children were commended for their school lunch: "Today, a fruit salad was a dessert. " Why can't we have such good food all the time? The kind that kids like. The Estonian survey on the health behaviour of schoolchildren revealed that about 70% of people up to 11 years of age eat breakfast, but among 15-year-old girls, for example, there were almost 40% of those who did not eat at all in the morning before school. Rising costs make management more difficult from year to year at the current school food price, so additional money would bring significant relief in offering a more diverse menu. The cost of living and the wages of cooks move away at a high speed. In a context of 19% inflation, food prices will also rise to the roof due to war. Each day, the press brings distressed messages. According to Eurostat's flash estimate, we have the fastest price increase in the euro area. The current supplementary budget should also reflect the steps taken to cope with the galloping price increase. Food prices have increased by 8% in two months. The rapid rise in food prices has not been in Estonia since the time of the end of the ruble. Swedbank reported that there has never been such a rapid increase in food prices. Maybe someone will remember the beginning of the '90s and correct their claim. But the situation is serious. The war in Ukraine raises energy and food prices even further, according to analysts. The World Bank warned in a new forecast that Ukraine's war-induced supply disruptions would lead to huge price increases. The UN price index already shows that prices are at the highest level for at least 60 years. The price of electricity has doubled. Huge inflation is primarily driven by the increase in energy prices. So, it's time to raise school food support. Estonian children should eat at least as well as prisoners in prisons. That is not an unsurpassed goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U143	I would like to make an extension of the sitting before we proceed with the negotiations. The Isamaa Group has proposed to the Riigikogu to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. So we can get the vote done before 1:00, we're doing it now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a proposal from the Isamaa Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. That is what we must vote on, so please take a stand and vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U144	The extension of the sitting is supported by 43 delegates, no votes against, no abstentions either. We've extended our trial. Let's continue the negotiations. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U145	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, What are we going to talk about now that we're talking about school food? It's not really about the macaroni or the soup bowl. There are at least three very important aspects why we should discuss school food in this Chamber at all. The first is the question of reducing inequalities. We actually know that for many children, startlingly for many children, school food is the only warm meal a day and is perhaps the only decent full meal a day. And there is no way to consider this to be of minor importance or to forget about it in this debate. The second is the health dimension. Local Estonian food, ideally prepared on site for this particular day, is important both for the day-to-day well-being of children and for long-term health. On the one hand, it shapes healthy eating habits and, on the other hand, it allows you to get well fed so that all these mathematics tests can still be performed. And the third is the economic dimension. When we talk about local food, local food production and local food output in school kitchens, it is important. And let us be honest, in this Chamber I have repeatedly said that for every decision we must look at the regional impact. And it's clearly a theme that the land grows and the city eats. So, when we talk about school food, we are actually dealing with reducing inequalities, children's health and the impact on the economy, both giving an advantage to local production and improving regional balance. Now for the goal. The goal really is for children to be fed up with healthy food, to be able to do their schoolwork, and to develop good eating habits for a long time. But what is reality? Questions are about the quality of food, whether it likes and tastes for children, but also about the nutritional value, the amount of pasta or added sugar, the small number of local vegetables or non-semi-fabricade meat. The second part of the reality is the increase in prices, which Anti Half-Amets talked about at length. And we're not talking about the increase in the price of shrimp, we're talking about the price of potatoes rising by over 100%. It's something that affects every school kitchen, every child's full stomach, and it's not one month. The last four months, or the last five months, have been more than 10% price increases, including food prices, have been faster than this average. Nor can it be seen that in the current situation, in a war situation, the cost of food is falling. So the effects are long-term. The question is how the winners of the contracts can comply with the contract at all. And since the price is higher to get the raw materials needed, what are the concessions made? Finally, the quality, the quality of the food that we have already had problems with, will suffer. In the current circumstances, it is undoubtedly necessary to commend school chefs who, taking into account all the prescribed calorie standards, are able to put together a school menu, from which tens of thousands of Estonian children will be fed every day. Now, why has it been difficult to deal with this issue, and why is it in this Chamber today? Indeed, the subject of school food concerns, on the one hand, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which regulates what nutritional requirements are, what is healthy food to offer children at school. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education, which strategically manages the whole field of education. Go on... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U146	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U147	Next, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, who deals with how food is grown in Estonia. Then local authorities who put their money in addition and who actually organise these procurements. And given that this responsibility is divided between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and local authorities, and sometimes additional money is also charged to parents, it is difficult to say who should then apply for this extra money, who should make this decision. Indeed, the representatives of the Ministry of Education in the Committee on Finance made it very clear that their priority was the salaries of teachers. And there's no way to blame them. Back in the day, school food support came as a political decision. [Now] in this Chamber, we all see that it is necessary to reduce inequalities, to promote children's health and local production. And now there is a political decision again. If we say that, actually, given the price increase, the quality of school food and the constraints imposed on procurement, we see that there is a need for extra money so that children can at least be fed up at the current level, but hopefully also more of the raw materials produced locally are fed, then that is the decision to find the extra money. Instead of 1 euro per day, it is possible to provide food for children, for example, for 2 euros per day. This is not too much for us as a country, and its impact on both the economy and children's health is long-lasting. As a society, I think we can do [this]. Just as we have considered general education important, it is available to everyone free of charge, so school food is very important and will ultimately also affect learning outcomes. There is no need to see children on an empty stomach running around in physical education or doing tests. So now there is an opportunity for all of you to make this decision in conscience and actually support a draft decision aimed at finding extra money to pay for school food support and ensuring that rising prices do not leave our children empty, or that our children's food does not become much less valuable and unyieldy. I hope that you will support the draft decision of the Socialists and make school food more delicious and local for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U148	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I welcome the fact that the state is taking the same step as the municipalities. When I arrived in Finland during my independence and had lunch at a school, it turned out that school food in Finland was free of charge. Returning to Estonia and being chairman of the Jõgeva Vallavolikogu, we took it to 1995. In 2001 this idea also in its own domain and then there was a lot of fun. I admit that we started with 1 kroon and then [we got] 2 kroons to 5 kroons. That's how much school food cost at that time. The children also attended city schools, and the children living in the city could not understand why the children of the municipality could receive school meals free of charge, and the city children could not. There was a lot of talk about healthy eating with school food today. But I didn't hear one important thing about it: everything actually starts at home. The way we cook at home, what we offer to our children, from there to kindergarten and then to school. At the beginning of this century, we made a school and kindergarten cookbook with chefs and children from all schools and kindergartens. First, 600 meals were selected. The children tasted them and chose their favorites, and then they looked at health. Eventually, 180 meals were selected. This book became very popular across Estonia because if there are good recipes for healthy food, it is possible to make good food. At a time of rising energy prices today, it is clear that it is certainly very difficult to offer all food products [expenditure] and school meals for 1 euro in trade. As the draft waitress said, schools and municipalities have used a wide range of models to fund school meals. There are schools where school chefs are employed at school, all the input costs of the rooms, electricity, cleaning is paid from the rural municipality's budget, and with this state support, school food is simply purchased. There are municipalities where all this service is provided through public procurement to private operators. Which way is it? Let the local governments decide that, because some rights should still remain with the local governments. We shouldn't be making those decisions in this room. But it's definitely important where this food comes from and what quality this food is. On the one hand, I strongly support the maximum amount of Estonian food. But there are certainly [necessary] food products that are not grown in Estonia, and they must be bought elsewhere. But the most important thing about food is always its quality. Now it is often the question that municipalities want to somehow become the maximum price for food. Large purchases are made so that one wholesaler brings food to all schools and local suppliers are rejected. They simply cannot offer because they do not have such a wide spectrum to provide all food. And I have to admit, quality often falls. Maybe it looks like there's a win in the price, but... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U150	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U151	...a pretty high percentage of the merchandise that arrives is thrown right into the trash because it just doesn't work. Does the state have to pay for all the food or not? Does the municipality have to pay for this too? Or should a parent have a share in paying for school food? This discussion is always on the table. We know today that there are a lot of children who only get hot food at school. In the morning, they go to school on an empty stomach and maybe eat a sandwich at night, but not a hot meal. School is a place where a child gets fed up, eating warm, decent food. And it is important for us to look at this in the long term, because a healthy person is very important. And health comes from a very good diet, of course, movement and everything else that comes with it. Our task is to provide these levers and opportunities so that our schools can provide our children with healthy food. It is certainly important to discuss this issue here in the Riigikogu. Similarly, municipalities and parents who practice and teach their children about healthy, high-quality food have an important role to play. And if anyone says he can't make healthy food and buy it at the store because it's expensive, I'm sure I'll tell them he's lying. Because vegetables and other vegetables are the cheapest in the store than anything else they sell there. I see you're already competing with carrots, onions and cabbages for 30 cents, and then you think about what money's left for that grower, because the seller has to get something, and sometimes the cabbage leaves are picked up because they've dried off. The goods must be beautiful and fresh. I believe it is worth discussing this bill in this Chamber. The majority in the Committee on Finance supported the completion of this first reading, and I hope that those in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who supported sending the first reading to this Chamber will support the fact that at one point it will arrive at second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U152	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to this draft were tabled, and the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 552. This bill, too, requires a majority of votes. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group 552. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U153	The proposal is supported by 27 delegates, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U154	Today's third item is the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Isamaa Group, 553, which is a first reading. Aivar Koka, member of the Riigikogu, will be here as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U155	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We know that society is screaming under energy bills. The high price of energy carriers has hit both businesses and consumers hard. Estonia is the country with the highest inflation in the euro area and it must take urgent steps to support itself, people and businesses. Compensatory measures are urgently needed to curb the surge in inflation. One solution to mitigate the effects of increased energy costs would be to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9%. It is unacceptable that, in a situation where the country's tax revenues are increasing, no steps are taken to mitigate the price increase. In March, the average electricity price was 18.38 cents per kilowatt-hour, including VAT 3 cents. Last April, it was three times lower. Even if VAT is reduced from 20% to 9, the country still receives more VAT revenue than in the same period last year. In this context, Isamaa has submitted a draft aimed at reducing VAT on gas, electricity and heat to 9% and thereby reducing the impact of the surge in the price of gas, electricity and heat on Estonian consumers and businesses. The huge increases in the prices of gas, electricity and heat have significantly increased the VAT receipts, thus the total revenue of the State. At the same time, the country's revenues are also significantly increasing due to the high price of the CO2 quota for emissions trade and the increase in the volume of purchase of quotas in electricity production. It is unfair to punish consumers and our business twice: first price increases and then a higher tax burden than gross domestic product. The leap in energy prices due to the political decisions of the green turn and market distortions is the most serious problem for our business and consumers today and in the near future. In order to alleviate this problem, the Fatherland offers a reduction in VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9% from 1 May this year. The costs of gas, electricity and heat are mostly compulsory costs, for which there are no alternatives. The cold winter has increased these compulsory costs further. Russia's war against Ukraine is also greatly accelerating the rise in energy prices. In this regard, the Fatherland wants us to face our people. And when some politicians in the Reform Party are saying that there is nothing to be done with taxes, VAT and excise duties, we saw yesterday when we handed over the extra budget, that this is not true. We can see that the reduction in VAT is in the press from 9% to 5%, yet there is excise duty cuts on specially labelled diesel. When this debate was here last week [on this subject], I said with a loud voice to the Minister that what you are talking about is that we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs are not supporting them. The same night, I understand, the coalition made this decision quickly, that at least the special-marked fuel was excised. We have had a situation in the country today where entrepreneurs would like to offer different solutions to bring down energy prices, but the government has been indecisive for the second year or in the current policy. What is preventing Toots' wind farm from developing today? It is simply necessary to make a lower bid for wind energy, or green energy, to a greater extent and the problem would have been solved. When someone says that it affects our people's consumption, it is again wrong, because, in fact, renewable energy, wind energy, we have a limit on how much we compensate and how much people are asked for money. It does not depend on how much production is made in Estonia, but is placed in front of [the limit], if I remember correctly, 500 megawatt-hours. And today, take double money from people! I still have not understood why it is not spoken with a clear loud voice that Elering's activity is actually behind the increase in the price of electricity, uh, that the cable was built between Estonia and Latvia, i.e. another hole was drilled in the large container before it was realized that there was really nothing in this vessel. And then, when we were more likely to buy Russian electricity from Finland and sell it to Latvia, in the meantime, the Estonian Elering and Finnish transmission system operator both took almost 200 million euros from our pockets last year. If we add up these 180 and 180 million, that's 360 million, and then we talk about compensation! 170 million will be compensated. I'm asking where the other 170 million is. Why was it taken out of our pocket? This VAT proposal was submitted by the Fatherland last year. If there had been a VAT cut, there would have been no need to play games where people have to go to the community to ask for help and everything else. It's the same with network charges today. If Elering takes the overload fee anyway, she's got the network fee either way. We must look our people in the face and dare to say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that this energy crisis does not come again next winter. It is said that making the second pension pillar voluntary increased the cost of energy. I would say thank God that the previous coalition supported the proposal of the Fatherland to make the second pension pillar voluntary because people had the capacity to survive this winter and to pay for their energy costs, which increased over and over again. Is it natural that a year ago you buy gas with EUR 17 and now you pay EUR 120.150 for it? In repeat, prices have increased. We are hearing news this week that the people in European countries are raging over the rise in energy prices in percentage terms, we have [increases] in repeats. At one point, it seems that it does not seem to be understood when the extra budget comes to the hall. $800 million has been written in it, but you're asking what it is, what it's supported. Insulation of houses. Very good! Although I'd say it's less than $20 million that's written in there for private homes, it's a drop into the sea first. Secondly, there is a condition that the buildings of the last century will receive, the buildings of this century will not go under it. I have offered on several occasions that we agree that, for example, we will exempt solar panels, heat pumps, wood pellet boilers for a certain period of time, installation of storage tanks in private houses and apartment buildings, in order to contribute to the investments that we want to make in order to escape the dependence of Russian gas. Today we are talking about LNG, the same draft gas. There is no gas today, but the state will decide that we will buy gas at the highest price of this century in the world. Six times, seven times more than a year ago. Of course, Russia has to sell six times less, [but] get the same money as a year ago. Is there an idea? We're doing, we're trying to do some kind of state capitalism about the LNG terminal or the quay. In March, private companies were prepared to bring gas to Estonia at 2.5 times today's price and offer it to people, but today they are just throwing sticks into the spokes. There is no solution, there is no solution today. I have no doubt, but there are doubts that there are still no family ties here [in the game] in Elering, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the government. Somehow, during the last government, all decisions have been turned to Elering. And now the draft Economic Commission has been brought forward, which is also trying to move around the corner of the directives agreed in Europe to simply nationalise the property of private operators. What is happening today in the Estonian government or government? Now let's give our people a chance to do it on our own! This fall in VAT, we see today, does not lead to a reduction in money from the so-called planned budget, but, in fact, we are making progress from 20% to 9% will bring more money into the budget than the budget that we received in the autumn and adopted in December. And if anyone says there were numbers on the other side, he's lying again, because according to the autumn forecast, all the numbers will be placed in the state budget. I thank those members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs who supported this draft. Only members of the Reform Party voted against. But it is true that all members of the Riigikogu have the right to make independent decisions and [think] whether they are looking for solutions to how the people of Estonia [can] survive the next winter period. Warm would already, I think, in the second half of September, when usually in homes, boilers are started or firewood in the oven. I seriously ask all members of the Riigikogu to support this bill because we are only invited here for one purpose: to support our people in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U156	Thank you. A few questions, too. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, VAT is one financial instrument that certainly has its influence and is in place. But even more important in this whole is how to ensure that local fuels are available in the autumn and winter periods when heating is needed. The great aim is to abandon Russian gas so as not to support the aggressor in this war against Ukraine. What kind of situation do we really have? We have peat, we have a bio- resource, a forest, in the form of chipping wood. I understand that this deficit is around 3 million circa. Have there been any ideas in this debate on how to resolve this, and now, or are we waiting until autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U158	Thanks for the good question, Andres. Sadly, the government doesn't bring these issues to the table. There's still such a game of ping-pong ball. In my opinion, the opposition has been constantly trying to help the government for the last six or seven months, bringing various drafts to the Chamber of the Riigikogu to help people in Estonia get their energy costs down. On the one hand, as you mentioned, there's either chipped wood or peat. Is support needed for the conversion of central boiler houses? Is it necessary that, in the homes I have offered myself in this booth on several occasions, solar panels, heat pumps or the switch to chipped wood or pellet, a measure to reduce VAT for a period of time, in order to help private individuals to make these new investments too? Without it, there are still hundreds of thousands of families who have a great fear of winter, because there is no heat. And when it comes to gas, frankly, I would ask if any organisations should not investigate the inadequacy that governs the government and Elering. No solution at all! Today, there are all obstacles to making sure that the LNG ship does not reach this port of Paldiski in Estonia in the autumn and that gas is not pumped from here into Latvian caves, from where the Estonian consumer can use it afterwards. Every day, which has been postponed, first, the ship that [is possible] will be expensive if it can at all. And secondly, the price of [crack] gas has risen on the market because everyone has awakened. And if anyone thinks that turning off gas in Estonia tomorrow is an easy thing to do, then I will give only one example. If the peak electricity load in Estonia is 1600 megawatts, then the gas has 2200. And we ourselves produce electricity in the order of 1000. We do not have this production capacity today and all the alternative options should be on the table and the same extra budget should have been the place where the support for these alternative solutions would be included. As we say, no fish, but a fishing rod is needed. And today, KredEx should also have measures in place on how domestic consumers can obtain loans in order to find alternative heating solutions for themselves. If no one's been to the store, I can tell you that if you wanted to get into one of the stoves, the prices of the stoves would start at 4,000 and 5,000 euros and the chimney today, we looked at it, and I was hoping it would be one and a half thousand, but Heiki said that if you got it, it would be very good. But how many families have EUR 10,000 to have the oven built? And usually making an oven in an apartment building is hopeless, and heating a private house with one oven is hopeless in a different way. How many stoves would a person have had to build [lasta]? If you want to put [in the house] air-water into the heating system, it costs at least 10,000, but then you have to have power. If you want a solar panel, even a 10-kilovat solar panel with a 5-kilovatis storage device, then the offer of Eesti Energia is on my desk: it costs 17000. The cheapest offer I've ever seen on the market is 13,000, but there are solar panels that don't make much. Our people don't have that ability. But the government has not proposed a solution. The most important thing today is that people have the confidence to go to autumn and winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U159	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! VAT is indeed one financial instrument, and in fact an important financial instrument, which, on the one hand, collects a certain tax revenue for the state, but, on the other hand, it is a burden especially for the lower-paid, lower-income people. And if it were to be reduced on energy prices, then it is quite clear that the winners of lower wages, the recipients of lower incomes, will win the most. Have you any idea why the Reform Party is so rigidly opposed to this? I imagine that they are saying that it is again the sowing of money from a helicopter, but on the other hand we also remember that the Prime Minister's parents did not need this support, but now we see from the extra budget that 50 euros have been put in place. Where's the cancer under the rock?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U161	Thank you, Heiki, for the question. Surely you can ask the same question from the Commission rapporteur and get a more precise answer. But it doesn't make any sense, "Don't go through what I've done, but follow what I say." It seems the Reform Party often does. You can't sow from a helicopter, but we can really see from the extra budget that children and older people get all 50 euros before the elections and in October. When we were discussing the average pension and the extraordinary increase in pension, we proposed that it be from 1 January this year. The problem would be solved. There's no need for a one-time show. Of course, 50 euros is certainly important for all families and older people, but this 20-euro pension increase, which has now been pushed to January next year, would have been much bigger. Or we're talking about an average pension. After all, these are measures that will help our people to cope with energy prices. I'm not saying that when you go to the store, you don't help [watching] with yellow and white labels. Every week, city people get a number of magazines to decide what they eat this week. But under competitive conditions, prices have increased. For example, the fish-eating salmon fillet price has already reached EUR 20, but it was less than EUR 10 a year ago. Not to mention milk or bread that people drink and eat every day. No, I haven't figured it out, and that's what we've been asking. To be honest, today, thanks to this additional budget, all these answers should be known. But so far the Reform Party has [announced] that excise duty cannot be reduced and VAT cannot be reduced. We can see from the additional budget that, in fact, all of them can be reduced, only somehow for very selective and incomprehensible reasons. Instead of saying that Omniva would not increase the price of press delivery home, they will be reduced by VAT. I say that, unfortunately, the subscriber of the page will win nothing from there, because home delivery will cost more than the reduction of this VAT. But from our proposal to reduce VAT from 20% to 9% all consumers would win. All consumers! Regardless of whether you are a [private person] or a private entrepreneur, you would be given the opportunity to cope on your own. The Estonian person is proud enough, he does not go, with his hands long, to trade at the door of the municipality. This was also demonstrated by this measure, which was discussed for five months and was adopted by the end of this year. In order for the municipalities to be able to make a huge distribution of costs, they had to hire more people, with little income. We offer a good solution to help the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U162	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U163	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! You must have described the price race and the inflation that has hit us. It is logical that energy prices are an input to almost all services-goods and deliveries. In this sense, this [help], as you pointed out in answer to the last question, should reach each person's pocket. But [did you understand in the Commission] what this solution is? I understand that part of the coalition did not support this proposal. What's the solution? When we saw this surge in energy prices in spring, then ran after the subsidies, now some money has been booked in the supplementary budget, but there are still no mechanisms. How is this problem to be resolved if this draft and idea are not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U164	Thank you. At the moment we discussed this draft in the Commission, the additional budget had not yet been presented publicly. At that point, the opponents said that it was not good to simply lower VAT on products, that is unreasonable. Today, of course, this reasoning is lost because we see that the coalition is doing so. There were, if I remember correctly, two members of the Centre Party who supported, one did not vote, and the Reform Party did not support. The first reading bill in this Chamber will most likely pass, and then the question is whether or not it will ever make it to second reading. But at this point, we'll be honest, criminal if this bill isn't passed. This is a crime against all our businesses and people. What is going on in trade, and what is home expenses, it is drastic. This will take the last savings away from the families, and when autumn arrives and the first heating bills come in October-November, then it will only be understood. And then I'm sure they put into the budget these beautiful Brezhnev packages, as they used to be, and the election says we came back to help you. Instead, we need to find a solution that does not need new programmes or an insane workforce. There is a need to change one number in the program to another, which takes time, I think, a few dozen minutes. And I believe that if time goes a little further, it will be understood that many of the drafts of the Fatherland have come to the hall in six months' time as drafts of the coalition. This was exactly the case when there was a postponement of excise duties from 1 May to 1 May of the following year. We handed over this draft a year ago in April, and at the end of September the coalition reached that understanding. I understand that not all coalition politicians supported this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U165	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U166	Thank you. Honourable representative of the initiators! The explanatory memorandum states that this Act will have the effect of reducing VAT receipts [for the period] from 1 May 2022 to 1 May 2023 by an estimated EUR 75 million. We know that gas prices have increased many times. How much more VAT will actually be collected now by this amount and, after such a reduction in VAT from 20% to 9%, will there be more in the state budget than initially expected? Can you tell me about the amount of money that the state currently takes out of people's pockets through VAT and collects more into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U167	Thank you. You're right. At the moment the bill was made, we did not realise that the price increase was so great. It's clear today. When we looked at the price of electricity in March, it has tripled compared to a year ago, which is three times the amount of VAT received. When VAT is reduced by half, the state budget receives almost one-and-a-half times as much revenue as was planned for the adoption of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U168	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U169	Thank you. It is a bit strange to hear this VAT story that one product or service, as you see it, receives more VAT than what you expect. I don't know, this is where you were talking about yesterday's extra budget transfer. The supplementary budget explanatory memorandum states that the budget deficit is EUR 1.72 billion. So there's your VAT overrun. What I am asking, however, is how serious this debate is here at all. I cannot find here in your bill how much the impact on the price increase will be on this VAT cut. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was a draft ECRE, there was this impact, but there is no impact analysis. I also asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this morning if the information had now been received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No, it's not! I ask you what the impact of the reduction in VAT on consumer prices and inflation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U170	Thank you. Aivar, of course, it is really sad that the government of the Reform Party has brought Estonia into debt slavery. It is really sad to note that in a year it has been possible to do what the previous governments have not been able to do in thirty years. This is incredible! The party that has always fought for the debt to be low will bring the Estonian budget to the greatest debt burden of all time, and all this by doing nothing. If something had been done, it would be understandable. But I, Aivar, honestly don't understand what this debt is made of. Three months this year, some kind of money has been distributed. As former finance minister and finance specialist, we're together in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, maybe you can tell me after how these decisions have been made, what has been done for three months. 200 million to Ukraine, all of these subsidies in the state budget do not exist anywhere. And now the Minister of Finance is talking about yesterday in a press release that 800 million additional budgets and 1.7 million loan burdens. Does this mean that 900 million have disappeared in the meantime so that none of us understand? But to tell you how much a man wins is easy. Value added tax (VAT) is added to net turnover by 20%. Next time you put 9%, this order of magnitude is just over 10%, which each consumer wins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U171	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think that the additional budget procedure will be very exciting for us here. Yesterday I listened attentively to the presentation by the representative of the Reform Party Group, and I am not convinced that they can support this budget, because there was still a lot of crap. The same tax distinctions you refer to, why didn't they support it? I think the representative of the Reform Party said quite clearly yesterday that this is not a sensible idea that is reflected in the additional budget. I hope they do not change their mind in this context. And there was a lot more. These accidents during the Ratas government, which Martin Helme despised and supported in his own words, I did not understand whether these things were bad because Helme said or because they were bad. But I guess that'll be clear after a while. I still have a question that, if we support this draft, what are the solutions, which will be expected of consumers in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U173	Let us be honest: this bill is part of how we help our consumers. Acts, VAT, network charges are the places where the state can come to help today. Plus, to give private investors the maximum chance to build wind and solar parks, LNG terminal. If we look at the [current] situation today, none of these solutions have been proposed by the government. None! The only solution today is how we say that with state capital, LNG is not allowed by law, and [implement] all the obstacles so that private operators do not start investing. No guarantees can be given. I am afraid that if, with this draft and the subsequent proposals that have already been discussed in this Chamber and the time for the amendments is over, if these decisions cannot be adopted in the spring before Midsummer, then this government will simply have to resign itself. It is not possible that in Estonia the government is simply taking the people of Estonia as they have now taken the country into debt slavery.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U174	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U175	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I'm gonna have to check out one thing about the previous government and the excise cuts it's made. The Fatherland, of course, was the one who pushed it in for a very limited period of time, and the EKRE said that we would do it indefinitely. There's been a lot of debate about how, who and what. Why did the huge price increase come after the date of the excise duty cut prescribed by the previous government? I see you're about to step on the same rake again. Do the draft proposals have the opinion that in a year's time, the current crisis will be over and that everything will be fine again? It has also been pointed out here that the EKRE has a draft today in order to reduce excise duties and VAT on energy for an indefinite period. In my opinion, the approach should be to lift them again when society is ready. Are we not already putting the next mine down with this year's proposal to start discussing in a year's time that society is not really ready to go along with this price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U176	Thank you, René! Remembering the previous government and discussing excise duty, Martin sitting behind you also remembers that there was, on the one hand, an argument about how much and what time. The real concern was that the officials of the Ministry of Finance fought hard to say that this would lead to destruction. Then it was a compromise that we would make a year's probation to show that this cut in excise duty is the right decision. It was the right decision to assess the consequences, and the fall has not been the way it was. Of course, there were different disputes in all political parties, but I can safely say that before the government decided, my article in Postimees was that it had to be done. But you were one of the champions. No one can argue with that. But today it is very clear in this draft that in a year's time this debate will come. Here, I have to admit, we also have to look at the fact that, should a miracle happen, we all sometimes dream about it, especially as children, that miracles happen and prices get back to the class that was a year ago, then, of course, lowering VAT to 9% is not right, because the country will not receive any money. Today [maybe] this solution is not likely to happen. We put it here very aware that the next Riigikogu and the new government can make the right decisions. The current government, I see, these decisions cannot be made. Perhaps [VAT] should be further reduced when prices have increased. But today, I think it is important, along with this subject of VAT, to give a clear signal to private operators and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Let's start with the construction of wind farms. If there were a Livonian wind farm right now, we wouldn't be talking about that price of electricity. Or if it weren't for the cable built in Latvia, we wouldn't be talking today about an increase in electricity prices. Now they want to build Finland. In the same way, it is right that electricity will be left over in Finland at the nuclear power plant, but the other way around, if we were to build [Community] in the size of 750 million, which goes to the construction of cable [pay], Estlink 3, it might be more expensive every day and instead could support the construction of wind farms quickly. On the contrary, we could sell Latvia and Lithuania, where today the electricity deficit is very high, and we could make our price even cheaper. And if a good solution could be found for wind farms how to store this electricity, it is hydrogen or somehow different, then, according to the current calculations of Eesti Energia, the production of electricity from wind farms could be greater than the need for energy in Estonia. At the same time, we certainly cannot shut down oil shale stoves today. Oil shale boilers should work to cover peak loads and windless days, which are claimed to be only a few percent for marine parks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U177	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U178	Thank you. Good waitress! As we have heard here, the budget is bad. At the same time, however, the Minister for Rural Affairs has come to the conclusion and has been able to justify in the government that the excise duty on special-marked diesel must be an issue. And it has also found a position in this budget. If, for some reason now, it is not possible, in the context of this draft, to achieve a result in the Riigikogu by a majority in order for it to enter into force, what do you think these alternatives are? How could we solve this problem in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U179	Now let's be honest, there aren't many alternatives. As I have mentioned, VAT, network charges and excise duties are. This is the state's part. Plus, to give all the way to renewable energy production, electricity production, and to get the LNG reception dock ready by autumn. At present, LNG prices are still 2.5 to three times cheaper than Russian gas currently offered on the market. It has not been bought since April because the price is something that 99% of people and businesses could not buy. They would literally all remain in debt after receiving the first bill. I don't see an alternative. Another alternative is what today's government might like: to start distributing subsidies as so-called packages. Just as in October they were €50 grants, maybe they are made every month by another 50 or 100 [€]. Maybe 30 million and 30 million and 30 million, which is now due for October. This could be an even better position before the elections. But it would make sense to find that solution today. The Fatherland has offered a very good solution. And I believe that if the debate on the additional budget last week has come to this Chamber with the understanding that there could be some reduction in things, then perhaps coalition politicians have an understanding, now it must also be supported by those who did not support it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When we look at the second bill that went through the first reading here last week, the issue of excise duties was. When we are talking about reducing the excise duty on special-marked fuel, let us be honest, after all, diesel has an even greater impact on the price race. Food products reach stores in 95% of cases by diesel car. A very small percentage are those pies that drive gasoline. We've all got big machines riding diesel, and there's no alternative there today. There is no alternative to all transport solutions in Estonia today. These alternatives exist in the long term. But we cannot now talk about what these solutions will be in 2030 and 2035. We need to find a solution today. Today, this decision needs to be made, not postponed. Deferral is the problem with this government. They can't make a decision. I can commend the fact that there are several ministers at the table with whom I was honoured to be at a table as chairman of the committee, and we were able to agree an additional budget in two weeks. Yeah, of the three parties, each had two people locked up for the night at Stenbock's house, and there had to be a solution by morning. We came up with a solution half a night. I liked the way they made deals there. When these six people agreed, the government stopped discussing this issue this morning, because that was the agreement. This led to the best decisions in the world during the COVID crisis two years ago. The best country out of crisis was Estonia. If it were the same government today, we would not be discussing the issues of how this winter people have spent their incomes because of the rise in energy prices and are going to face the winter of next year with fear, because there are no more savings to cover energy costs. If today we do not make decisions on how to help our people and our entrepreneurs, the crisis will be much bigger than we can anticipate. And those high ratings are gonna crash.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U180	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U181	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Our sunrise government was supposed to have a good fresh effect and get up and wake up, but I've noticed that he's now reminiscing of another solar government, I think Louis XIV was. "I, this is the country. " Unfortunately, [we] do not have a king of the sun, but we have a sun drama-queen here who cannot make any decisions. Or is it because the government has suddenly fallen into such a fiery sleep in this great rise in ratings? My question is simple: why is the government sleeping at this moment and why isn't it acting now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U182	Thank you, Tarmo, for a good question. Although it would be right for the government to give that answer. It's hard for me to tell you why the government can't make decisions. And that is a good example: this is now an additional budget debate and two months of discussion on an additional budget, it was said that it was a defence cost cover. There was talk of 800 million defence, military solutions. You're going to dismantle the extra budget: 15 million in the line of defense costs. Half of this is very important, 7 million is the creation of housing for NATO troops. But 15 million! We've given up our defense weapons for 200 million dollars, ammo. We're talking 15 million in an extra budget! The most important solution to the Ukrainian war is to give 50 euros. The Centre Party says they did the maximum they could. $800 million gave you $30 million. I mean, in the previous government, I don't know if EKRE or Isama would agree with the option that 800 million is an extra budget, each one would have received 30 million. I think that room in Stenbock's house would have been marched out dozens of times and I don't even know if it would have come back. But what are the solutions to help our people? 30 million was written about state capitalism: Elering's funding. I remember this discussion back in this hall, how the networks were bought from Eesti Gaas and given to Elering. So somehow, there's a situation where Elering wants to get to the terminal where she has all the gas. And then, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, a bill tries to go around the corner. If someone builds this quay as a private operator, the state can take it or a public undertaking can simply take it to a clap at a construction price. I don't know, some construction companies would be ready for that. If you build with profit, well, that's your job. But investors who put their money into some idea they've developed since the second decade of this century want something for it. Speaking about the same LNG today, it is said that [will be built] with Finland on two and Finland on two. 2014 The Prime Minister of the Reform Party, Taavi Rõivas, offered it to Finland, withdrew [building in Estonia]. Finland has not yet built this terminal. If anyone has bothered to see where the LNG terminal should come from in Finland, I can tell you in this hall: this is where there is ice in winter. If anyone knows any LNG tanker, a ship that's an ice class ship, please tell me. There's no such thing in the world as far as I know. To feed LNG to Finland, Estonia and Latvia, it is necessary to bring three shiploads of LNG each month. Maybe then, as I understand it, you should buy four ice class ships theoretically to make this cycle work. But the price of one ship is said to be half a million. So, are we buying ships for $2 billion for three countries? Or we accept the idea that private operators were offering at least two weeks ago in this same booth, saying that if gas is supplied through this quay, private operators would not want to ask the state for a cent for this quay. If that gas isn't taken, they're gonna ask for compensation. This is private business, this is the direction that should be done. The state doesn't have to deal with everything, the state has to give certainty. Today, there's confidence [such as] that Elering says that we've made sure there's electricity. But one important argument has been rejected: at what price it will be offered. Is it really energy security that you first bought 50 euros, now you buy 150 euros? That's the fortress? Okay, if it was one, two or three days a month bought on the stock market, but that's the average price that's risen three times. It's the same with gas today. The state plans to purchase 1 sharp gas at a time when the gas price is eight times higher. The European Union did another of these tricks. We'll buy a lot of gas in the spring at once, as much as we can fit in the tanks. Of course, as consumption increases, the deficit increases. Every entrepreneur knows that then the price will also rise. And today, the price is high. In March, companies went to America to make agreements knowing that the government would decide that Russian gas would be abandoned and that LNG would be the alternative. And then, when they sat at the table in America and began negotiating with their counterparts, they were given a press release from the Estonian Government. There was a press release that the negotiations were taking place with Finland. The last press release was a few days ago. What does the press release say? There are no agreements, but what was the right word? We have agreed among ourselves that we will continue to discuss this issue. We all know that Finland will not have this terminal in two years, and Latvia will not have it in two years. Of course, the construction of the terminal is only right, because then there need not be such expensive LNG vessels that re-enter the gas [exploited] into the gas [situation]. But we won't be able to finish this terminal in one day. As a first step, the reception quay needs to be done, this small piece of gas to be built to connect the entire gas network, and the potential gas to be pumped into the caves of Inčukalns in Latvia in order to consume this gas in winter. There is no solution today. Did they put down the buckets on Monday or not? Were the stakes cut into the sea or not? No press releases have come because Elering and Alexela have not reached an agreement. Whose job is it to reach an agreement? Today, it is the task of the state to reach an agreement. The state must guarantee us delivery. Elering, Elering's company gets paid for this. But what do they mean? Okay, if there's no other solution, we're gonna buy Russian gas at any price, and we're gonna use it for whatever it takes. It's a nightmare. It's a nightmare, I say!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U183	We will be able to take the last question before our hearing is over. But the question must be brief and the answer must be brief. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U184	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The coalition ambassadors here have spoken of three important dogmas. One is budget balance, the other is that the more excise duty, the greater the receipts, and the third, the higher the taxes, the greater and better the receipts. But they have not said that perhaps taxes simply walk somewhere else [in the country]. Which of these three is the stumbling block why today's government does not want or cannot take decisions that would benefit Estonian citizens and we would achieve energy security or say independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U185	Thank you. I think today's government has abandoned all three of these points. Nobody talks about a balanced budget anymore. Today's situation is, as has been said before, that the loan burden will reach 8 billion, if not more by the end of this year. In reality, the Estonian state has never had such a debt. From morning to evening, the last government was constantly being snatched. The real situation is, however, that today's government is leading Estonia into debt slavery.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-03_U186	Thank you. We will continue to discuss this item tomorrow, the session is closed today.
