ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu on 17 June 2022 at 9 a.m. The President of the Riigikogu has convened it on the basis of § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and 24 by members of the Riigikogu, at the requested time and with the agenda. Establishment of a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. At the moment, there is such a suggestion that pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session is established by a majority of the Riigikogu's votes. So when we get to the vote here, the Bureau's proposal on the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session is as follows. The session shall continue until the agenda is exhausted. If the agenda item is not closed by 10 a.m. today, the session will continue after the committees have worked. This follows from Article 47 (1) (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, with the prescribed interval starting 15 minutes after the end of the session of the Committee on European Union Affairs, but not earlier than 13:00. So we are not going to the meetings of the Commission either, including the European Union Affairs Commission [meetings]. Now I ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or requests to the Riigikogu. Please, Tavi Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The next heating season is definitely approaching. We all know the state of play with energy carriers, the price level. I also watched this morning: the average electricity price in Estonia 227 euros megawatt, the peaks at 300 euros. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, it is certainly relevant to support the people of Estonia during the future heating period, so that the people of Estonia should not make a choice between paying food baskets and public utility costs, for example. We therefore have a proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop support measures for the next heating period. Indeed, our proposal is to abolish the end-user for this period, which is September this year until May next year, the network charges for electricity and natural gas. Second, to determine the price of district heating, electricity and gas by the level of the first half of 2021 and to compensate all final consumers of electricity between September 2022 and May 2023 for 80% of the excess of the price charged to the price of district heating, electricity and gas. Thank you. I hope that the Riigikogu and the Government will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U3	Yes, procedural question, Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really sorry if I don't get it right, but the questioner doesn't get it. I have this procedural question. There have been quite a lot of night hours in this Parliament in the last week, and I understand that we are not now going to process this draft, which was presented by 54 good members of the Riigikogu and from which the six Social Democrats Lauri Läänemets, Helmen Küttt, Eduard Odines, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske went away between the first and second readings. Let me get this straight. This isn't the bill right now, and we have a different agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U5	Thank you. I'll get it. No, we will not discuss this at the extraordinary session today. Today's agenda includes the draft law amending the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group, bearing the number 548 SE, is the second reading and the presentation will be given by Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Committee. So we're discussing another bill today. Tavi Aas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U6	Thank you. We have a very important draft here today in the debate on people's livelihoods. And I understand that the middle fraction really cares, but I'm actually glad to see that there are at least some people in each group who are on this subject... [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, I'm sorry, yes, I've already been too happy, to the socialists, it seems that it doesn't matter at all, but at least in other factions there are at least some people who care about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U7	Thank you. I cannot directly consider this question to be a procedural question, but it was an informative overview of what is happening in the Chamber at the moment. Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be interesting if all members of the Riigikogu received this message, what we have today and what the agenda is. And specifically the initiators, how are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U9	Thank you. Yeah, everybody's got a message. Now that we're done handing over the drafts and enquiries, we're about to go to the presence check. Due to the fact that there is an extraordinary session, it is necessary that the Riigikogu has a quorum if more than half of the Riigikogu is present. I believe that during the presence check, those who are in the halls will be able to reach this hall. Is there an instigator's side? Yes, it is, I will look in the hall from the Isamaa Group today's chairman of the Finance Committee, Aivar Kokk, will be present and will be able to report the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group, 548 if we have at least 51 delegates in this Chamber. Jaanus Karilaid, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U10	Thank you, good manager. Today, then, we have on the agenda a reduction in excise duties on fuel to the European Union's minimum rate. In the meantime, we know that Kaja Kallas woke up, said he was going to study Latvia's experience. Is there any data and feedback on whether Kaja Kallas has learned anything from Latvia's experience and whether he is going to see that heiki Kranich and Valdo Randpere, from the Reform Party, are here today, that they might also want to support this bill. Any feedback?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U11	Thank you. I can't count this as a procedural question. Okay. There's no more... Yeah, it is. A procedural question, Taavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U12	Yeah, thanks! Still, what a good colleague Jaanus Karilaid was talking about, this Latvian experience. As far as I know, there are not many fuel supplements used in Estonia. So, in fact, it should be the case that we examined something that does not exist in Estonia correctly, that our system is somewhat different. But it would still be really interesting to know whether, by studying something that doesn't exist, it was concluded that it still exists, or indeed the fact that it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U13	Thank you. I don't have any information on that. If you take this Pippi to see if this spunk is found or not, I don't have that information, I don't know it. Okay, no more procedural questions. Now it is so, good colleagues, that we have delivered one draft decision and, in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. And now we've come to the presence control. I repeat that at the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu there is a quorum of the Riigikogu when more than half of the Riigikogu is present. That's what § 76 says. During the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, the presence will also be checked before the vote if a good fellow official so requests. This is § 77 (3). And for information, in the absence of a quorum, the extraordinary session ends automatically. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-17_U14	25 members of the Riigikogu registered, 76 are missing. Dear colleagues, since there is not more than half of the Riigikogu, this means that our extraordinary session has ended. Thank you.
