ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the seventh plenary session. It is now possible for members of the Riigikogu to hand over drafts and questions. Please! Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a situation where Russia has triggered a war in Ukraine, where the bombing of cities and villages has caused a humanitarian disaster and where the President of Russia has also threatened NATO Member States, we must also focus attention on what is happening in his own country. In addition to the readiness of the armed forces, the protection of the population in the event of military aggression is equally important. The protection of the population has remained largely on paper in Estonia, and in Estonia there is not even a shelter for war on constitutional institutions, not to mention placing the entire nation in shelters. Estonia's liquid fuel supply is largely held abroad and cannot be brought to Estonia in the event of a maritime blockade. The Estonian Stockpiling Centre is at an early stage of its work. The state's food supply amounts to 1400 tonnes, which covers the population's food needs for only three days. A significant increase in Estonia's preparedness for crises has become inevitable and, in this context, we are asking the Prime Minister to answer questions concerning our country's readiness to protect the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice. Secondly, the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Veterinary Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U5	You wanna hand it over? No more wishes. I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U6	Currently 69 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask some of your attention. In particular, we also have one item on the agenda before the agenda is adopted. More specifically, it is the case that our enquiries today are being postponed due to the illness of ministers. All of our points today, one, two and three, will be pushed to the future. With this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the seventh working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U7	With the result of 70, no respondents and no abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U8	Now, ladies and gentlemen, since we do not have any points on the agenda, we can go straight to the free microphone. So please, ladies and gentlemen, if you wish, you can also register after the hammer hit. Let's start with the free microphone. Peter Ernits first, please! [[A voice from the hall.]] You pushed too soon. I said, after the hammer hit. Please listen! It is possible to register after a hammer hit. You already pressed, and then I said after the hammer hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U9	Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U10	Excuse me, Mr. Ernits, for a moment! Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Good nationalists! If you believe the Kremlin rulers' story, Ukraine is brown and Europe is brown and you and I are, too, everything. While it has been said so far that we are Nazis, the Kremlin ruler believes that the rest of the lines, including the ladies and gentlemen, are on the left side and the empty middle lines are all Nazis. The attack on Ukraine, which is like a horse's dream that a neighbouring country with tanks and airplanes attacking a large country, is a reality. And the reality is that you have to destroy the Nazis, you have to put order in the house. If you look at the [presented] map in Moscow a few days ago, then there is Ukraine divided into three. Three. One [part] is the so-called Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic, but besides looking at this map, including [areas] by the Black Sea and Mariupol and so on, where the Russian troops are inside, so that in fact, the People's Republics of Kharkov, Dneprodzeržinski, Zaporožje, Nikolayev and Odessa will also be there soon. Here's the map. Ukraine will be ripped into three. Well, after Romania and the others, they'll see what to do with the western pieces. And it's not a horse's dream, it's a reality, a vision of Moscow, the Kremlin rulers. If [ask] why there are Nazis in Ukraine, I will read you a few points, and if you look in the mirror, you will understand that we are all Nazis here. That's it. In 2019, the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian raad, dared to adopt the Ukrainian language as a state language law. 2019. What have we done here? Pure brown country. 2020 next law, the transition of schools to Ukrainian language. Second law, 2020. Last year, 2021, a national military strategy that says that Ukraine is looking to NATO. And last year's national strategy on the democratisation of Crimea. Lands that have been areas of Ukraine. Well, now, this year, thinking President Zelenskiy would like to get the nuclear weapon back. And these are the arguments in the eyes of Moscow, the Kremlin lords, which is what makes this country Nazi. So if you look at what Estonia has done, we are a pure Nazi state. And the whole of Europe. What will happen when the war is won? Well, it's not a war, as you know, it's a special operation. What's next? Denacification follows. What is that? Well, whoever knows history remembers that in 1945 there were re-education camps. And there must have been five different categories of people. Some were those who immediately went under the Nuremberg tribunal and got the death penalty, but the weaker and the worse were the second category, the collaborators, Mitläufer, and the third, the lesser offenders, the Minderbelasts, this company. The same thing should follow when the so-called special operation is over. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And this is all happening today in Europe. The starting point is that one country, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, takes the power to destroy another country, to establish denacification camps and everything else. And the next republics of the Union...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U12	Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U13	Yeah?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U14	Five minutes is free microphone time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U15	Yes, thank you! That's all I want.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U16	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U17	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up a subject that I think we have been left under the radar in the light of this war. Of course, we all understand that sanctions against the aggressor must be one of the reactions of the Ukrainian war, and we all understand, of course, that the impact of these sanctions is bilateral. This parallel damage caused to the Western countries, including the Estonian economy, is something that simply needs to be tolerated. But with all this knowledge, all the governments of all countries still need to do everything in their power and, of course, we are also talking here about the Estonian Government to do everything in its power to mitigate these negative economic effects for its population and business. Today we are already seeing how the price of a litre of petrol is going to exceed the two euro limit. We have been in an energy crisis for months, where both gas and electricity prices have been at absurd heights, and when war breaks out, they are moving towards space. These measures, which have been taken, were perhaps even adequate in their time, but now the next steps need to be taken. I'm sure you can't just lay your hands around saying there's nothing you can do, just take it. Especially against the rise in fuel prices, the government should take decisive steps quickly and there is no need to figure out what to do here. There is a need to reduce excise duties on fuel to the minimum permitted in the European Union and, if necessary, even below it, because in an emergency we have to look at how our people are coping, not at what some regulations or directives say. But for the time being, excise duties should be reduced to a minimum and VAT on fuels to 5%. This would ensure that we get back somewhere closer to the euro from the price of two euro litres of petrol. And exactly the same must be done at the price of gas and electricity. The measures that have been taken must go further. We must achieve that Estonia, which is an electricity-producing country, sells electricity to its people not at some kind of manipulated or war-distorting absurd price, but at essentially the cost of production. This war will continue for a long time, and this war may also expand. If, in the first few weeks or months, we let our economy get stuck because the government simply does not make decisions, we do not have the shaky and the ability to endure this long conflict. In this sense, I do not understand how it is possible not to react to the price race we see. It makes all our people poor, and it makes us poor, or it bankrupts our companies, it kills our export capacity. My suggestion is that, in any case, the government should immediately come to the Riigikogu with a reduction in excise duty and VAT [proposal] and, if necessary, with compensation mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U18	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the unity of the Western world, the sanctions on Russia and the arms assistance to Ukraine, Putin's aggression has not stopped. The President of the Russian Federation has a plan that he seems to be pushing through at all costs. Once again, we are faced with the humane satisfaction logic of the West with Russian brutality and brutality. The Western world must not be a victim, but a protector who dares to face injustice and who opposes it. Sanctions have a devastating effect on Russia, but not on the dictator in the war. People in Ukraine are dying more and more and more brutally. The Ukrainian army, the volunteers, the people stand for their freedom in an incredibly powerful and persistent way. The vast majority of the Western world's perception today is made up of front announcements and heroic resistance, which the media is rife with. Alongside this, however, there is the pain of the Ukrainian people. The death of children, the death of mothers. The hope of getting away with loved ones is shattered by a bullet or a main beam. We know how Putin's army behaves in situations where they cannot advance in battle. The next tactic is bombing, bringing the people to their knees, taking access to food, water, heat and medical care. This non-human approach has been used in all wars where Russia has not been able to achieve what it wants. There is a humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, which is expanding at wild speed into a very tragic episode in European history. This isn't a spot to watch. Putin's testifying to armed forces. I expect our Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs to act to explain this logic. We do not want to read in the papers what the Minister of Defence personally thinks, but we want to see that this is Estonia's position and that it will become the position of Europe and the whole Western world as a matter of urgency. There must be more intervention, whether it be the sharing of U.S. intelligence at the time of its emergence, the closure of airspace, the airstrip or something else. The force needs counter-force. I would also like to ask why we have only frozen Putin's assets. In general, freezing means restricting the use of assets for a period of time. What effect are such sanctions expected to have if the oligarch or Ukrainian war decider knows that one day he will receive the money with interest again? These assets in hundreds of millions of euros worldwide must be confiscated, taken away and directed to support Ukraine in the war or for later reconstruction. I am sure that the mothers and children of Ukraine want to know why it must be that, at the same time as the devastating iron falls over their heads, Putin's co-responsible for military aggression spends a pleasant time with their families in European countries. I think that this question, too, deserves to be answered, not even in words, but in deeds. Europe and NATO should not give Putin a chance to succeed on any issue, both in the war between economies and in the war with weapons. Otherwise, our eastern neighbor will only be assured that, no matter how difficult, he can carry out his next plan. What is happening in Ukraine also determines the future of Estonia's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U20	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, good Estonian people and all my co-workers! Crazy times need clear phrases. We must be more resolute in our own statements and also in our thoughts, because, unfortunately, our work here is to explain why nothing can be done. The first thing I would like to pay attention to is that it is time to ban the wearing of Georg's tape at public events and also the Z marking. I don't know, maybe we can make a decision before 9 May. But, good citizens, you, too, who notice injustice, be good and act accordingly. It was strange to listen to all these sanctions, and yesterday, looking at the 'Actual Camera', I saw that sanctions were whipping the Russian economy, which is why we ourselves are already undermining economic sanctions. It sounds like we're going to pinch that big grizzly quietly now. No! Sanctions must be noticeable and effective so that the will of all those who support the Putin regime with tacit approval disappears. So they can feel it's complicated. And here comes the other place. It's not the Russians' fault, it's just one guy, it's not that easy. If, after all, all this hysteria has been built up with their silent approval, it must be treated as such. Yes, we know that now more than 2,500 of them have arrived in Finland with the tourist visa holder, and they are also constantly arriving in Estonia, and they claim that they are currently fleeing from this regime. Many of them have worked in the same companies as Gazprom or anywhere else. They have received these benefits from there, and now they just want to come to Europe when the good time is running out. That maybe I'm even called a political refugee! It was particularly funny to hear us, like the Ministry, send us a message that we still treat them all as countrymen. Are we really going to treat all these people as fellow countrymen who, in the so-called feim procurement operation of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, where he presented our Republic on the anniversary, birthday, a question as to whether Russia or Ukraine was responsible for the Ukrainian war, said below in the commentary that too few of these banderans, Estonians, were still defeated. It is, in fact, a conscious incitement to hatred between nations. This was also discussed in Tallinn City Council. I think that the Riigikogu also considers that such a man does not qualify as the chairman of the Riigikogu Finance Committee. Crazy time needs clear people, clear, clear thinking. What, then, is our message? Those people who cannot actually choose between Estonia or Russia should not be in our leading positions. And such cleaning must also be done elsewhere, because we know that SMS is already being sent to the people of Estonia: please inform us if you are discriminated against. It was extremely appalling to listen to a Latvian representative in Paris who said that he opposed Putin, but he also opposed discrimination against Latvians in Latvia. When we later asked him where and who had been discriminated against, he sneaked away. At this point, I'd like to quote a classic. The quote begins: "Feed the chick all you want, still weeping towards the Kremlin. " The quote ends. The quote has been announced by freedom fighter Ivan Squirrel. So, we ban Georgi's tape, we are vigilant and attentive, no matter who is next to us, and it is time to end political correctness. There are co-responsors. Not one short hobbit in Russia has actually taken this military aggression alone, but it has the overwhelming support of the people. And as a reminder: if we have looked at which former republics of the Soviet Union have the greatest support for this little gnome, this huilo," then of course it is Estonia. Believe it or not, that's the way it is. We're actually in a difficult situation. Slava Ukrainiani! Putin, huilo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U22	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U23	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! We are in a situation today where mainstream media has basically been implemented before Kaja Kallas' government in order to reduce and ridicule the opposition's efforts in some way to balance the country. Why am I making such a tough statement? This is because of recent events. In fact, on March 2, ETV broadcast the show "The Spectator," where Piia Osula had done a story about how the alternative characters became Moscow-minded overnight. The experts there said that [their] individuals' statements and video clips came from all of Russia's troll factories. And quite surprisingly, I found that I was also included in this story in Moscow's pro-Moscow list, because I had written in social media the story "The greater threat of the war in Ukraine knocks on our door." Of course, "The Spectator" made me a small paragraph, and literally the text was as follows. "At the same time, Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, says that the danger greater than the Ukrainian war is knocking on our door, pointing out that Estonia would participate in some kind of secrecy with the WHO on the subject of korona, with the blessing of the European Commission. It may even seem comical, but according to expert Peter Tali, it's far from funny." First of all, the claims here are wrong. I haven't said a word about the corona in this writing. I was talking about future pandemics. I also wanted to meet Piia Osula, the author of this story, but of course I was not given this opportunity because Mihkel Kärmas called me personally, asked me what I did not like, what was wrong and so on, and raised the tone. I still wanted to understand how I was involved in the Kremlin in this story. In my opinion, it is not possible to exclude the national processes taking place in the Riigikogu if the government wishes to surrender its rights to the European Commission in the negotiations with the WHO in order to resolve future pandemic issues. But in the end, he still saw that he couldn't beat me very easily, and then he offered a chance to, uh, okay, do a little story and I'll read it on the air. I also asked if you were referring to public opinion. But who are these people? Read some names and we'll be specific. The first was Kaja Kallas, second was Raul Rebane, third was Peter Tali, who was an expert. And it was clear to me who was coordinating this anti-Kremlin campaign. I prepared my story and found it appropriate to reflect it in such a way that Estonia participates in the WHO negotiations with which the WHO imposes future obligations on us, and that is why we are forced to submit to what the European Commission has agreed on for us. Then I asked again how it would be possible to link this issue to the Kremlin mindset. The answer came very quickly. Mihkel Kärmas said they could refer to this piece of writing, but they're not going to read it. It's more of a political statement, even less a meeting with a "Spectator" journalist. I sent a new letter in return: what you [meaning] about what was written by me is more my political statement, and I asked again what is the connection with this Kremlin mindset. And then it took a longer time to answer. Finally, he announced that all right, we're going to read some sentence in "The Spectator" on Wednesday, but otherwise people can read it on the web somewhere else. Basically, "The Spectator," the flagship of the investigative press, is completely rusty and still barely on the surface only because there is something positive coming from there. But that's not fair about mainstream media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U24	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U25	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, There are complicated times, and there are so many tensions. I have the government's proposal that some of the tensions in society should be eliminated. As you can see, I am not going to talk like previous speakers about war or activities in Ukraine or the activities of the Russian Federation, but about what we ourselves can do to alleviate tensions in society. I have an appeal to the members of the Central Party Group. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party submitted a draft to the Riigikogu several weeks ago [which proposes] to the government to put an end to the COVID restrictions. Although the Centre Party has occasionally tried to give the impression that they would be interested in ending these restrictions, for weeks now, if I have wanted to put this draft on the agenda of the Social Committee, I have not received any support for it. But if we cannot do this in Parliament, I hope that this will be done in the government, because we all understand that these restrictions will no longer play any role today. If we look at what they are all about, the reality is that in the morning people are going to work on public transport. It may take a short time, but it may take an hour. They're going home together tonight. They can work next to each other all day long, there are no restrictions, but if they wanted to go out for lunch together, it's forbidden by today's restrictions. Or if they want to go to the theater, a movie or dinner tonight, it's forbidden. And, of course, we'll have to wrap it up by 23:00 at the latest. But we know that the virus hasn't asked [one] for any time at the moment. We understand that these restrictions, which are still in force today, are absolutely pointless and have no connection to hospital coverage or serious illness. These proportions are quite different when they were in the fall. We have had the right debate with the Prime Minister on several Wednesdays on this subject, and the honourable ruler has said that we would give a false signal to society if we were to lift these restrictions now and say that there is no problem. I disagree. In my opinion, restrictions that do not really regulate anything in society give the absolutely wrong signal and are unreasonable. We need a right that can live by and that affects us. By restricting the fundamental rights of people with unreasonable restrictions in the current context, we will certainly achieve nothing and this will cause unnecessary trouble, which is certainly not necessary in the current context. I very much hope that in the context of this new, exploding crisis, the government will be able to resolve the previous crisis as a matter of urgency and will also overcome the dog's tail so that we can get past these pointless restrictions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U26	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U27	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to continue the story of Priidu. I am simply asking all the decision-makers today that if there were 3,000 spectators in Saku [The Great]hall, in recent days there have been events and singing events in different regions to support Ukraine, it was thought that there were at least 30,000 of us together in this very Liberty Square, not to mention that there were [conferences] on the weekend in Tartu, Viljandi and elsewhere, then there are no restrictions. As a sportsman, I ask. On Thursday of this week, the World Ski Cup will begin in Otepää. There is a limit of 6,000, everyone in the open air must have a corona pass, everything checked, you must not have had more than nine months since the last vaccination or six months after the disease. If we believe that a corona passport or disease prevents you from being contagious, why do we need this restriction? Today, the people of Estonia are already under enough stress. To go enjoy a good big sports event in Otepää... Today there is a situation where tickets have been sold out by Saturday and it is not possible to go there. I always wonder how these decisions are made. One minute it's allowed, the other minute it's not allowed. There could still be an agreement that our people can go to foreign events and enjoy them, so they are cultural or sporting events. The second issue is our energy security. Yesterday, who was watching television, [I saw] that Mrs Samson spoke about the state of the energy market. As we know, today 40% of the needs of the European energy market depend on Russian gas and oil. But yesterday, the TV interview came out so we should look very clearly at all our options. We have oil shale power plants. Of course, it was a very big surprise when I read last week that since spare parts come from Belarus or Russia, maybe there is a problem now. I believe that this problem will be solved quickly and that these spare parts can be produced either in Estonia or somewhere else. But it is clear that I believe that there should be representatives of the government in the Riigikogu today to talk about how the oil shale ovens that have been shut down or are planned to stand up in the coming years are being repaired. We must achieve that we produce electricity for the needs of the entire Estonian state [to cover]. I don't know how many people know that, but oil shale oil actually produces gasoline. Yes, this petrol is not so-called pure petrol that can be put in the car, but it is actually sent out of Estonia to factories where it is cleaned, and then it can also be put in cars. Now is the time for the country to look very clearly at all the possibilities of supporting domestic consumers. It is very easy to say that for all those who, for example, do not heat their homes with gas, we can shut down the gas tap. Got it. Today's situation requires tough decisions and maybe we should turn off the gas taps. But then it also means that the state has to find a solution to how the 200,000 homes that today come from hot gas boilers can switch to alternative heating. I have suggested that we start by preventing private consumers from paying VAT on solar panels, air-to-air or air-to-water heating systems in order to be able to start [transition]. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U29	President-in-Office of the Council. Time is like there's no time. And when I say that there is no time, I mean that I went through the publications of our northern neighbours, among other publications, this morning, and I mean the press publications. There was an authoritative person who, in my opinion, has occurred in the past with very adequate security policy analyses. He says that Finland cannot spend any extra minutes preparing for war, one day whining and complaining. I think this is exactly what we should hear now from the politicians of our government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, but also from the Head of the Riigikogu. We do not have any extra days to prepare Estonia inevitably for the challenges ahead. Our party already put very seriously on the agenda in the previous government to eliminate our screaming military power gaps. Unfortunately, we have not found any allies in their liquidation. We have development plans. The development plan is for ten years, then let's worry, then let's see, then let's do, let's talk to the allies. It won't be ten years now. We are seeing war as it threatens to expand at any moment. There is already talk of a possible attack on Moldova. There is already talk of possible interference by Belarus in the military conflict. Russia is already threatening that arms transfers to Ukraine will be regarded as an act of hostility leading to sanctions. Following this threat, Poland obviously gave up its MiG and Su aircraft to Ukraine, even though the United States of America put a great deal of pressure on the Polish Government to do so. Romania has given, at least so the Russians claim, some of its airports to use Ukrainian aircraft and airmen so that they can land safely, refuel, arm and re-mission after the battles have been carried out. This, too, has been seen by the Russian side as an act of hatred and threatened to punish Romania for it. The war could be spreading at any moment. Russia has threatened Finland. Finland's accession to NATO will lead to measures by Russia, including military measures. And now I am quoting another Finnish security analyst, a military man who says that it is not a question of Finland when preparing Finland for a possible war, but it is a question in Estonia. Kyse is not Suomenesta, kyse is Virosta, speaking Finnish. I hope you don't mind me using foreign language. It's basically not acceptable in this remote control, but for the accuracy of the quote, I'll do it. And he'll explain what he means. He says very clearly that Estonia's defence capacity is so inadequate that Finland will lose its southern wing with the possible protection of Estonia against attacks from here within a few days. This is the security policy assessment of Finnish military personnel. We can walk from foot to foot here and talk about how our security is guaranteed and nothing threatens us, we bring in 800 British soldiers and more planes have been brought in. It is, of course, a move in the right direction, but it does not solve the problem we have. Our problem now is that the government, led by the Reform Party, does not agree to make an additional budget, does not agree to borrow even a billion or a half billion euros, so that Estonia's defence capabilities are immediately, quickly and credible [to increase]. To raise our defenses to levels where we won't collapse in the first few days. It's got kyse in it. Kyse is Virosta. The question is Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-07_U30	There's no more calls. With this, we've exhausted the free microphone nicely, and I wish everyone a nice evening. The sitting is adjourned.
