ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! May I have your attention, please? Before I begin today's sitting, allow me, on behalf of the entire Riigikogu, to express my deep condolences to the President of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, whose father, our longtime colleague in the Riigikogu, left yesterday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that inflation in Estonia is high, 12.2% last year. In the last quarter, wages increased by an average of 7.3%, but house building prices increased by 10% in Estonia. During the last 12 years, the price of home sales in Estonia has increased by 156% and rents by 171%. At the same time, wages have increased by 92% on average, which means that the home has become more and more unattainable for many people. Consequently, as the problem is great and Ukrainian refugees must also be accommodated somewhere, the movement of labour in Estonia is deteriorating. This affects regional economic development in particular, but it affects the livelihood of Estonian people and families. Consequently, the Social Democrats have questions in the form of an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. What is the government going to do to alleviate the problem of home availability, so that there is no regional problem for people about home availability, so that rents or contributions are not collected, money is not collected at the expense of families with children, at the expense of children, at the expense of their education of interest? And how do we solve this problem in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U3	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! I was present yesterday at the special session of the Riigikogu Anti-Corruption Commission and it seemed that I was back in time about 1970 when the NKVD interrogation methods were there. Kert Kingo had been invited to explain the cost benefits to Kert Kingo on the basis of a complaint. The complaint, as such, was only received by Kingo at the hearing because of the big grudge. He was required to make statements without first being able to examine the complaint. Since he initially did not want to do so, Valdo Randpere, a former Communist member of the Riigikogu, introduced KGB methods and said that if you don't talk, it will get worse, we will take it to the police. Threatening. Nice. In addition, Valdo Randpere is also the biggest liar in the Riigikogu, because he told the Evening Light that he was not... Kert Kingo refused to give a statement. Kert Kingo spoke for 10 to 15 minutes. But that's it. As the subject of the cost benefit came to the discussion, I will present a draft to ensure that the costs associated with the work of the members of the Riigikogu are no longer included in the leasing of vehicles. It must be paid out of your own pocket, just as the Estonian Conservative People's Party does. In addition, as the cost benefits have gone unattended, EKRE draws attention to all other cost benefits. Does Valdo Randpere, who owns real estate in Thailand, go there for expenses? Does Yoko Alender basically go to Sweden every week for cost benefits? Why does the Reform Party have phone bills amounting to EUR 1700? We're gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U5	I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and we will decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U6	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U7	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of the Member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, and to the continuation of legal proceedings against him. I will introduce you to the procedure for handling this point before the Chancellor of Justice comes to the remote. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise will report for up to 15 minutes. The members of the Riigikogu will then be able to put an oral question to the Chancellor of Justice. And then Mikhail Korb, a member of the Riigikogu, will be able to speak for up to five minutes, after which negotiations will be opened, where all members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak if they so wish, and after the negotiations have ended, we will also have to vote through this point. So, Chancellor of Justice, the Chair of the Riigikogu is yours. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U8	Yeah, thanks for interpreting my procedural question with such an epithet as "worry." I'm not worried, I'm just asking. You said Mikhail Korb could speak for five minutes. But is it possible for him to take three extra minutes, just like after the speakers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U9	No, it's not. It is governed by § 151 (4) of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, Chancellor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, § 1 (3) of the Chancellor of Justice Act and § 3826 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I propose that the Riigikogu give its consent to the removal of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Mikhail Korb and to the drafting of an indictment and the continuation of criminal proceedings against him. The State Attorney General made a request to this effect to the Chancellor of Justice on 17 March this year. It is clear from the application of the Prosecutor General that a member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, has had suspicions of committing the criminal offence provided for in § 2981 (1) of the Penal Code. It's a power trade. The substance of the matter, as the law requires, that I report it very briefly to you, is as follows. A detailed description of the content can be found at the request of the Attorney General, which is attached to the proposal. In short, the Attorney General claims that Mikhail Korb promised Hillar Teder on 9 February 2020 to use his influence over the Mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, in order for the third party, Porto Franco, to obtain an unjustified advantage from the public interest authority, Mikhail Kõlvart. This concerned the price of the service and the question of whether Porto Franco should establish trips to his own country or whether it should be possible to build them on the city's land at a lower price than originally proposed. According to the law, the Chancellor of Justice must not, when proposing to the Riigikogu, depart from the content of suspicion. The Chancellor of Justice must examine the files, but it must not assess the evidence gathered or take a position as to whether the person is guilty or not guilty. These decisions are made only by the court. The Chancellor of Justice will look at the procedure as a whole, with a view to determining whether it could be a 'fated procedure', such as a procedure biased for political purposes. Having examined the files of the criminal file, as well as the surveillance permits, I assure you: we did not find a sign that this was obviously an unjustified procedure or a politically biased procedure. But once again, that does not necessarily mean that man is guilty. When consenting to prosecution of a member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, in the circumstances described above, and in order to continue criminal proceedings, the Riigikogu does not decide on the issue of guilt. I would point out that, in accordance with § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no one may be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has taken effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U11	Good Chancellor of Justice, the members of the Riigikogu do not seem to have any questions for you. Thank you for this introduction. It is now possible for Mikhail Korb, a member of the Riigikogu, to come before us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Undoubtedly, Estonia is the rule of law, and the characteristics of the rule of law are the procedures and rules that are clearly laid down by law. Of course, in the rule of law, everyone has the opportunity to defend themselves and their views within the framework of the law. Of course, I would like to take this opportunity too. But I cannot do that in this Chamber, not through press conferences or press releases, but only in the Chamber of the Court, where I can oppose the accusations and arguments brought to me by the prosecutor's office as well as my arguments and explanations. I'm sure the public wants to know what happened two years ago. Are the accusations and reproaches of the prosecutor's office correct or not? It's been 15 months since we handed over the suspicion. There would have been quite a lot of work to be done in that time, certainly to argue at least one instance. But time is running, and we're still here today to take away the immunity of the ambassador. However, the removal of the ambassador's immunity has a role to play in the legal process. As I mentioned, I am interested that the accusations that have been brought before me will find the most rapid way to the trial and to finding out the truth. This Monday, I turned to my group to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Today, I also appeal to the entire Chamber to support the withdrawal of the immunity of my envoy and I will vote in favour of this proposal myself in this Chamber today. All this in order to get to the truth as quickly as possible. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U13	Okay, I'm opening negotiations. Mr Reinsalu is a procedural, not a negotiation request.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President. The proposal of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to remove the immunity of the ambassador, which is marked for internal use until the Chancellor of Justice's presentation in the Riigikogu, has been presented to us correctly. Understood. It has been pointed out here that the annex is the application of the State Attorney General on nine pages, which is actually the core of this proposal. Since it's not in the back of the file, where can we get to know it, with this nine-page attorney general's application?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U15	This supplement is available to you in the electronic [preliminary] processing system of the Riigikogu, as a short version of EMS. There it is available to members of the Riigikogu. Okay, no more procedural questions. We need to vote this point through. Before going to the vote, I must make a procedural clarification concerning Mikhail Korb himself. In particular, § 151 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures tells us that if the proposal concerns the consent of a member of the Riigikogu to prepare an indictment act, the questions are not addressed to this member of the Riigikogu, which we have already passed, and the second half of this sentence says that the member of the Riigikogu himself will not vote. Mikhail Korb, the fact that you have said here that you are in favour of it, unfortunately, in your case, this procedure must now be limited. Unfortunately, you cannot vote on this decision yourself. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to give his consent to remove the immunity of the Riigikogu member, Mikhail Korb, and to continue the proceedings against him. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U16	With the result of 82 votes against, 0, abstentions 1, the Chancellor of Justice expressed his support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U17	Let us move on to our second item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposals to the Government of the Republic to support the beachmen" submitted by the Isamaa Group. Please waitress the Riigikogu speech chair Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to present to you a proposal by which the Government of the Republic should lay down a beach, a specific concept in the context of the beach, to reach out to the development of a beach support programme, which already provides resources in the draft national budget for 2023 and which will be used by a steering group involving representatives of the coastal communities. Actually, this initiative, if I may say so, is a long one. Well, he's not exactly the same length as the Estonian sea border, 3800 kilometers, but this story goes back 20 years. We have also involved parties in the drafting of this draft decision. It is precisely the Maritime Advisory Board and the House of the Coastal People that have provided input to address this problem and to make this issue clear. We have also looked at the context of the development plan for transport and mobility in 2021 as the basis documents.2035. This highlights the maritime objective of an attractive coastal and tourist environment, which should encourage maritime tourism and local entrepreneurship. There is no doubt that the story of this bill has been the first launch bang years ago, when a clear and bold step has been taken in the context of the permanent settlement of the smaller islands. Perhaps the framework of such equal treatment has been broken, if I may say so. It has been decided right here in this Chamber that residents of the smaller islands with permanent residence have the right to go to the sea to fish with a gillnet, if that is the wish of the resident. Now, in fact, at this competitive moment in the mainland and on inland waterways, or on beaches and inland waterways, there is a problem that all those who are in the immediate vicinity of the water or in coastal villages have been placed to compete with the whole wide public in applying for and obtaining their gillnet permits. It has become clear over time that, unfortunately, our excellent e-state development makes it possible to apply digitally, but not everywhere there is this good internet connection to be equal to those who have a very good connection. The Chancellor of Justice has also repeatedly emphasised that we cannot only build a digital state, but we should also build a country on paper that a person who does not have these digital skills or who does not want to be a part of that digital state should also be able to compete equally. All of this has led to the fact that these fishing permits have often been issued and that the person who has a farm, living with the water directly adjacent to that beach village, is not in a position to obtain the right to fish. Undoubtedly, the basis of all this can be our joint discussion, debate over it. We need to formulate and lay down a beachman as a legal term as a right to apply for a recreational fishing permit. We have written in the draft that the beachman is living in a beach village, a beach house and a person holding a seat and a boat or their right of use, who has registered his residence in that beach village and has been granted the corresponding status by the local authority. I've also been in contact with small island communities. In fact, there is a problem that maybe the role of local authorities in issuing this licence should be reduced in time and space. Is that the best solution? The problem, I understand, is, as usual, when we talk about the digital state, the interaction and integration of databases. The problem is that when you log in with an ID-card, the system does not automatically understand that it is a beachman or a permanent resident of a small island, and it cannot move forward without more bureaucracy. But it is certainly not possible to separate the local government from this process or the will of the performers. The local government knows the local conditions best. This is why we also see the role of local government, as it has been before. The cultural aspect has certainly been highlighted in this discussion. It should be said that the drafters do not see that recreational fishing rights should become a direct income element in fishing. We know we have professional fishermen and recreational fishermen. Obviously, we can see that the right to recreational fishing is enshrined in this way and should continue to be enshrined in the future if these changes are brought to life, that recreational fishing fish must not be sold, that is to say, it must not generate revenue. But fish can and should be deserved, whether to promote a food culture or profit from it. Surely here we do not want any change in the political fishing sturgeon. But the lack of beach life policy is certainly one of the important elements why we are in this Chamber today with this draft. Indeed, different measures have been put in place when we are talking, for example, about the Leader facility, which should help make life in coastal villages better and also provide additional support to boost economic activity. However, it is precisely the emergence of an internal financing facility that we believe would be very important. So, this is a brief summary: to lay down the concept, give the local government the right and also put in place a support measure, i.e. a beach support programme. I'm kind enough to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U19	Heiki Hepner starts with them. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday we listened here to the Minister for Rural Affairs' review of last year's activities and he repeatedly stressed that rural development must be fully promoted and a number of different methods should also be used to this end. On the other hand, when he was asked about the beachman's or beach dweller's support, he did not want to take a stand, said that it was not his area of administration, and tried to circumvent it. You mentioned yourself that you could support it. Whose administration would it be then? In order to have political clarity here too, should it be the Minister for Rural Affairs, the Minister for Rural Development, or is it the Minister for the Environment? Or who should finally stand up for promoting this rural area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U21	Thank you. A very correct point in the form of a question. Indeed, we live in a country where the Minister for Rural Affairs has professional fisheries and recreational fishing is related to the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. Now, in addition, there is sometimes a general issue of fish stocks, which we are always talking about in the context of traps. I don't understand it. We have few fish stocks and many traps on the market and, unfortunately, we have not reached that point either in order to formulate this right. Perhaps it would be wise for the state to dispose of a certain number of traps. If they have been placed on the market, it must be viewed with a sharper view to the conservation of fish stocks and it must probably be less caught. One of the important conditions for reducing catches is that fishing rights in the context of fishing gear are not so high. Who in particular should be responsible for this area? I think that, in fact, is an even wider question. Here too, the Minister of Public Administration may have his own subject in a drawer. After all, the whole subject of the small islands, and the subject of it, we have in our respective ministerial portfolio, and he has to deal with the small islands' life situation. This shows that it is not possible to put regional policy issues in a single drawer; these are the cross-cutting issues. This requires, above all, the will in this Chamber to formulate these issues, to find the relevant law points in the legislation and to give a rule of responsibility and authority, who reports to us and where we are accountable. I think the Minister for Rural Affairs is very familiar with this issue, or at least if the Minister does not know, his officials in the house know what is going on in this sector. After all, these answers are often in the authorities, just as they are in the procedure for this draft. This idea is good in itself, but we do not support it now because it needs to be discussed in the fisheries strategy. So we often get there with these initiatives in Parliament that there is some sort of large-scale strategy and a set of strategics somewhere. Well, I'd think those strategists would actually be sitting in this hall. They have received a mandate from the people to set the life and the circumstances of Estonia and, as required, to try to vote through whether or not it will become a strategic approach to ministries. Here begins, and not even from here, but from the beach village where people see a real problem and offer solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U22	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U23	Thank you, dear waitress. This issue of the definition of beach at law level is not just a matter of fishing to ensure reasonable access to fishing for residents and farmers living in small islands or islands and on the beach. It is also a regional policy issue, it is a security policy issue, and it is a cultural issue. It's been dealt with years ago, but it's a dead end. Now we have come to a specific proposal and definition, which I believe is absolutely necessary and also reasonable. But, as I understand it, the ambassadors of the government coalition in the Commission did not have much enthusiasm for supporting it. Was there a debate in the Commission on the alternative solution? Or is the current situation satisfying these ambassadors, and they find that everything is very well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U24	Yeah, well, the good questioner knows very well that the Commission is where the debate is and that the Chamber will be decided. It is true that this time the Commission was also trying to decide, although it is as if this issue should not be decided by the Commission in the light of our rules of procedure and work. But it was clear that there were both supporters and opponents. And it seems to me that these boundaries do not run here on a coalition basis. There are certainly ambassadors who think that we really need to move forward on this issue, but there are also those who think that this will create some kind of unequal treatment. How, then, can the person who is here in Tallinn, for example, who does not live in a beach village, carry out recreational fishing? Well, that's where we get to culture. After all, there are some ambassadors among us who say that the gillnet is not a recreational fishing vessel. Maybe it's okay, maybe it's okay. I guess that's the point. That's how we get to this culture, which, in the end, should catch a recreational fisher. Then we get there when we say we're giving an advantage to a person living in a beach village. It could be such an ethical and cultural approach, because he lives in a beach village, he keeps the beach village culture, he actually has to give the public space a chance to move on the shoreline there, he actually has to carry it into a general plan when he builds his own boat shed, he has to talk to everyone about whether it spoils someone's view or restricts anyone's mobility. So, in fact, there are a lot of obligations imposed on those people who are in contact with the coastal areas, but on the other hand they have no rights, just as they do not have any. Even if friends come over and say, "Hey, let's go inside the fishing net before Midsummer Day, maybe tomorrow we can get some fish soup," there's no practical way. Because if, for example, it was probably December 1st, if it falls early at 9:00 or 10:00 in the morning, or even at some time it was 12:00 in the morning, and if you aren't a worthy opponent in the round of quick fingers there, then basically you won't get that right. I think it is also, in a sense, a question of dignity. If you have obligations to the state and other public, you should also have two weeks, for example, or even a week, to apply for a gillnet permit. The problem was that then someone's right would be taken away, and we wouldn't be able to add more gillnet permits. True, the stock is at risk and the transfer is a problem in itself, but then it is as if someone who may not have the right of the beach is taken away from someone who cannot and will be deprived of it. But, well, the world is unfair in that it's probably never gonna get to the green branch. You gotta make an effort, you gotta find yourself a friend beachman or, better yet, you gotta be a beachman yourself. In the context of the small islands, we have not seen this problem, I do not know why we will see it here. But it is undoubtedly a cultural question, just as it is in a certain sense an ethical question, and I think very much a community matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U25	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U26	We are the oldest local sea people in Europe who have preserved their culture, and this is the starting point for supporting beaching now. It is not a question of granting an advantage to recreational fishing permits, but of guaranteeing these people, indigenous communities, this right is guaranteed, just as it has been granted to residents of the smaller islands of permanent residence. The development plan for transport and mobility speaks with resounding words about the attractiveness of the coastal environment. However, we know that the trend towards permanent settlement today has reversed if we compare the displacement of people during our generation. What are the government's positions just as we know that the representatives of the government institutions were invited to the [debate], how were these resounding words from the development plan for transport and mobility to be put into practice as an alternative to the proposal of the Fatherland?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U27	Thank you, good questioner! Very correct point, indeed. In fact, in the Commission too, we have come to the point that this is not about granting an advantage but about giving it back. This has been historically, it has changed today, and the question is why it has changed in the first place. What solutions were proposed? The Leader measure has already been identified as a solution. There is money, European money, Estonian state money. Leader action groups have been set up and action groups put their own strategy in place, decide on what money is put on and not on. The company, the non-profit sector and the local government are involved and they have to decide how to implement these things. There is no doubt that Leader is one of the oldest and probably the most communal, sensible support mechanisms in the European Union that has been put into practice. But once again, my comment as a representative was that we, as the initiators of the draft, feel that there is little of it alone, because we live in a space and time in which the scattered population is declining. In fact, we also know that the whole fishing industry is ageing as well as the population, and that additional measures are needed to preserve this coastal culture, which is undoubtedly crucial for heritage culture in the Estonian landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U28	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Of course, I will say that the formal side of this draft has been extremely well chosen. Indeed, it is right to address the Government of the Republic with such a proposal. In terms of content, too, it is perfectly reasonable, understandable and, in my personal opinion, absolutely worthy of support. But now I'm gonna ask you as a practitioner. Knowing and knowing the government's handwriting and relatively little activity to deal with problem solving, how do you see that the big hall supports this bill, when could it be expected that the government would be able to develop and submit the corresponding bill for which term? Would our membership be where this bill might go? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U30	Thank you, good questioner! Well, in order to answer that question, there should be a psychic. But I'm sorry I'm not. Well, I'll give you an example in the context of the Nature Conservation Act. After all, we are discussing, and before this draft, we were discussing specific topics relating to the construction of the coastal area, the construction ban zone and the flood zone. Thankfully, this discussion has returned to the debate. Although this issue came to this Chamber and was not approved to be dealt with intensively in Parliament in the context of the drafting of the law, we discussed it in this category, that the Chancellor of Justice has nevertheless made it very clear that the legislator's idea probably needs to be clarified in the context of such a flood area and in the form of a water protection border. The way the Ministry interprets this is probably not the legislator's will. And, in a sense, indeed on the bank coast, to say that the flood zone border is what is, in a situation where there is a low sand behind, it is neither possible nor reasonable to treat it equally in the context of the legal provision. But the essence of the matter is that we also came to the point that [the question is] when then can we recast it in the legal key. And there's really no answer. Someday in the future, they say. This is the message that someday in the future. A lot of things are ever in the future. In fact, work would expect a little more specificity, because these are acute problems, they are not such ancillary activities that we are dealing with when we get the time, but in legislation it concerns property and all the things that concern property are protected by the Constitution. I think it is our privileged duty to deal with this acutely and immediately when there is a problem. So I don't know. Within this framework, we were given to realise once again that the issue of the beach is important and important, but this draft cannot be supported, but should be discussed in the strategic key to fisheries, whatever that means.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U31	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U32	Thank you. I have a few questions. First of all, the talk of a round of quick fingers was several years ago, but it doesn't apply for a long time. The Ministry of the Environment has its own website, where you go in and do [operations] in two minutes. Now some new website was made, which is a little more complicated. But basically, even now in April, more than 800 permits have been issued in Harjumaa, for example, and only less than 100 of them have been used up. So when a friend arrives, he'll be fishing with her tomorrow, although it could be even easier, of course. But I wanted to ask why these beachmen would only be from historical villages. We have new villages now. And second, why should these fishing permits be distributed through the municipalities? Because, like I said, actually, if we're not talking about a professional fisherman, it's pretty easy to get recreational permits. Why would it still go through the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U33	Thank you, good Henn! First of all, the quick fingers. Indeed, the question of a quick round of fingers is not acute when there are more permits than there are applicants. But we also have places where there really are fewer licenses on the market than there are applicants, and that's where this quick-fingered round of fingers starts, the guy. That's the deal. From this point of view, we are actually approaching. If we look at the situation of our fish stocks, we will also look proactively at this problem because sooner or later, we may be in a position, as you can see in this Chamber, to step by step, we will move in this direction, even in the area of professional fisheries, where we will introduce such provisions into the penal code that, if, for example, a professional fisherman violates fishing rules, the right to take away his fishing rights, perhaps also traps, fishing gear, is subject to coercion. So far, there has always been a discussion in the country as to whether or not fishing rights, fishing gear or fishing gear are immovable or whether or not they are comparable. Now we have taken a step towards saying that it is an alienated object. So in lawmaking, it takes its course. There is only one clear reason for this, I think we all know this: there are few fish stocks and fishing effort needs to be reduced to renew fish stocks. Now the other side, which is the role of local government and why we have so foreseen in this draft. Yes, we have seen this coming, but certainly this vision has not come, as has already been said, from the proposals of the Maritime Advisory Board, the House of the Coastal People. It is actually our desire to hold a debate here on this subject; this absolute monopoly of truth is obviously not in our hands, in the minds of the initiators. We should discuss, reach a specific position. But once again: if we formulate a beachman in the law, we are firmly convinced that the principle of subsidiarity is still crucial, in the sense that the local government must be able to formulate this provision of law. This is the right given to the local government and, according to regulation, we would see it that way. Now, how is it going to be in the context of the application? Whether an automatically communicating module is created with the residents' register and the same recreational fishing database, so when a person loggs in, the system tells him directly that bullets, good friend, you can't yet apply, wait, come back in a week, for example, right now you can't, the preferred round is for those who are defined as beach. But one must probably think in parallel that there are people who do not want to be part of the digital state, and then the question is how the local government can solve it in a non-digital way and do it as close as possible to the inhabitants of the coastal village.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U35	Good manager! Good waitress! How's that anyway? Well, a quick-fingered round of fingers, but right now I've got a penguin here watching that the gillnet promises are like getting a bog in Harjumaa, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U36	Thank you. Once again, I come back to that answer. Not only are we talking specifically about the sea, but we are also talking about inland waters, rivers and lakes. Once again, this is different from region to region. The issue of all fishing rights, well, I would say the lake, for example, how much fishing permits are issued there, is the result of monitoring data and histologists' work. Depending on the state of the stock, fishing rights will be issued accordingly. A few years ago, I think it was during the previous Riigikogu membership that the amendment was also introduced, so that the minimum time would not be one month when applying for a entanglement network. That time was one month long, you couldn't even apply for a gillnet for a shorter time. In fact, it also gave the general public a right, for example, if we take an inland waterway system where, for example, four gillnet permits have been issued per month, in one month, it can also be variable for months, so in some months three, four, then there are actually restrictions in it, there are spawning times where no fish can be caught. And we are actually going to arrive at a minimum reduction in time with this debate. I guess you could take a week or it was for two weeks, I can't even tell right now. This gave more people the opportunity to exercise this right. This was also a justification, because the need and desire were many times greater than the opportunity, which is why it was done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U37	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Andres! Here's the question. You have recently taken the initiative to make interesting proposals concerning the coastal people, and one of them is currently under discussion. But last week there was a general assembly of the Estonian islands. I was just going over the islands with board members who said that they had never heard of such a thing at all. In addition, your current proposal has not been discussed in the framework of the Estonian Island Assembly. There is also an island support group in the Riigikogu, but, as far as I know, this issue has not been discussed there either before you make your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U39	Thank you. Well, from the back to the front. Indeed, there is a support group, the name of this support group must be... Please, specify exactly what he sounds like! Probably not a small island support group, but a beach support group. Annely Akkermann is its leader, and she was also an alternate member of the Environment Committee at the table to discuss this subject with us. As far as islands are concerned, in the small islands of permanent residence, this issue has been a long time ago, I think it has worked for five years. How can it be a surprise that this is now about the greats in any other way? Or I didn't quite get it. I am sure that I have also been in contact with Mark Soosaar, who raises and takes the lead on the subject at the time, and I have spoken with Ingvar Saare, the former parish elder of Kihnu, who, in fact, is fully active in small islands to this day. I've been asking about this situation. I have also been in contact with local government leaders in my constituency, in the county, or with former local government leaders [and have studied] how they see this problem. So I don't want to accept this criticism. If any support group in Parliament wishes to discuss the draft that we have come up with, then I am completely open to proposals. Unfortunately, we do not put on the agenda of the support groups and the topics for discussion, for which the support group itself has formed itself and will say what subjects are to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U40	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U41	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the point is that the permit holder for the beach would be the local government. But has it also been discussed that all permits could be granted by the local authority and by a fisheries specialist who knows the local conditions best, that would be handled by the local authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U42	Thank you. Well, that is not the proposal we have made. But once again, as a topic of discussion, all environmental issues and issues relating to local life are acutely relevant today. We are talking about the environment in this Chamber every week, in a different key, is this a green turn or on some other issue, these great challenges. I think that environmental issues also exist in the local government, whether or not the situation with fish stocks in some inland waters, this information should always be there. Local authorities should also have the possibility to always have a say on the introduction side. The same example of Pärnumaa again: when the Sindi barrier was taken off the Pärnu River, it was also very local, a matter of local government, even though the river begins in a different county, Roosna-Allik. So these topics are both local, but the other way around, you could say, even global. And the local government certainly has a role to play there. How much more should be devoted to local authorities in the context of the issue of fishing rights, a debate and an opinion should also be sought from ministries. We haven't done that now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U43	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U44	Good manager! Good Andres! The draft provides that the coasters should enjoy an ex ante fishing right similar to that of the residents of the smaller islands of permanent residence. Does this include people living on the shores of the lake and on the riverbank, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U45	Yes, we are also dealing with inland waterways with this draft. Also [people living near them] are essentially beachmen. In formulating the concept of beach, whether the coastal community can only be on the seashore or be on Lake Võrtsjärv, well, it can be. Still can, and so he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, such a story that there is one question for each waitress to deal with this OE. Yeah. Okay, no more questions. Then we have exhausted the questions and will go to the presentation by the Committee on the Environment. It's made by Heiki Kranich. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U47	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft at two meetings of the Commission: 4 April and 12 April. Among the invited were representatives of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment, as well as Tarmo Kõuts, President of the Maritime Advisory Board, and Jüri Lember, Mayor of Kõinastu village. What's the truth? The fact was that Estonia is a very rich and distinctive country, despite its small size, and we have different support programmes, starting from Setumaa and ending with small islands, in the meantime there is both one and the other. Today we're on the issue of the Beachers. As far as the issue of the Beach is concerned, it is practical to look back a little bit in history. Until 2003, according to some changes, the coastal population was able to fish not only with a gillnet but also with a marginal trap, for example. The decisions were made by the local authorities. Fat blood was caused by the fact that several cities that were at the sea also designated as beach fishermen. Plus, people had a lot of blood because a number of holiday owners were granted the right to fish and also a number of foreigners who had bought a seaside property. It didn't satisfy all the local residents, especially the beachmen. In 2003, a fundamental change was introduced, which is more or less valid until today. But back to the bill. As the rapporteur said, there were a wide range of opinions in the Commission. This border certainly did not run between the coalition and the opposition. It was clearly acknowledged that this was not so much an economic activity, as the income of professional fishermen, for example, is often relatively modest, not to mention the subject of recreational fishing. There are essentially two problems concerning the draft. Firstly, the issue of fish stocks. In 2020, the Estonian Maritime Institute of the University of Tartu carried out a study "Adapting fishing effort to good environmental condition." The conclusion was that in Läänemaa, Hiiumaa and Saare county fishing effort should be reduced by 40%, in the Gulf of Finland and in Pärnu county, except for small islands, but five times in order to achieve good environmental status. Today's draft, in fact, in the current wording, would extend fishing rights in a situation where scientists have proposed five reductions in fishing effort in some regions at all. Yes, everyone in the Commission admitted that it was not an economic activity, but a cultural tradition. Such a cultural tradition always costs to preserve, but there is a question at the expense of what. If our fish stocks are in a situation where fishing effort needs to be significantly reduced, the granting of new authorisations would undoubtedly create a certain degree of clear disproportation. Yeah, there's a lot of solutions. There is a possibility that this same preference for beachfish could limit the fishing rights for gill nets in recreational fisheries. It is likely to be restricted to professional use. But it's a painful decision. And this decision will not be made in the Chamber or in the Commission with one snap. The second issue, which concerned this draft, was that its second point clearly refers to the state budget, already to the national budget of 2023. However, it is not possible to make such decisions in the middle of the year, as the state budget is already being drawn up, in this way. The representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs also claimed that the current allocation to coastal fishermen... [[Browse papers.]] I'll be right back... A third of the EMFF budget, or EUR 30 million. I don't have an overview of exactly where it's used. But the fact that beach fishing is purely for an orphan, I can't say. Consequently, the Commission did not form a single position. A decision was made to place the draft on the agenda at 4 p.m. on the 19th (the decision was consensual), to appoint me as the representative of the commission and to hold the final vote on the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U48	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U49	Good manager! Good waitress! If you take it so-called philosophically and in a large way that the inhabitants of the small islands with permanent settlements have this privilege, but to the beachmen you wouldn't want to give them, unless they happen to live on a small island with permanent settlement, has the coalition planned to start taking that privilege away from the inhabitants of the smaller islands with permanent settlements?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U50	That's a plan I've never heard of. And I will specify: I do not mind that, for purely cultural purposes, in order to preserve the beach, the coasters should be granted any additional special rights, but, as I said before, the question of who to do this is always left. The Ministry of the Environment can answer that question. And as far as I understood what the representative of the Ministry of the Environment said, Mr Andres, a good colleague, ironed that one day in the future, and who knows when, at least in the Commission, there was a promise that this issue would be dealt with. But neither can I answer who and when [doing something].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U51	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U52	Thank you. Good Heiki! I would still like to expand and narrow it down. In the case of the smaller islands with permanent settlements, as far as I am aware, fishing rights were not actually added, i.e. the state did not grant more fishing rights, but the constant size of fishing rights was what they were, and they simply spread on the basis of some principle. For the time being, the assumption is quick fingers, and under the new regulation, for example, two weeks for people who fall under the concept of beaching would be entitled to apply. In fact, this does not change the fishing effort. This has not been the intention of the initiators of the draft, but it is still the fact that the coastal person has the right to take on the net and go to sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U53	That is what you said in the Commission, and that is what I referred to here before, is that this resource or fishing opportunity should actually be cut, and within this clipped fishing right too, it must be decided how this will be resolved. But for that, we have such an excellent law as the fishing law. And we all have the right to initiate this amendment to the fishing law here. How exactly is this happening has never been a point of law. It is currently regulated by Government Regulation No 103 of 22 November 2021. However, the way in which it is likely to be decided by the government will remain in the future. But I agree with you. This fishing opportunity cannot be granted, due to the research already referred to above by the University of Tartu Maritime Institute, rather it should be cut. How do you do it so that the wolves ate, the sheep healthy and the beachmen alive? I don't have an answer to that today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U54	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll pick up where you left off. You said that, of course, we in this Chamber can play an active part in lawmaking and change laws or come up with initiatives. But did any of the Departments feel like they should show activity somehow? Indeed, this draft, too, does not require us to increase fishing effort, but really can be resolved very differently. Did some ministries come up with a positive idea at the committee meeting, or did they just say no to everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U56	I didn't hear you say anything. But, of course, for each initiative, everyone who has been invited and has been put in place has a certain responsibility for consideration. And that consideration we heard there in the first place. The people of the Ministry of Rural Affairs talked about the money allocated to the beachmen, as I said earlier, 30 million that will come from European funds. Well, at least I got a message from a representative of the Ministry of the Environment. In order not to be superficial, I'll say his name. It was Erki Tuusi, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment, from whom I heard at least the willingness to deal with the matter at ministerial level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U57	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I find this bill quite sympathetic and worthy of support. But I apologize for my ignorance. Perhaps you can enlighten me on the current right to fish for the residents of the smaller islands of permanent residence, which is intended to be extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U59	They shall have the right to fish with three gill nets. They have the right to catch... [[Browse papers.]] I'll be more specific. ... with a bottom line of up to 100 hooks, plus other recreational fishing gear, but these are gears that are rather similar to those of professional fishing. To give everyone three nets seems to me, frankly, to be overfished if you want to fish for your soup, so what are you doing out there with those three nets?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U60	Okay. No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U62	We open negotiations and negotiations, I recall, the representatives of the political groups and committees can speak. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The remoteness of public services and the remoteness of access to public services are undoubtedly a problem in the functioning of the state. We therefore need to think about how to minimise these problems, how to ensure that the pressure on people to leave is reduced, including in coastal areas. That is certainly the objective of this bill. This, of course, is not only a question of the even distribution of people, but also of culture, as we have already heard in this round of questions and answers. The Estonian coastal culture is the oldest in Europe and we are the oldest local coastal people in Europe who have preserved their language, culture and statehood. This culture must certainly be preserved, promoted and protected. The disruption of this culture would actually mean the loss of one part of our national culture. At the same time, this is a defence issue, a security issue, which is particularly on the agenda today, because if we have a country covered with a sufficiently uniform population, then security will also be greater and border guards, let us say, better ensured border surveillance. There's no doubt about that. What's the real problem? We already heard here in the round of questions and answers that we have certain strategies. In most cases, when attempts are made to change something and the government does not have this great enthusiasm, it is said that we are quietly hogging this problem in this strategy. When we listened to the Minister for Rural Affairs yesterday and asked questions, we heard how the Minister explicitly emphasised that rural development must be promoted, we must avoid having people move away from the country and ensure that Estonia is covered evenly with its inhabitants. On the other hand, when we tried to find out what concrete steps had been taken, he did not offer much. From the theme of beach, he slipped by smoothly and said it was not his responsibility. When we look at the development plan for transport and mobility for the years 2021-2035, in the maritime domain, this development plan sets out a clear objective: "The urban environment is attractive, encouraging the development of maritime tourism and local entrepreneurship and the transfer of marine culture. According to the development plan, "The major functions of the transfer are the preservation of the local environment, lifestyle and cultural heritage, the creation of jobs and the growth of people interested in maritime affairs, who will be working in the maritime sector in the future. Tourism and fisheries, which are interlinked through infrastructure and activities, are at the heart of coastal entrepreneurship. " Well, it's pretty wide open here. Indeed, it is worth emphasising this cultural side, lifestyle, tourism. By creating a living environment for permanent residents, we also support and diversify entrepreneurship, although today the purpose of this draft is... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U64	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U65	... directly is not the promotion of professional fishing. And what has, say, been considered relevant? Today, the Beach House estimates that culture is in danger of being destroyed. For years, the House of Coastal Folk has been legally seeking to define the concept of beachman, so that it extends to beachmen, and hence the extension of fishing rights that are now guaranteed in the small islands of permanent residence. Of course, it is to be welcomed that it is guaranteed on the smaller islands. Of course, in this debate too, we have heard that indeed, fish resources are a specific resource that cannot be consumed indefinitely, and the aim of this draft is not to increase catches, but when we approach here flexibly, it is possible to set limits in time. We heard it's been brought down that there are three gill nets and there are perhaps 100 bottom lines to get fish for the soup. However, it is possible to make some compromises on reducing the number of fishing gears from here on out when we extend it. It seems to me that, at the moment, the ministries, too, are not very enthusiastic about taking this problem on their desk. It's easier to say we have limited resources. Period. That's all I care about. It is a good thing to put all the debates off the table. But we in this Chamber should not accept this, because indeed, it is an undeniably unique tradition in the sense of Estonian culture, and we should promote it in every way, including indeed the handling of seafood, the use of lifestyles. We should preserve, protect and promote all cultural heritage. The main objective or emphasis of this draft is precisely to promote [cultural heritage] so that it will continue to be as rich as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U66	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Yes, fish is scarce, many things are scarce. But there are quite a lot of fishers, we have 1,500 professional fishers sitting here looking right at me and 10,000 amateur fishermen. Some people are looking at me right now from this hall, some are sitting pretty close to me. But what about this thing? Someone has a privilege for the residents of a permanent small island. Yes, if they do, they can take up to three networks. If they want to. But the coasters who don't live on the island don't stand a chance. There was a time when local authorities gave their permission. When you lived on the beach, you did, I guess there were up to three nets. But then they started saying that where there was equal treatment and so on, there was trouble. Then it was decided that we'd stop this shit, get one, and that's enough. And the Environmental Board does. In the meantime, when the report was made, Henn Põlluaas looked at the computer to see that the permits are available for fishing, the online licenses are available in Harjumaa and elsewhere. In some places there were fewer, but in any case almost everywhere it was possible to get it. And then you might wonder, how do you get a license like that, but we're talking about a bunch of snippets? But the question is, when it gets hot. When the red fish runs, when the flounder runs, and so on, it comes a quick-fingered round of fingers and the beachmen...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U68	Mr. Ernits, I'm sorry for a moment. Mr. Ligi and Mr. Reinsalu, it's pretty quiet in the hall right now, but it's all the more difficult to listen when you two are having a parallel debate. [[A voice from the hall.]] It doesn't matter what Ligi's preparing for and what Reinsalu's preparing for. If you guys want to talk alone, get out of the hall and talk to each other. It's just that Mr. Ernitsa is so complicated. Okay. Quiet in the hall, please. Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U69	But maybe some colleagues have such a strong voice in them that they want to say it, but they can't. Maybe I'll wait that long. But if the voice isn't that strong anymore, I can continue. It gets hot when the red fish and the muck run. At other times, when there is nothing very good to take, it is really possible to have nets. The problem with the beachers is that they want a fortress. Everybody wants to make sure they don't have to be all the time... And by the way, if you live on the beach, and not only on the beach, but also quite far from the beach, as an ambassador to South Estonia, I can say that, in the meantime, when there were remote sessions of the Riigikogu, there were problems with obtaining it, endless disruption of the [Community] and so on... But if we're talking about getting this permit now, in the rounds of quick fingers and in the hot season, and every week it goes, then there's a problem. So it cannot be said that this problem does not exist. The fact that it is now possible to obtain a gillnet permit almost everywhere does not mean that the problem is bullshit. But when you start looking at what they're trying to do. Officially, check it out, the Environmental Board has exactly who and how many bass, other fish, uterine life and whatever it is it's trying to catch. All of this is largely taken from the ceiling. There are 10,000 recreational catchers, yes, they're dating, they're setting up nets, they're writing down something. But who controls it? The inspection won't make it. No professional, 1500 fishermen, it's easier to check and see if there are undersized and how much there are, but practically not to look at it in the case of amateurs. And another thing, you can't sell. You can't sell hobbies. But what really happens? The sale's on the line. In the Committee on the Environment, we discussed and an official said that between 80% or 90% of 1500 professional fishermen earn up to EUR 15 per month. Up to 15 euros a month, professional fisherman!? Clearly, he'll probably make more...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U70	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U71	Time? Yeah, I do. I thought Raivo Time had appeared here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U72	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U73	Yeah. Actually, it's pretty messed up. I think that this bill could and should go on in order to correct the whole situation. I don't think we should take this privilege away from the residents of the small islands of permanent residence. But people living on the beach, people living in real life, could still be granted certain privileges. Possibly, indeed, because it concerns especially hot time when red fish is running, as is said, and not just a widow, so that, for example, half of these permits could be shared by local authorities. But it is already a matter of agreement and a question of discussion about how and what is best. But this is often the case today, although it is said that it is not politically correct to say that the Lasnamäe brothers take away. They have better computers, and they don't live anywhere on the beach, and they have a stronger connection. But now, often and in many places, the Beachers have become online servants. I'm not gonna talk about Peipsi. Aivar also knows how that thing works out there. But also elsewhere. The net servants. The wealthy have obtained a lot of permits, and the locals then act as online servants. That's not quite right either. I think it is always easier to say that everything with one rod, one table, no exceptions should be made, but Estonia is small enough, we have differences and certain regions should be taken seriously. No defenseal question, of course, about who's really on the beach and who's keeping an eye on it. One of the Commanders of the Defence Forces is also a beachman by chance, and his concern remains to this day. Only recently did Peter tell me to stress that. I think that's a serious concern to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U74	The political groups do not have any more wishes. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of this decision. Therefore, I will vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposals to the Government of the Republic to support the Beachers" submitted by the Pro Patria Group 539. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U75	The proposal was supported by 36 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or abstentions. As the proposal required a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, the decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U76	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Identity Documents, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu speech chair Eva-Maria Liimetsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U77	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act has been developed to supplement the Consular Act and the Identity Documents Act with provisions allowing, on request, the issue of a European Union Return Certificate to any unrepresented citizen in a third country or in the European Union whose passport or travel document has disappeared, stolen or destroyed or is temporarily unavailable, such as a person whose documents have become obsolete and cannot be easily replaced by the Member State of nationality. The draft also updates the consular law, repeals the provisions that remain in the way of time and clarifies the rights of non-diplomatic staff to carry out simpler consular procedures. In addition, the draft amends the rates of state fees for operations carried out at a foreign mission and introduces new state fees for operations which are still unpaid and updates the regulation of the State Fees Act relating to the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board. The draft has been designed, in particular, to bring the basis for issuing the European Union Return Certificate to the level of the law and to provide a mandate for the establishment of a ministerial regulation on the form and procedure for applying for the European Union Return Certificate. The draft brings the identity document law and consular law into line with the requirements resulting from the Council decision. The decision has so far been implemented on the basis of the Decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs [§ 20 (16) ] and the Ministerial Order issued on this basis. In this context, the draft proposes the following changes: The European Union Return Certificate shall be added to the list of identity documents issued under the Identity Documents Act. It also lays down the conditions under which a national of a Member State of the European Union is issued with a European Union return certificate. Specific features will be laid down when issuing the European Union Return Certificate. The Minister responsible for the field, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is hereby authorised to establish the form for the application for issuing the European Union Return Certificate and the procedures for issuing and withdrawing the European Union Return Certificate. Secondly, the consular law will be updated. It repeals the provisions that remain in the way of time and clarifies the rights of non-diplomatic staff to carry out simpler consular procedures. The amendments concern amendments to the Consular Act, which entered into force on 28 December 2019, which set out the list of consular operations in which the consular service may also be provided by the consular secretary. At the same time, the term "Consulate Secretary' was introduced into the current law as a non-diplomatic staff member who may provide consular services in accordance with the proposed amendments. The draft complements the list of consular operations which may be indicated by the consular secretary, the identification of the person involved in the act of proof and, if the application for the issue of an Estonian citizen's passport or identity card is submitted in the self-service environment of the Police and Border Guard Board, the dactyloscopy of the applicant and the transmission of fingerprints taken in the dactyloscopy to the PBGB. The third objective of the draft is to align state fees with actual expenditure. The rates of state fees for operations carried out at a foreign mission will be changed and new state fees will be introduced for operations which are still unpaid. The amendments concern amendments to the State Fees Act, which entered into force on 6 January 2020, which also amended the rates of state fees for operations carried out at a foreign agency and introduced new State fees for operations previously unpaid, and also updated the regulation of the State Fees Act relating to the operations of the PBGB. The rates of state fees relating to the operations of the PBGB are also amended. The aim of the amendments is to differentiate the rates of state fees for operations carried out in the services of the PBGB, by post and by e-mail, and in the self-service environment. The application for self-service identity documents is, according to the draft, more favourable than €10. At the moment, there is a difference of EUR 5. Applying for registration of short-term employment in a self-service environment is, according to the draft, more favourable than €17. The entry into force of the draft does not entail any additional costs for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The additional cost of implementing the amendments to the European Union Return Certificate is rather theoretical. The implementation of changes in the provision of consular services and operations shall not entail any additional costs or revenue. The entry into force of the amendments relating to the activities of the Foreign Representation of the State Fees Act will not entail additional costs for the State, but will generate additional revenue. The amendments to the State Fees Act relating to the operations of the PBGB require minor development work in the PPA's citizenship and migration procedural system, the costs of which will be covered by the existing budget of the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of the Interior. The law enters into force in general. Implementing acts are being developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U78	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Eduard Odines is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. You referred to the fact that, so far, these European Union return certificates have been issued on the basis of internal documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are now being introduced into the law. Why, however, has it been decided to make such a change now? Does this mean that so far these acts have been carried out illegally, but now you have found that it must still be governed by law? On what basis, then, did you still issue EU return certificates? What legal consequences might it be that we are now taking it to the level of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U80	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. The work so far has been based on the relevant legislation of the European Union, and it has been a decision of the Council of the European Union, which is directly applicable. So what we've done so far was legitimate. However, for reasons of legal clarity, it is appropriate to bring it on a legal basis, as it allows for the possibility that the new type of document is listed in the list of personal documents valid in Estonia and being issued. It also provides an opportunity for this concept to be open and accompanied by an open and accessible document application form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U81	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This bill is such a nice thing that there's state fees, the p.P.A. operations and everything. But I have a completely different question. Shouldn't it have been discussed with this bill that if I wanted to make a document in the PBA, the queues would be long? The story that e-operations are going to be cheaper is great. But if I follow the document, I have to stand there in a room full of three or four hours, where there is no ventilation, not to mention that there has not been a debate about it and even at the time, in the corona conditions, when people were forbidden to be together in one room, there were hundreds of people in the office of the PBA in Tartu, for example. We do not see any solutions to make it so that either Estonian [people] or war refugees who go to the PBGB to apply for their documents should not be in line for at least three months. I do not think that Tartu or Tallinn can handle a shorter period now. Were these points also discussed during the debate on this draft? Taking the money is a nice thing, but getting the service is not offered by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U83	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. First of all, of course, it is in the interests of the state that all citizens and the people of Estonia receive their documents quickly and that it does not take people in vain time or money. I am here with you today, but above all, with the amendments to the law concerning the work of our foreign representations, precisely with the amendments to how the people of Estonia can order and receive their documents in foreign representations, as well as the relevant issues concerning state fees. Therefore, although some of the services that we provide in our foreign representations, in particular those relating to the issue of documents, are closely linked to the operations of the PBGB, the national operations of the PBGB have not been directly addressed in the drafting of this draft. But, of course, the general principle in Estonia is that we can offer as many services as possible to our people in an e-service way. Accordingly, there are differentiated state fees in this draft, depending on whether a person orders a document in an e-environment or is physically required to order it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U84	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question arises or is directed towards the formal requirements of this return certificate, the security features. The question now is who will establish and what level of security is covered by the form of this return certificate. Will these security requirements and formalities be established by the Council of Europe or will it fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Or where do they come from, where can they be viewed and controlled in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U86	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I understand that you are now asking specifically about the identity card of the European Union, not about the return certificate that we ourselves issue. As regards the European Union's return certificate, its security requirements are now being strengthened. A sticker similar to the visa sticker is currently being developed, which will be affixed to the certificate, which already has all the information on the person, as well as a photograph, printed on it. So this document will definitely be safer. Yes, it will be developed jointly in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U87	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You were not present at this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where this draft was presented. I was able to hold on to those samples of the return certificate. My question relates to the question of Paul Puustusmaa, and I actually raised it at the committee meeting. The question is, for me, the security features that were missing on this return certificate were practically not there. That's the question. Yes, they are issued, let us say, very little from abroad indeed. But knowing the tactics of a criminal world, I can say that if someone, some group, has to get that document, it's just a matter of days. Maybe it'll open the door to illegal human trafficking. Why do you not want to introduce additional security features to ensure that there is no such problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U89	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this very important question. Indeed, the security of travel documents is critical to our security. That is why the security of this document has also been improved and is still being dealt with, as I have just said. It is certainly very important, of course, that the corresponding consular officer ensures identification when issuing the document. Similarly, one control mechanism is, for example, that when this temporary travel document is issued to a person, the border guard is informed of this issue. Perhaps information about issuing a specific document has also been passed on to the border. Elik, if someone comes with a fake document, there is no information on it at the border, so there is one way to identify the users of the criminal document. So I very much agree that it is important to ensure the security of travel documents, the security of their use, and that, of course, will continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U90	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U91	Thank you. I ask about the additional tasks of these consular officials. I understand that consular secretaries are now allowed to carry out additional activities that they were still not allowed to do, such as fingerprinting Estonian citizens and other people and carrying out other such activities. If I understand correctly, consular officials at our foreign missions are very often people on the ground who are hired to do the work of our consular authority. They are also very often foreign citizens. Well, let's imagine that there are Russian citizens on Russian territory, for example, who are consular secretaries. Does this mean that we are now giving them the opportunity to collect the fingerprints and other operations of our citizens with our citizens? Don't you see here a threat to our personal data, our security? Have you assessed these risks if you extend the competences of these consular secretaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U92	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. I come back to the importance of security. This is, of course, a priority in all our activities. At the moment, we have, yes, extended the work of the consuls to consular secretaries, but this is still very narrow, which is a single task of purely administrative nature. For example, when issuing identity documents, it is established that he or she can be granted a passport or identity card. For example, there is no longer any decision-making power because Estonia has already decided to issue this document, so only the consular secretary has the transfer function. The consular secretary has also now been allowed to carry out the task of establishing identity. This concerns the need to identify the person before the verification operation, which is carried out virtually by a notary in Estonia. Five consular offices allow us to do so. Also, when we are talking about fingerprinting, this is a limited operation only in cases where a person has already electronically submitted his application for a document to the PBGB. So in all these cases, of course, the consular secretary has some contact with personal data, but there is no broad contact with registers and major storage sites for our personal data. That's part of your question. The second part concerns our staffing process. Of course, in cooperation with the competent authorities, we are trying to ensure that all employees working in Estonian foreign offices, whether diplomats or administrative staff, are clearly loyal to the Republic of Estonia and perform their duties in accordance with this principle. At present, we have roughly less than half of the consular secretaries who are ready to perform this function. And here is another very important aspect. The reason why we have taken such a step is that Estonia's foreign missions are very small and the consular workload is often very high. For example, if there is a consular reception, the consul deals with customers, sometimes some customers take a very long time, but at the same time another customer comes to collect only his document, it is very reasonable that this activity can be carried out by the consular secretary in parallel during the consular reception.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U93	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U94	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. There's a story here that doesn't change much, but the state fee changes. However, Paragraph 271 states: "The state fee for examining an application for the temporary right of residence of a member of the family of a citizen of the European Union is 31 euros and 50 euros are paid in a foreign representation. " But now you're turning it into 60 euros. Can you explain why this EUR 31 remains, but in the foreign representation, there's an extra ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U95	Thank you for that question. As regards the need to increase the state fee in one place or another in a foreign representation, it is directly linked to the costs of the operation and these costs have increased over time. They concern the acceptance of the application, its posting in Estonia. These costs related to the operation have been updated by the current draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U96	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I asked you before about the security of the return certificate. Then you said that this was an important issue, that security must be guaranteed, and you pointed out that the security of this document was being dealt with. My question is this: what security elements do you consider necessary as a minister and you want to start using this return certificate? Because you also said you had this thing planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U98	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, this process is currently underway to switch to personalised stickers on the return certificate of a European Union person. It is certainly very important there that this sticker is similar to those made with a visa sticker, which is difficult to forge. One is printing a photo there, for example. If we compare with the current return certificate, where a person's photo is simply added and the information about the person is printed, it is clear that it is considerably easier to forge than to copy a specific sticker.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U99	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U100	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. In answer to my previous question, you said that a tenner should be added, because there is more work in foreign offices, more work. But now I'm gonna ask you the next question. Here is § 272 (3) which states that the state fee for examining the application for a residence card for a member of the family of a citizen of the European Union is now set at EUR 30 per 25 euros, EUR 5 is raised to 30, EUR 5 is added to the list, but EUR 50 is paid in the foreign representation. " Where is the logic? That last question I asked you. Now the state fees are not changed in foreign offices, but in non-external offices there are five more. The previous one maybe 31 euros as it was, didn't change, but at 50 it went to 60. Where's the logic? Can you describe it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U101	Yeah. Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, a number of fees changed in one direction or another and have been specifically considered for one or the other activity whether or not the costs incurred by the State in providing X or Y have changed. As a result, in one place too, the state fee has risen, and in another place it has remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U102	Good Minister, no more questions for members of the Riigikogu. Thank you for this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U104	Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is now invited to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 April this year. The draft was presented by Monika Metspalu, director of the first office of the consular department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Tiina Kallasmaa, adviser to the second office of the same department. In essence, the draft was spoken in the same way as the Minister today, I will not repeat it. As a remark, I would mention so much that indeed, Madam Minister could not appear in the Commission because he had to be in Warsaw at the same time. This information had previously been communicated to the Commission. The Commission consulted in writing and considered that, by way of exception, given the technical nature of this draft, it would indeed agree to discuss this issue without the presence of a minister. Some of the questions in our debate were the same as the ones we had in this Chamber. It was asked to clarify the updating of the rates of state fees and the security of European return certificates and the security of all their issuing if the issuer is a country other than Estonia. As regards the rates of state fees, Mrs Metspalu said that at the beginning of 2020 the new rates of state fees for applying for and issuing identity documents were in force in foreign agencies, but some of them did not change, for example, when issuing a residence permit in foreign agencies, the state fee was now set at EUR 20, which was not set in 2020, and that it was also intended to increase the cost of processing the application from EUR 20 to EUR 80 in order to bring it into line with real costs, as the volume of work and the administrative burden have increased and the cost-based calculations showed that this EUR 20 was very outdated. Mr Kivimägi asked whether EUR 80 corresponds to the actual costs and whether this is also necessary to ensure that these visa procedures are not challenged too lightly. Mrs Metspalu said that the number of disputes against visa procedures is increasing in any case, regardless of the amount of the fee, but this EUR 80 corresponds to the actual costs. In the explanatory memorandum, the calculation is also well described and mainly related to the labour costs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Odines was interested in the additional powers given to consular secretaries and asked whether it was right for him to know that in some of the consular authorities, this work is done not by Estonian citizens, but by hired workers, who may also be nationals of the country of residence. Monika Metspalu explained that the rights to issue Estonian identity documents have been granted to them as early as 2019 and the current amendment will only give them the opportunity to collect fingerprints from applicants for the Estonian passport. And if an Estonian citizen applies for a new identity document in a self-service environment, but it turns out that his fingerprints are out of date, this person will come to a foreign agency and give his or her fingerprints. This is the only additional right granted to the consular secretary. According to the State Department, there is no security threat. The chairman of the committee, Mr Kivimägi, said that the period during which the consular secretaries were entitled actually began in 2019, and this has not been the case in the past, so the practice is relatively short. In fact, the risks raised by Mr Odines should be assessed and analysed. Mr Grünthal, Member of the Commission, asked for a description of the security features of the return certificate. Mrs Kallasmaa presented a model to the Commission for its inspection. Kalle Grünthal said that if it is this document, it is the easiest document to counterfeit at all, which gives any character the opportunity to come to Estonia on the basis of this document. Mr Grünthal believes that the return certificate should be as secure as any other document relating to the identity card. Mrs Tiina Kallasmaa also showed the Commission a return certificate for an Estonian citizen, which is already issued by Estonian embassies and honorary consuls, and explained that such a document and a document of the same kind, which is fully filled in with a photograph, is also a return permit for people of undefined Estonian citizenship. Kallasmaa said that these documents are similar and indeed that there are not so many security features like those of ordinary identity documents, precisely because it is a disposable temporary document that must be issued at the moment of crisis. Mr Toomas Kivimägi asked me to clarify who is issuing return certificates. He said that he understood that these were countries where there was no embassy or consular office, Estonia's, and asked how much really this document had entered Estonia and how long it had been valid. Mrs Kallasmaa explained that this is a temporary one-off document for border crossings to return to her country or to the territory of the European Union. This document, which was presented, is a document that the countries of the European Union give to each other's citizens. So if an Estonian citizen gets into trouble in a country, his documents will be lost in a country where there is no Estonian embassy or honorary consul, he will receive this paper and it will help him back to Estonia. A person receives it from any embassy of the European Union that is currently in this country. Most of all, Estonia has worked together with the Germans, i.e. German embassies issue this document to Estonians. The Spanish and French embassies have also issued exactly the same documents. Before the corona apandemia, there was more, a little less in the intervening years. In 2020, six Estonian citizens received this document, in 2021 only four people. It also relates to the fact that people's travel was simply limited and smaller. Before the pandemic, 2018 it was received by seven Estonian citizens and in 2019 13 Estonian citizens. The second was the documents that Estonian embassies and honorary consuls give to Estonian citizens. There are 800 of them in the order of magnitude. This means that people lose documents quite easily. Mrs Kallasmaa also pointed out that the European Union's return certificate would not be issued in such a way that a person would go to his chosen embassy and then that embassy would simply give it. Everything happens in a coordinated manner, Estonia confirms all personal data, and there is also coordination when Estonia gives this document to a citizen of another country, so the level of trust is exactly the same as in the case of Estonia's own representation. Mr Riho Breivel said that he had dealt with similar issues in the past and confirmed that such documents, even more thoroughly than passports, would be thoroughly examined at border crossing points. He found it impossible to get through this document by forgery. If anyone wants to come illegally, there are far simpler ways of doing so than forgery of a return certificate. Oudekki Loone gave an example of a real case with an Estonian consular institution, where in the case of a divorced family, one parent decided to take the children away from another parent's unknown country and claimed that he had lost all the papers. He received a document for himself and the children and returned to Estonia with it. The question was that, since there may be such cases, if an external embassy issues a return certificate, it could make it easier to have theoretical child abductions or such cases, whether it would simplify it in any way. Mrs Kallasmaa stated that she was also familiar with this example and said that the problem was also that the family's residence according to the population register was in Estonia and could not refuse to issue an Estonian citizen a document allowing him to travel to Estonia. But as far as the possibility of such child abduction is concerned, the document is issued with Estonia's coordination and confirmation that all the information is correct. So if there is any information that there is a judgment with which, for example, formal communication procedures and custody rights are shared, it is possible to share this information with another country, and in this case it can always be said that the situation needs to be discussed more precisely and the issue of a document does not need to be rushed. There is also an agreed procedure in the European Union when it can be said that it is not acceptable for another country to issue a return certificate and that the case will be resolved. It is then possible to make sure that this other country is not asked to issue a European Union document, but it is said that we have studied and deepened, and the Estonian state will issue its own document itself if necessary. Then it will be sent from the nearest Estonian embassy or from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the country where this event takes place. So that's where the defense mechanisms are built. Mr Grünthal said that he was deeply pleased that there were very few cases and said that such a very simple document actually gives traffickers the opportunity to send their goods from one end of the European Union to another, because counterfeiting it is not a problem. The receipt of the original document from the consulate is also not a problem. Grünthal felt that he saw this as a security threat, because if the same document were used to come from somewhere else in Europe, then, for example, in the case of prostitution, there was no need for more than that person to enter the territory of the European Union. Mrs Kallasmaa replied that it can be confirmed that for every person who comes to the border, it is not just to look at whether the photo matches, but to check more at the border. Mr Kivimägi admitted: Kalle Grünthal's opinion that this document is not secure enough may be correct, but he also trusts Riho Breivel, who confirmed that a very thorough border inspection is being carried out. Three procedural decisions were taken: a proposal to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 19 April 2022, a proposal to terminate the first reading and to appoint Mr Oudekki Loone, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. All these decisions were taken by consensus, and according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft is ten working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U106	Thank you. Now it's possible to ask questions, but they don't look like one. Thank you. Then we'll go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. And, as has just been said, the commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 570 be stopped. The first reading has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 May. Today's third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U107	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The rapporteur is Anti Poolamets, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U108	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Civil Status Act complements the procedure for registering the child's data and fills the gap in cases where the child is born at home or on the way to the health care provider. In such cases, the relevant certificate shall be issued by the family physician. Why is the bill necessary? The draft is necessary in order to put an end to the situation in which children born at home cannot be registered. This is the legal gap that this bill will solve. If there is an unexpected birth, a home birth, and a mother does not reach the hospital, there is a situation in which the child may not be registered. As we know, the network of maternity hospitals is increasingly being pulled together. Maternity hospitals are so far away in many places that the problem shows a tendency to deteriorate. Women who are pregnant are no longer in hospital on time, and they also have fear that the distance is so long, and what if I have to give birth in a car somewhere on the way to the ring. Then I'd better give birth at home, I've got experience, I'll be fine. So the risks have increased in many ways. Officials, however, refuse to register a child when they came into labor outside the health care provider's field of view. This, in turn, means that the child cannot be given an official name, benefits or parental benefit. A person is left in a legal no-man's land. In legal terms, it is an unassistant home birth, which is not contrary to the law. Also, the law in force does not require that a child must be given birth in a hospital or always call an ambulance. To register a birth, a medical birth certificate can only be issued by a medical service provider. The origin is now being established through legal proceedings. The child and his parents must not enter this grey zone and go through legal proceedings to prove: this is my child. There are people who have said why I have to prove it. I'm the mother, I'm the birther of my child, and I don't have to prove that I'm her mother. They think it's humiliating when they have to prove it in court: it's my child. At the moment, it does not even matter that the mother had been properly monitored by the health care provider when she was pregnant. Perhaps we are proposing a simpler procedure than merely running things through the courts. To this end, the amendment provides that, in the cases described above, the family physician shall issue the necessary certificate for registration. The family doctor is closest to his patient, he knows the people on his list best, and he has an overview. He can always look at the preceding material that shows whether a person has been a proper parent, whether he has any references to disorderly conduct, or if he has been exemplary in every way, so that it also appears from a family doctor. If the family doctor is not convinced and he finds that there really are suspicious circumstances, then, in turn, there may be legal proceedings. We think that this first filter would be very easy to go through with a family doctor without creating any complications for the parent. In the same way, the family doctor has the right to request relevant information from other health care providers, where the mother was registered, whether she had received maternity counselling, if she had been registered where necessary. So all the procedures are in place. Critics have said that all of this should be regulated by another law. But we think the official is the right link. If an official follows a finger in the law and says that he cannot register the child, he does not have that basis in this letter, [there is a problem]. For him, the law must clearly state the line on the basis of which he makes his decision. That is why it is necessary to establish this basis in the Civil Status Act. Additional implementing legislation needs are not created by this bill, which is why we find it easy to do so. We call for support. I'm waiting for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U109	Thank you. Yeah. Kert Kingo has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do you, Anti, review or know the reasons why so far no such important thing has been introduced? What has prevented it, or what has justified or argued it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U111	It is justified that the state is trying to prevent home births. The state has come up with quite adequate regulation for the legal regulation of home births. Maybe you have to be a health care professional, it's got to be planned. That makes sense. However, the problem now is that it still reminds you of the spite that, as well as frightening them, at least officials think that this could frighten those who, for some reason, certainly want to give birth to themselves at home without the presence of a health care professional. But I am still referring to this fact, who remembers at all, that knows how long the debate has been going over it, that another maternity department is being shut down, that South Estonia must go nowhere. The whole of South Estonia was driven to Tartu, the rest to Tallinn. Rakvere maternity department has also been mentioned. How do you plan this life at all to drive along the highways and hope that nature will not defeat you? Sometimes the reception isn't very friendly either. How to say, it's the birth trauma, but some babies have trauma because of vicious midwives and vicious receptionists. They're in enough trouble as it is, they're scared for a long ride, but this whole situation is dramatic. Even if there is no helper by the side, if the husband went to work at that time, [birth] had to happen in, for example, a week or two weeks, and no one is present or there is any other obstacle, then we do not have to punish these people for making mistakes and bringing the country to the minimum of a network of maternity hospitals. That is why I believe that the country has a duty to be more responsive to women who have a home birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U112	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U113	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! Without wanting to promote home births very strongly now, but, well, it's part of life, to be honest, and we get it. I'm sure it's safer to give birth in a maternity home, it's more complicated at home, but you can't rule out a home birth. And it would be foolish to rule that out. I therefore ask whether there may be an overview of how many home births we have had in Estonia in recent years, which has inevitably highlighted this problem. How many have there been, do we know, numerically?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U114	Yeah, they're accounted for. Right now, I don't have that table on hand, but I know it's 100. It's fluctuating year after year. But among them are assisted home births, where everything is planned, there is a midwife who has the corresponding paper, and there are unaided home births, of course, fewer. But remember these caricatures after the southern Estonian maternity network was pulled together, how the field was born. I don't think it's funny teeth, but it's quite serious people, such as a relationship manager named Janek Mägg, who's helped a lot of parties, said that his grandmother had a baby in a sauna or a field or where she was. My tongue doesn't bend to making fun of such matters, because the situation has gone awry. When South Estonia goes to one maternity hospital, North Estonia goes to another, it seems that our country has become... I'm going to have this comparison with security that if we only have two maternity hospitals, how are we supposed to behave, in military terms. Then there is a feeling that our territory is so small that we only have two maternity departments. Has everything been wiped out in two regions like we don't have any other Estonia? Creepy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U115	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, the time course of childbirth is different for each woman, from birth to final birth, and cannot be determined with an hour's accuracy. After all, there are quite a few women who have become faster than unexpected births. So it hasn't been anticipated that this is going to happen, and then they're in a situation where they're forced to give birth at home. How, then, have these women managed to get a personal identification number for children born at home so far? How have they even succeeded in fixing or recording this birth?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U117	It's all through court, this whole procedure. A request must be made to the court. In different estimates, this procedure takes a month or several months. But we have now also faced the fact that parents feel that they have done everything right and that they have the question: "Why must we humiliate ourselves to prove that my child is my child? Like we stole him from someone. " I agree that there should be an intermediate option. The court is always a fallback in special cases, and there are always special cases, but if the mother has done everything right, the official can't think of being clever now and preventing home births. Look, home births will be avoided if we do not shut down the maternity departments, if we stop the spiteful regional policy and the story is that skilled doctors are only in Tallinn and Tartu. We have to do something different. I think we need to set up a network of our hospitals, so there are fewer of these chaotic cases. Much depends on how far away a person is from the maternity hospital, whether he is half an hour, an hour, or a half an hour and a half away. What can happen if this journey lasts an hour? And as I pointed out, it scares people. He's already in a dramatic situation. Not all births are easy. Maybe there aren't the right people around. There are also complications where a person may not even be able to contact who needs to be contacted very quickly. Doing the opposite, honoring these mothers, and not forcing them to spend the courts to prove that it's my child.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U118	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U119	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! It seems, yes, that we in society have chosen the path that one comma of another needs to be banned very badly in big liberalism, and it seems that the subject of homebirth is one of the topics in which someone has once decided at some point to ban it. I therefore believe that this approach in itself is the right thing to do, to bring it into the law base. It also gives the authorities greater responsibility to do things right. But on the other hand, we basically now have the regulation of the Ministry of the Interior as the basis for issuing a medical birth certificate and creating a personal identification code. The question is this: have you now turned to the Ministry of the Interior to discuss how this is going and whether it could be improved through the Ministry of the Interior before the draft was drawn up or after the draft was drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U120	We have heard and received their opinion in the Commission. They do not support this bill and prefer to go on with the old system. But I don't think this is going to work without a change of law, because a civil status officer can't do anything else unless he has to find out in law how to give a child a personal identification code. It really is a weighty decision, registration of the birth of one person. Estonia has still been calm about these issues, but in some Central European countries all kinds of things happen on this subject, all kinds of things happen in large cities. There could really be more concern about a crime such as selling and buying children. We don't have it so dramatic right now that we need to run several DNA tests in court and keep treating a person like a suspicious criminal. This is not respect for the mother of the child or for the parents of the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U121	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask the representative of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair, Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee processed the draft law amending the Civil Status Act last week, 12 April. Commission advisers, Karin Saan from the Ministry of the Interior and Heli Paliste from the Ministry of Social Affairs and, of course, the members of the committee themselves took part in the discussion. The anti-Semiamets also explained in the Commission, which prompted the legislative amendment to be proposed. According to him, these are exceptional situations in which a child is born without medical attention at home, in a car, on his way to a hospital to give birth, for example. In order to be able to register these births more quickly, the right to issue such a certificate should be granted to the family doctor in accordance with this draft. Karin Saan, Adviser to the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior, explained why the Ministry does not support any possible amendment of the law. In fact, the same law on civil status procedures that is intended to be amended describes on the basis of which the civil status officer can register the birth, a medical birth certificate or a court settlement. The councillor also confirmed that, as a rule, births have been recorded within one month without a health care professional. When parents take the necessary steps, the procedure is not hindered. The representative of the Ministry did not agree with the author's argument that the court proceedings to establish the parentage of the child could last six months. Head of the health network Heli Paliste added that according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is no legal gap either. Registering a child with a family doctor in a situation where the doctor himself has not been present at the birth of the child goes against the current principles of health care. These principles are as follows: a healthcare professional can only document and demonstrate the provision of a healthcare service, including evidence of the births in which he/she has participated. True, according to the documents, the family physician can prove that the woman has been pregnant, but the birth certificate does not only prove the birth of the child but also proves the parentage. It is also worth highlighting the fact that the Ministry does not support legal changes that encourage women to give birth without the presence of a health care professional. In such a situation, there is a high risk to the health of both the child and the newborn. During the discussion of the members of the Commission, answers were received to questions concerning home birth statistics, the risks of unaided home birth. The Commission was also asked whether there were any risks other than the potential risk of trafficking in human beings. It also requested information on whether there have been cases in Estonia where the mother of the child disappears and does not wish to register her child. All these questions were answered. In the Commission itself, the Anti Seminar Office, which introduced the draft, said that it was reasonable and justified to regulate home birth and to lay down the corresponding requirements. He also agreed that the hospital was the safest place to give birth, as childbirth could be a complication and the hospital would have the necessary help immediately. Draft 534, which is currently being dealt with here, does not stand for an unaided home birth, but is intended to give the family doctor the right to register the birth of the child. That's what the Anti Division said. There you go. All questions were answered and discussed by means of procedural decisions. It was decided to appoint Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to appoint a representative of the commission of 534, with 8 votes against 0 abstentions, to propose a draft of 534 on the agenda of 19 April by 8, with 0 abstentions, and to propose the rejection of draft 534 by 5, with 3 abstentions. Thank you so much for listening. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U123	There are questions. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There is still a very clear question mark in the situation where we have, in recent years, as well as the imminent closure of a large number of smaller hospital delivery departments. If, for example, on the way from some rural area to a center where there is still a chance of giving birth at a hospital, under the care of doctors, and so on, the child is still born on the way there or at home before they get on the road, what will happen? These issues are currently unregulated. The Social Security Department officials, as far as I can tell, didn't essentially answer those questions. Why, then, do you not support the attempt to regulate this situation within the framework of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U125	Thank you for your question. In fact, this bill is about registering the birth of a family doctor. There was a statement here several times, although I am now going a little wider than the Commission's debate, and perhaps I do not have the authority to do so, that the maternity departments have been shut down and so on, but I have not missed the opportunity to give birth at the nearest local hospital. I'll just give you an example from my home island: you can give birth in Kuressaare, you can give birth in smaller hospitals. Of course, it's always the time to call an ambulance for help. No one precludes that there really are exceptional situations where, as described very professionally here by the Anti Half Office, the child is born in the car and so on, and so on. Yes, but this moment of birth registration is currently legally regulated as it is. That is the Commission's decision. I represent the Commission here and I apologise for going beyond the powers conferred by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U126	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U127	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is very often the case that when a draft is initiated to resolve a problem, government ministers or representatives, officials say that it is being dealt with, we come with our draft. They see a problem that needs to be solved, but it's just another performer. The Ministry of Social Affairs cannot be unaware that such problems have occurred on a number of occasions throughout Estonia. The problem of giving a personal identity code to a child born at home has been addressed to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Did you talk about it in the committee? Does the Ministry see a problem at all that something needs to be initiated, that something needs to be changed to solve this problem? Or do they think that everything has to be as it is already regulated, and they won't change anything? Was there such a question or such a conversation in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U128	Dear Helmen Hunter! It's a very up-to-date question. This question was not put to the Commission in this format. The representatives of the ministries didn't say they were planning on coming up with a new bill. But I don't doubt they're up to speed. The statistics are all there. In any case, putting this bill on the agenda also sends a message that perhaps it is necessary to review things personally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U129	Thank you. No further questions, we can open negotiations. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U130	All right, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the waitress. Thank you to the Commission's waitress, Urvet. So what do we see? 534 SE, we are discussing here to solve the problem because there is a problem. As Urve said a few moments ago, he believes that we have ministries and government seeing a problem, he believes that this is probably what they are thinking about. But nobody really does that. Now let's take it back a little bit. I don't know exactly where it started, but in any case the fact is that in the second half of 2021, the question of the light of day in the media was that we have something wrong with the natural right, we have something wrong with the natural regulation. Things must be natural in law and society. If they're unnatural, they're of little use and they're harmful. Yes, one part of them is that we have home births and they don't go away. We may even put people in prison, but we still don't go anywhere. Just so you don't hide your head under the ground, under the sand, you just need to adjust it. In November 2021, in a very well-known and popular TV show "The Spectator" the facts came to light, according to which it became apparent that officials would refuse, in other words, the state would refuse to give the newborn a personal identification number when the child was born outside the field of view of the health care provider. After all, it is natural for us to have men both mother and father at once, or grandfather and grandmother, no one to control when they were born or not. But look, there's a problem with Mom, even though she's carrying a baby, does it in front of her society, people see, neighbors see, acquaintances see, family doctor knows. But did she still have a baby? Maybe he found the baby under the cabbage leaf. Well, then, let's not regulate, let's still hide our heads in the sand. As far as "The Spectator" is concerned, "The Spectator" says a dozen such cases have occurred in recent years. The Anti-Semimets said here that there are actually more. We're talking about dozens and dozens, maybe hundreds of cases. But there's no regulation. We have this opportunity here: we can either dedicate ourselves and apply our skills, knowledge and opportunities to influence the process, or simply devote ourselves to red tape or find a solution. I would remind you that this was on 22 September 2020, when Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise said that it was unreasonable to do something that was not aimed at the solution, but at the procedure. Okay, that was said in a slightly different context, but, broadly speaking, he pointed out what we're doing here right now. We now have an attempt to delay the procedure, not to tackle the problem, or, on the other hand, to try to find a solution. Today's company is divided into three. One group is the one who supports finding a solution. The second group is the one who certainly does not support finding a solution and believes that it is necessary to continue in the old way. And the third group of us must be the ones who don't even know what to do. Since we have first reading and we have the perfect opportunity to smooth this out the way we need it, dear colleagues, let us move on with this solution. We will find a solution and save our society from this shameful situation. It's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U131	Thank you. Would Tiiu Aro like a speech on the subject? Got it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U132	Speaking on the spot. Thanks for the interesting theme raise! I have been familiar with this problem for years, as a doctor, but in the last decade as an official. I know that it is still possible to register children actually born at home. And home birth as such is regulated in Estonia. For this purpose, special authorisations have been granted to competent persons. That's one thing. In the event that the birth really takes place so quickly that there is no professional help, this fact can be recognised either by an ambulance or by the possibility that postpartum examination by a feminine doctor will be obtained and that it will indeed be established that the person has given birth and that the child is [his] and that everything corresponds to the proportions of time. So I think and I know that these problems have actually been lonely over the years. Maybe in the last few weeks or months, it's a lot bigger, but solutions have been sought, and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs have been known to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U133	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U134	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! The birth of a child should be a joyous occasion for the family. At the moment, however, a family in Estonia has spent more than six months working on the doors of the institutions and on the door of the court to become a citizen and a name for the child to receive birth grants from both the state and the local government, parental benefits and all other prescribed rights. It's not the first time. I have personally addressed the Deputy Chancellor of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs on several occasions. There have been many cases where a child was born at home, a witness of loved ones. There have also been many of them in Viljandi County. And in very different ways, they are solved. The hospital has been reached within 24 hours, carrying a bag with the placenta, the ladies' doctor has examined the child and the mother, admitted that the child is healthy and the mother's health has given birth to a woman, and the family doctor has issued a birth certificate. But it's not normal, it's not like that everywhere. In fact, we have a situation where we have very different approaches and solutions to these problems. I also think that is why the Social Democrats certainly do not agree with the idea of the commission rejecting this draft at first reading. We're not opposed to the hospital, we're not opposed to home births. However, in a situation where the problem actually exists, it would have been very sensible for the commission to address the Committee on Social Affairs so that the Committee on Social Affairs also gave an opinion. We would have met the Minister, the Deputy Chancellor of Health, listened to these stories, the patient representative, the association of women doctors or anyone, and shaped the position. Because we all know that there are problems. This conversion was not made. Each committee, of course, will decide for itself. This is one of the reasons why we do not consider the idea of the commission of directors rejecting this draft. If the colleagues who are in the Chamber, regardless of the political party or the world view, really consider that the proposed draft should be supplemented, then it is time for the amendments. And amendments could have been made by the Ministry, I mean both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. We reject this bill, but this problem will not go away. In fact, it is still unsolved whether witnesses who are present will be approached within 24 hours... I do not want to deal with individual cases, as there are probably data protection issues here. If the woman on the record has to prove that she is his child, I wonder why officials don't have a question if they doubt it's his child. But where did her baby get when she wasn't pregnant anymore? In fact, this situation is not regulated as it should. We should still open this debate and discuss it. Yes, we really have an assisted home birth described, but not everything in life goes exactly according to the description. Such cases exist, and I can tell myself that in the last four years at least from Viljandi County, I have had to address two or three times with an analogous problem, witnessing grandparents or a husband. Actually, I have to say, honestly, I'm happy to say that a few hospitals or family doctors have solved this. But not all of them. It is not normal for our women and families to be treated differently across Estonia. And I think it would be reasonable if this draft had been given the opportunity to be read again, the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, the amendments tabled by the deadline for amendments, the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Social Affairs Committee, which also dealt with health problems and the issue of assisted home birth in previous configurations. So, as a result, the Social Democrats do not support the decision of the commission to simply reject the draft, because we can reject the draft, but the problems remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U135	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 534 at first reading and we must vote on it. Before we vote, we'll do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-19_U136	There are 47 delegates in favour of rejection, 22 against, one abstention. The draft will fall out of the procedure. Our agenda today is over and the hearing is over. Thank you.
