ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 4th May briefing. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Andres Sutt, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U2	19 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 82 are missing. Dear colleagues, I would ask for your cooperation and would like to support this proposal that, as ten topics have been registered, there could be a specific question and an additional question on each issue. If that's okay, let's get started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U3	The first questioner is a member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, he is answered by the member of the government Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is additional budget choices. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have said, and so it is that the additional budget, which has been submitted to the Riigikogu and will be dealt with today at first reading, is, above all, the budget for energy security, increasing [general] security and mitigating the effects of war. I would very much like to begin by congratulating the fact that this additional budget raises the limit of living, that one-off support also extends to people who are unable to work or who are partially able to work, old-age pensioners and children. These are all such important and very important things that can be done, not to mention, of course, [the allocations] to national defence and elsewhere. But I have a question that concerns precisely this one-off aid of EUR 150. Is it based on some kind of analysis that it would really be useful, or is it just that you got together in the middle: the Centre Party wanted EUR 100 and the Reform Party wanted another sum? Why 50, why not 70, 80 or 100?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U6	Indeed, the extra budget transferred on Monday has focused on dealing with the effects of war. First of all, of course, there are means to increase national defence so that we are protected. And not only defence more narrowly, but national defence more broadly, i.e. the protection of the population, which has been discussed for a long time, but where money has not been put in the past. Another major part is energy security so that we can meet more firmly in the autumn. And the third part is indeed the direct effects of war that result from refugees and are also linked to people's livelihoods in general. First of all, we really are raising income support to 33%, or 200 euros. This is precisely so that the people who need it most can also cope with these price increases. Now, we have indeed foreseen an additional budget buffer for autumn as well. You can always argue how big this buffer should be. Unfortunately, on the one hand, we have a state budget, a state wallet, which is filled with taxpayers' contributions. And the taxpayer's wallet isn't really bottomless. This restriction is on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, there is a need to help people. The amounts are always debatable. Unfortunately, with all the subsidies, those who receive say too little, those who do not, say that those who do get it wrong. Nobody's finally happy. 50 euros is also a large sum for many families. I wouldn't underestimate that in any way. But yes, these are the limits that have been set out. Why are we going to see this buffer by autumn? Because we have a hard time ahead of us, that's clear. The effects of war extend beyond our borders. Businesses or different sectors of the economy will be hit with sanctions, though with interruptions in supply chains. This, in turn, affects people's livelihoods, the salaries of those who work. This is the whole package of concerns that we are actually facing in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U7	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U8	Thank you very much. If you've read in my question that I'm somehow underestimating 50 euros, you're wrong. Any amount that goes in support of the family will certainly help. But the question is, is there enough and is it based on some kind of analysis, some kind of calculation? I certainly don't think I'm underdoing it. And it's perfectly clear that tax revenues come from people's taxes, people contribute. And you said very nicely that the country's wallet isn't bottomless. In fact, there is no bottomless local government wallet. Today, however, when meeting with the Minister for Social Protection, it was pointed out that kindergarten places are the responsibility of the local government. This is the task of the local government and was [reliable] as long as there was no situation where we had much more of those in need, precisely because of the war. But no measure to help municipalities create kindergarten places, I don't know, with a modular house or anything else, is in this supplementary budget. Municipalities are not all prepared for this. There are municipalities who may be able to guarantee it, where there is no kindergarten problem, but mostly it has been heard that we can solve school places, but it is more difficult with kindergarten places. And that's where my question comes from. Indeed, neither the state nor the municipality's wallet is bottomless. But to get these war-escape women to work, they really need kindergarten places. Is any measure, I don't know, to encourage childcare, to set up a modular day care centre or something else conceivable and could it be in an extra budget somewhere in a row that I didn't find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U10	Thank you. First of all, the income base of local governments has increased considerably in previous years, thanks to the better collection of taxes. And I have to say that there is also the Minister of State Administration, Jaak Aab, who is fiercely fighting for the rights and opportunities of local governments on every subject. So that local authorities are very well represented at the level of the Government of the Republic, I can tell you. As regards war refugees and related day-care centres and school places, I agree with you that there must be opportunities for people to go to work. 45% of the war refugees who have come to Estonia are women and 34% are children. Of these children, about 60% are actually of school age, while the rest are smaller, or those who need to avoid. I guess there's a lot to do with that. In these communities, where there are many women, it is also possible to organise these children in turn by the Ukrainian women themselves. But it is certainly a difficult and certainly kindergarten issue for local governments. It is true that, according to the law, it is the task of the municipality to provide a kindergarten or early childhood education. It is just now that there has been so much additional burden in the form of children we could not count on even a year ago. The same applies to school places. So we need to see how we can solve these problems together with the local authorities. I know that the Minister of Education will also meet regularly with representatives of local governments to find solutions for how to work together to ensure that all these places, including the necessary childcare, are in place and that education can be guaranteed for all the children who are here. But I admit it is difficult, we have suddenly come into this situation. It is also difficult that not everyone has made themselves known. We're afraid we'll find out too late about the kids who should go to school. So the efforts are also there so that we can get this knowledge as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U11	Aivar Chef, second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U12	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Society screaming under energy bills. The high price of energy carriers has been painfully hit by both economic operators and [other] consumers. Estonia is the country with the highest inflation in the euro area and it must take urgent steps to support its own people and businesses. In order to curb the surge in inflation, compensatory measures must be implemented quickly. It is unacceptable that, in a situation where the country's tax revenues are increasing, no steps are taken to mitigate the price increase. In March, the average electricity price was 18.38 cents per kilowatt-hour, including VAT of 3.06 cents. Last April, it was three times lower. Even if VAT is reduced from 20% to 9%, the country still receives more VAT revenue than in the same period last year. One solution to mitigate the effects of increased energy costs would be to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9%. The Fatherland has introduced a draft law amending the VAT Act, which was discussed yesterday and will be continued here in the Riigikogu today. The aim of the draft is to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat to 9% and thereby reduce the impact of the surge in prices of gas, electricity and heat on Estonian consumers and companies. As Head of Government, does your government support the Fatherland's proposal to reduce VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9%?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U14	Thank you. Of course, it's great how you give these numbers. You're just stressing the price of March, but you won't bring the price of April. April's price was one third lower than March's price, but it would probably not be suitable for performance. But in saying that, I admit that gas prices are high, electricity prices are still high and fuel prices are also high. That's the problem, we have high inflation. This inflation is, of course, compared to last April, and that does not mean that it is low, but it is, on the contrary, very high. But just the base you're looking at was very low in April last year, Of course excise duties and taxes are state tools. But you can't be sure that prices are going to fall. Just because I was interested, I let out all the European countries that have done excise duties or VAT reductions. [I also took out] fuel prices to see if it had any effect. Take Portugal, for example, which has reduced these taxes to a minimum. The price of their fuel is 1.878 and our price is 1.899. Or we could take Germany or the Netherlands, who have reduced excise duty in the same way. In Germany the price of fuel is 2.004 and in the Netherlands 2,107. What am I saying? If you look at this picture, you can see that it does not automatically mean that it affects people at prices. If we take the price of fuel purely and set a minimum rate of [excises], for example, in the case of diesel, the consumer would win 23 cents per litre and in the case of petrol, 24 cents per litre. Of course, this is also an effect, but we have seen that in fact Estonian fuel sellers, when the price on the world market decreases, tend not to lower the price at which they sell here. Then it is said that so much [there are stocks]. On the contrary, if [the world market] price increases, the sales price will be immediately increased. So, in fact, we do not have the levers in which the effect of lowering these taxes would surely reach people. We must look precisely at the fact that we can help those who need help the most. And we all have to admit that these are difficult times. Hard times lie ahead, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U15	Thank you. Now let's move on to procedural questions. Aivar Chef, please! Microphone for you, please! Yeah, I got it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U16	Thank you. First, the Prime Minister did not answer the question. I asked about gas, electricity and hot VAT. The answer was about diesel excise, and he forgot that in those countries that he brought [for example], VAT is different from that in Estonia. There is also a price difference. But I did not get the answer as to whether the government would be willing to support the fall in VAT or not. The Prime Minister spoke of excise duties on fuel, diesel excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U17	Yes, thank you, but I don't consider it a procedural question. The procedural question should be, if something doesn't work, if the microphone doesn't work, or if there's any other problem. I cannot give the floor to the government representative to answer your procedural question. You're so clever, I'm just asking you to help me. But with that, I will now stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U18	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is price increases. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U19	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm gonna pick up where Aivar Kokk ended up, and it's right to go, because really, there was no answer to the question. But inflation is record in Estonia, with over 19% of the latest data compared to a year ago. The European average is 7.5%, i.e. many times lower. And that's also a comparison to a year ago. After all, prices are rising daily, people's livelihoods and companies' competitiveness are thus decreasing. And if we also take into account that the prices of inputs in production this spring, also in food production, for example, be they fertilisers, seeds, fuel prices, it can already be assumed that the next wave of price increases will come in autumn and inflation will increase further. At the same time, the government has proposed an additional budget for this year and I believe that the government will be able to anticipate the processes that are currently taking place for a few months. We know the projections. However, there are no measures to control inflation in this additional budget. No action! And the government does not have any other plan to control inflation that would have been disclosed, which we would know. I now have a question, which was also asked by Aivar Chef, but a bit wider. The Government has neither supported nor continued to support the draft initiated by the Fatherland on reducing gas, electricity and indoor heating VAT and reducing petrol and diesel excise duty to the minimum permitted in the European Union. You do not support these tax distinctions. At the same time, you have submitted a draft to reduce VAT to the press from 9% to 5%, the effect of which is actually non-existent, with marginal effects on inflation. Why do you not support the substantive proposals, but formally you are prepared to make tax distinctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U20	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U21	Thank you. First of all, inflation comes from too much money and too little goods. If we read Eesti Pank's assessment, there is also a reason that the Estonian economy has recovered much faster from the pandemic than other euro area countries, and that is also the case with specific figures. Estonia's economic growth was 8.6% last year, the same as the growth of our neighbours Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden was 4.8%, and Finland's economic growth was 3.3%. According to Eesti Pank, the impact of inflation has also been strong wage growth, and NB!, it should now be very important for you to put aside: money taken out of the second pension pillar has added a lot more momentum to the price increase here than in other euro area countries. This is Eesti Pank's assessment of the price increase. So, in fact, you have contributed specifically to this price increase. Now, this indicator of the fastest price increase in the euro area in Estonia is partly linked to different national methodologies. That's what Swedbank says in his analysis. But in saying all of this, I am not saying that the price increase is not high. I might answer Aivar Coke again. I have these Belgian tables in front of me. No, Belgium reduced the VAT on both gas and fuel from 21% to 6%, and the result is that their prices are exactly the same as ours and, in fact, they are even higher in the case of gas. So what I want to say is that this is a direct indication that it does not mean that people would benefit from it, so that it would actually slow down the price increase if they were to be cut significantly by excise duties or VAT. So if you're proposing this, you're going to have to have the other half of this equation. We're going through a very difficult time. There is a war going on in Ukraine that has a direct impact on both our economies and people's livelihoods. We do indeed have high inflation, we have an energy crisis, and the COVID crisis is likely to return in the autumn. This means that we need resources in the state budget more than ever. And that means that if we say that we are not specifically collecting this tax on these products, then we have to solve the other half of this equation: where do we take this money? Are you going to raise any other tax to cover these costs? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U22	Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U23	Thank you. No matter what you ask, I'm afraid you won't get an answer. What measures are there to control inflation in the budget, or what government plans to control inflation, unfortunately, I did not get any response from you. However, Prime Minister, I would ask you to focus on answering the question rather than talking about the points you have prepared in advance. When you answered Helmen Hunt, you said that local authorities must manage themselves, and their budget will also grow as a result of higher prices and better tax receipts. The public budget is expected to receive much more VAT even in the case of reduced VAT, which is our proposal more than was expected when the budget was drawn up. There is, in fact, a resource and the additional money that will be paid into the state budget is, after all, due to the higher prices of people today. And it would also be a reasonable relief for people precisely on the one hand, so that they can cope better, and on the other hand, with this we control inflation and create a more stable economic environment. This is in any case a necessary and sensible proposal. Instead, I am asking about the EUR 50 that is provided for in the supplementary budget as a one-off subsidy for pensioners and children. The Fatherland has proposed that the issue of pensions be resolved much more favourably for pensioners and in a simpler and less bureaucratic manner for the state. We have adopted a law which exempts average pension income tax, which would also result in an extraordinary increase in the base pension. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. If we put it into effect on 1 July this year, six months earlier, pensioners would win much more and this would be a less bureaucratic and easier relief for pensioners. Are you ready to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U24	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U25	Thank you. First of all, I will answer your first question. In all economic theories, there are exactly two tools for controlling inflation: interest rate increases and budget cuts. We are now in a situation where we are facing high inflation and a likely recession due to the war that is going on in Ukraine. And that's the worst combination. Otherwise, if there is high inflation, the state must act counter-cyclically, i.e. tighten up when everyone else spends, and vice versa, if no one spends, the state will spend to keep the economy running. But we're going to have a more complicated situation. And why he's even more complicated is fair enough to say. The reason is that in really good times, when you were in government, for example, you didn't collect buffers to go against bad times. Why do the old folks also say you have to put aside for the black days? These black days are now, but the reserves collected for the black days have been spent in good times, and that is why we are much weaker in this crisis than we have been in the past. This is the difference from previous crises. Now, the income tax exemption for the average pension. Indeed, we have proposed this and I am pleased that the Riigikogu supported the proposal to exempt the average pension from income tax. This will certainly leave more money to pensioners, which will enable them to cope with these price increases. In fact, the whole focus should be that people's wages and incomes are higher than price growth. In previous years, we have managed to ensure that prices have increased less than wages and pensions, but today inflation is indeed exceptionally fast and this [target] is difficult to achieve. Now, with regard to the proposals for an additional budget, this tax exemption will apply from the new year. The focus of the additional budget is on the effects of war, how to cope with these losses, how to invest in defence, how to invest in the protection of the population. So this [amendment] is indeed not intended to be brought forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U26	And now for an additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U27	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! We had the PGS Amendment Act in the Committee on Culture yesterday. You have found yourself in your government that the healthcare system is currently overloaded. The availability of specialist medical care was difficult even before the Ukrainian crisis began, but the arrival of Ukrainian war refugees has increased further and the availability of specialist medical care has also decreased further. We are talking about price increases now, right, within this question, and also in the medical system, there are price increases coming. These same price increases, also in energy, affect everything, just as they affect the medical system. But I'm gonna listen to your answers, and I don't think you're gonna answer me differently if you're childishly saying that it's just a hard time coming, and that's what we all have to take into account. You see, we all know that, don't we? But do you realize that your task as head of government is to do everything you can to prevent our people from getting into trouble, so that our people are not left without help? Blaming others for spending in a situation where you yourself, with this extra budget, make the hundreds of millions go unscathed, is also completely irresponsible and childish. I ask: how does the government intend to ensure that, when we are talking about the health care system that I started my question, the continuity of the functioning of our health care system and, in this respect, the availability of both regular medical care and specialist medical care for our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U28	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U29	Specialized medical care has been a troublemaker even before this war broke out, that's true. Perhaps it is important to point out why this is the case. [This is so] because we have had a COVID crisis for two years. Due to the COVID crisis, hospitals have been overloaded and have had to limit the availability of specialist medical care also because our vaccination levels are low. We know that vaccinated people don't have COVID so badly that they can overload hospitals, but unfortunately, our level of vaccination has been very low. My suggestion and my appeal to you, too, would be that if we went against the fall, you would also call on your people, among whom there are fewer vaccinees, to vaccinate, so that we no longer find ourselves in a situation where we have a hospital network so overloaded that hospitals have to restrict the provision of services. It is clear that when the Ukrainian people, the refugees of war, come to us, they are additional people in our society. This means that we must also provide them with the same services, whether it be specialist medical care, normal medical care or educational services. All of this, of course, is additional to what we offer to our people. I absolutely agree with you that we must do everything to ensure that all the people of Estonia, all the people who are in Estonian society, can cope. So that they can cope with these price increases, including these difficult times. You call it childish, but it's not childish. In fact, this is a very difficult situation where we are now: three different crises that are going on and which, unfortunately, are not going anywhere. Now, to the health care system, we have allocated additional money so that the healthcare system can cope with this additional burden. And, of course, we hope that among those war refugees who have come here, there will also be people who have health skills and who could work there in order to help more people again. But we have the requirements of the Estonian language and they must learn the Estonian language to work there, where the language requirement is important. So the health system definitely needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U30	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U31	Let's move on to question three. It will be presented by Riho Breivel, member of the Riigikogu, and will be answered by Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture, on Narva Vaba Lava and its future. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U32	Good manager! Mr. Minister! The aim of the Vaba Lava Theatre Centre was to revive Narva's cultural life and offer opportunities for local groups and other Estonian and foreign theatres to give guest performances and organise other cultural events. This is precisely with the aim of integrating the Russian-speaking population of Ida-Viru into our value system and also of enhancing the dignity of Estonians by the fact that Estonian troupes also go to Narva and [myjal] Ida-Virumaa. The Theatre Centre is operated by the Foundation Vaba Lava, which rotates its performance programme in Narva and Kohtla-Järve and also brings out new productions. The Narva Theatre Centre is also open to all other Estonian theatres, be they state theatres or city theatres. Narva is the third largest city in Estonia, but the Narva population still lacked stable access to quality culture, which would help strengthen the identity of the Narva people and facilitate integration into the Estonian cultural space. The creation of a theatre centre is important both at regional integration level and at cultural policy level. The mission of the Estonian state must also provide high-quality leisure facilities for residents of Ida-Virumaa and thus integrate the population into the cultural and political space of the Estonian state. This is certainly an objective and must remain an objective. However, we know that the financial situation of the Free Lava is not at all commendable. And it is not commendable that funding has been increased by the Ministry of Culture, as you say in the press, but, in fact, one-off subsidies have decreased and this makes integration through the Free Lava very unfortunately... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U33	Good questioner, your time! Minister Tiit Terik, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U34	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Mr. Breivel! Indeed, your introduction to the question that described the Free Lava and its goals I will sign with two hands. It's very important. It is also very important from the country's perspective that we have a diverse theatre landscape in larger centres as well as in smaller centres. In general, the state can contribute to the theatres and their activities in the same way as the legislative framework, creating opportunities, and more importantly, as you mentioned, of course, by providing money. Over the years, the state has supported the activities of Vaba Lava in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa and helped to build this playground, this location. Of course, the main legal and [alas] framework for funding is to grant annual operating support to both [Free Lava] and other theatres operating in Estonia. If we look at this year's funding, the Commission has decided to allocate EUR 344000 to the Foundation Vaba Lava, who will be in Tallinn and in Narva. And as far as Narva is concerned, speaking of Free Lava, a decision of EUR 115000 has been made to support the construction of a playground. However, what is a bottleneck here is the evaluation criteria which are why we are today in dispute with the foundation. The Commission, which makes proposals to the Minister on the amounts of funding, assesses the national cultural significance and regionality of the [actions]. At meetings with the leaders of the Free Lava, which I have had the opportunity to hold several times, it has also been pointed out that we cannot assess the regional importance of Tallinn and Narva in the same way. But today the foundation is acting as a single body, which has put together both locations. Our proposal has been that if there was a separate legal body in Narva, it would be possible to look at its regional importance separately from Tallinn. As far as the various aspects of integration are concerned, you are absolutely right. This is a very important integration centre in addition to the theatre experience. There are also different ways in which the country can co-finance it under the existing laws that we have and within the limits of the budget that Parliament has approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U35	And now the point to be clarified. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U36	It is clear that we all understand that this is very important for our East Viru County. The question is that we are spending a great deal of resources on integration in our area. What I'm trying to say is that the presence of the Free Lava or the theatres at all brings much more value to integration than what we do out there sometimes with our fingers off. So I would like this funding to definitely grow, and I would like you, in your wandering words, to take the utmost care that this matter is resolved. State theatres still receive much larger resources to justify and sustain their existence, both buildings and groups. We've been thinking here with Saaremäe that Ida-Viru could also make a state theater troupe, but it's not as simple as that. And today we have a Free Lava who could solve this issue. Kohtla-Järve is another place with a black hole. How do you generally look at how we can solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U37	Tiit Terik, how do you come to the aid of this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U38	Thank you. Of course, we come to the aid of this matter according to the resources and legal framework we have. I agree very much with you and agree that Vaba Lava in Ida-Virumaa is certainly an important place to enjoy culture. And the activities that take place there certainly also contribute to integration. Let's take the field of language learning. In addition to the language skills acquired in the courses and classrooms, the language environment in which to practice Estonian is also very important. These activities, which can be carried out in the Vaba Lava premises, include different meetings, language cafés, all of these activities, are also supportive of integration and language learning. In addition, this excellent cultural experience that can be obtained at the free stage [events]. I also very much agree with you that there could be more funding. Yes, it is true that we operate on budget terms for all private theatres who submit their applications and plans to the Ministry of Culture. The Commission shall examine them. The Commission shall be composed of representatives of the performing bodies and officials who shall make proposals. If we had more resources, it would certainly be possible to finance more private theatres. In this regard, we will certainly contribute to the negotiations on the state budget and request more funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U39	Now for an additional question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U40	Thank you! I was so pleased to hear our Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, Mr Ratas, say in solidarity: Minister, perhaps you will come to help Riho Breivel. It shows we're really working together in this house. Excellent! Thank you, George. And, of course, I also liked the honourable minister's statement that of course I'm coming to help. There is no doubt that the future of Narva Vaba Lava and its future is extremely important, but I would like to come back to our Monday debate when your presentation on the country's long-term development strategy took place. If you remember, I think you remember, I touched the case of Paides, Paide Vallimäe, where during the ancient works, a unique five-chamber lime kiln from the 14th century emerged. And then, unfortunately, it happened that by the decision of one heritage officer, a single person, this unique building was demolished with a bucket. I think it's a very dramatic event. I'm not naming that officer right now. And some kind of multifunctional schoolhouse was built in place, for which there would have been enough places in different regions of Paide City. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of the Reform Party, even planned it [for others]. Here is the question now: will you take this issue into your daily work programme to find out the real causes of [the events] and to make sure that such circumstances do not happen any more? I think it's a criminal act, the destruction of a cultural monument.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U41	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U42	Thank you. Mr. Grünthal! I take the prayers and concerns and observations of the members of the Riigikogu very seriously and the case you brought out in Central Estonia has already been discussed in the house. And as I replied to you on Monday, I can also reply today, on the basis of the specified information, that the decision of one person in such a course of action, i.e. that an object [to assess] as inferior or excluded from protection is not legitimate. And we will certainly have enough to resolve and investigate this issue. We're gathering additional information. And it is also true that your claim that the destruction of heritage is criminally punishable. If your claim finds evidence, of course you should look at it from here. But your concern is well known to us, and I can assure you that my colleagues will collect additional data and, if this picture is clearer, I will certainly inform you as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U43	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U44	Let's move on to question four. Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is budgetary choices. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U45	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! The additional budget during the crisis, of course, must have a clear focus, just as it was during the corona crisis, then now in the same way: security, war refugees and coping. It is right and beautiful. More cynical colleagues in this Chamber, on the other hand, see signs of approaching elections. For example, during this year's budget discussions, the topic was the timing of the extraordinary rise in pensions. [This could have been done] from 1 April 2022 with indexation. Given that the April price increase was indeed record 19%, we now know, as a consequence, that this extraordinary 20-euro pension increase would have taken great advantage of the Estonian pensioners, especially as 50% of the elderly live in relative poverty. But the tide will come two months before the election. Similar proposals for specially labelled diesel, which have come from the opposition, have not been supported in the past. And if the aim is to lower the prices of inputs in order to curb the overall price increase, then it would be more important for diesel to make such a decision. In the case of specially labelled diesel, I am very pleased about farmers and oil shale producers, because the specially labelled diesel excise duty will be lower than the opposition has ever dreamed of. Excellent move! But what's the motivation? And now, lastly, this EUR 50 much-needed supplement for families with children and for the elderly, as well as for those who have lost their ability to work. This is certainly necessary. But the price increase, even if it improves, does not fall to old levels. This single injection really doesn't provide any relief. But, for example, raising the tax-free minimum to a minimum wage, which would be a measure that permanently reduces inequalities, has not found government support. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why have such choices been made in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U46	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U47	Thank you. It is true that next March will be an election. In this respect, all of this can also be assessed in the key that elections are coming, and everywhere you can see this ghost, that all actions are based on the fact that elections are coming. However, the focus of this extra budget is still security in this key that, in fact, the crisis that has erupted in the form of war in Ukraine has brought us entirely new concerns. First of all, there is concern about the protection of our own country. It must be strengthened in the light of the lessons we can learn from Ukraine in order to be stronger ourselves. And we need to think about what steps we must take to strengthen our collective defence, NATO's defence, so that more of the allies' forces can be here. Secondly, all matters relating to the protection of the population. These are additional budget options, as well as energy security, which is inevitably a large part of all security, so that we can be independent of Russian gas and oil and that our rooms are still warm in the autumn. The additional budget also covers expenditure directly related to the effects of the Ukrainian war, which concerns expenditure on refugees, as well as an increase in the level of subsistence. And there really is a buffer for the fall. Now the question is, why by autumn? Yeah, it's hard already. It is difficult, the price increases have been very high, but since we actually see that more difficult times are yet to come, we need to see how and how much we can support everyone. Going against the autumn, we are talking about energy prices, especially electricity prices, which led to these shocks in the autumn and winter. The fact that the Riigikogu passed a law that also gives the opportunity to fix its price, I think, is very positive. And in the summer we have to deal with it so that people can defend themselves by fixing prices at a lower level, in order to avoid the stress of rising prices. But, yeah, those are the choices. However, we cannot solve all our concerns with an additional budget. This is not a budget that concerns all areas. Of course, you can always criticize that one thing or another is little, but these are the possibilities that are currently there. And really, we're trying to make sure no one gets left behind and nobody gets hit too much. But we can't say we can pay for everything. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U48	Good fellows! We will continue to be on the subject of budgetary choices and the question we are clarifying will be asked by Riina Sikku. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! I completely agree, it is not possible to pay everything off with subsidies, and we must be prepared that this war situation will last longer and that the effect of the price increase will be longer. That is why I asked why the budget made such choices that the special-marked diesel excise duty would be temporarily reduced to a very low level for seven months, and then this rate will rise five times again. And 50 euros in one-off pay instead of, for example, raising the income tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. This would mean an additional EUR 30 per month for the minimum wage servant, EUR 360 per year. We would value keeping people in work, their contribution and reduce the burden on the social sector in the long term. It is very difficult to cope with the minimum wage, not to mention in the context of 19% inflation. Instead, [could] have made a one-off 30-million-dollar cost and found a solution that would carry us over the next few years. Secondly, these decisions on the LNG terminal in the additional budget, refugee accommodation 44 million, bounty for schools 44 million, excellent. I think these are all very necessary decisions, the very necessary money goes to the right place. But, in addition to making these financing decisions, how are the rest of the decisions taken so that we can actually get this terminal, that these places of study are available and that these accommodations are available? I take it this isn't about money, it's about that bottleneck somewhere else? There are not really these places of study and accommodation and there are no political decisions that real risks that can only be taken out by the government for the founders of the terminal have been removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U50	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U51	Thank you. There were now actually a lot of questions or a lot of topics. I'm trying to answer. The reduction in the excise duty on special labelled diesel is very much linked to food security. We know that there is a great deal of grain in Ukraine now, because it cannot be transported out by ships. Together, we are also looking for solutions to use the railways to produce grain. But the reduction in excise duty on specially labelled fuel is precisely in order to reduce the burden on our farmers. It's actually part of food security. Now, raising the minimum income tax rate or repeating the income tax system. I absolutely agree with you that it should be that people's salaries are actually higher and that they do not need support, but can earn so much that it covers the rise in prices. The simple problem with the additional budget is that these amounts are very different in size. The reduction in income tax means different orders of magnitude, plus it has to be foreseen every year precisely because we have to have this money somewhere. Now, as far as the LNG terminal and the study places are concerned, with the LNG terminal, it is my view that this kind of bombardment is taking place in the press. There is, of course, a private operator's interest, which is that the state would pay all losses, take all risks and they would take profits. But it cannot be the interest of the state, because it still comes from the taxpayer's pocket. For us, it is important that these agreements can be concluded that, in fact, the private sector, the specific private sector companies that have received quite a lot of public support during the COVID period, would now come in solidarity [with], not requiring an absolute maximum, pressing the state into its revenue, but actually contributing to it. These negotiations are ongoing. We're planning on discussing this in the government office on Thursday. Now for the study places. The Minister of Education is in constant contact with local governments and we are working to create these places. I agree with you that, since so much more is needed, the state must play its part here, but the problem is also that in fact, not all children are there in the education information system, so that we know where these places really need to be built. That's the constant work the Ministry of Education and Research is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U52	And now for an additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'd like to clear up this conversation about "baby." I didn't say, and the verbatim report certainly doesn't make it clear at a later reading that I think that I am childish in our medical system and in access to medical care already present and in relation to those arriving from Ukraine. I said that you are childish when you, when you answer questions, simply reject responsibility for the situation for external reasons, whether the war in Ukraine or the action of the previous government, saying something like that, oh, it's really hard for me, oh, poor thing, to sympathize with me in these difficult times. However, if we go to the question of budgetary choices, we can clearly see that the additional budget still has little to do with internal security, given the circumstances. And this is also reflected or reflected very clearly in the strange statements made by the Director-General of the PBA, where he now asks not to come out with the Estonian flag during a certain period of time, because obviously the situation may get out of hand, he probably does not have enough resources to deal with it. And he said in the interview that he did not recommend provocative use of the Estonian flag either. I ask whether waving the Estonian flag is or is not a provocation. Is there a certain time in Estonia, a certain territory, a certain place, or near it, allowed to walk around with the flag of Estonia, or are we really in a position, as the Director-General of the PBA said, that in the 30th year of independence, we have some territorial areas in Estonia that are not allowed to go with the flag of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U54	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U55	Thank you. Yeah, I'm really sorry, I understand you called these crises childish, but you call me childish. I just want to say in this case that there are different levels of argumentation, and the lowest level is that a person is being attacked. The next level is that you attack style, and the higher levels of argumentation or debate are the ones where you answer the argument with argument and justify your views. I would very much like to see the Riigikogu still debating at a level where the person is not specifically touched, not in style, but in content. I think that would be a very welcome development. As far as the Estonian flag is concerned, the Estonian flag is dear to all of us. Unlike your supporters, our supporters have a very clear view that the Tall Hermann Tower should, in any case, fly a blue-black-white flag, not any other flag. This is what our pride and pride are. And that blue black white everywhere is actually used with pride. What's positive? The positive thing is that this war has actually brought perhaps even more flag awareness in some places. I mean, for example, Ida-Viru County. When I visited Ida-Virumaa, many of the Russian-speaking population were also upset by the use of Ukrainian flags, the flag of Narva being very similar to the Ukrainian flag. But it's just a side comment. At the same time, the Russian-speaking people said what, our flag is blue black and white. I think it is a positive development that our foreign-language population is increasingly feeling that it is our community, that is where we belong. They too feel the emotional connection with Estonia. This, in my opinion, is an important development. And that's how we should take it, that actually here in Estonia, we're going to be working together, and we're going to be together wearing blue black and white with pride, and we're going to pull it into the flagpole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U56	There are several procedural questions here. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. In fact, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Spic, in particular, on the fact that he has sometimes set up a house of order, and also in the direction of the Prime Minister. And I am pleased that the Prime Minister, in answering this question, made a very nice self-critical statement, commenting on the Riigikogu's discussion culture in the introduction to his reply, because personalised verbal attacks and insults have also come from him a great deal, and the honourable speaker has drawn attention to this on several occasions. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U58	Thank you. A procedural question, Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U59	Thank you! I have a request to the speaker that you may give the Prime Minister, at the beginning of the next question, an opportunity to answer the question put by Mr Helme. I did not receive an answer as to whether the Estonian flag could be used anywhere or whether [it] is restricted territories and limited time, since it can be used and should not be used. Maybe he'll answer that at the start of the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U60	Thank you. I don't have that chance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U61	Let us move on to question five. Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is energy security. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! At the moment, it seems to me that the Reform Party government is able to move the same bucket for the second time: the same way as in 2014, when the construction of the LNG terminal was abandoned for the benefit of the Finns. Today's security situation and the price of Russian gas have created a situation in which the government should clearly state that gas produced in Russia will not be consumed in Estonia next year. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to build the LNG reception infrastructure by autumn, the connection to the gas pipeline, the lease of the LNG vessel, the purchase of sufficient quantities of [Liquefied] gas. If we wanted LNG to be ready for [infrastructure] by autumn and the ship bought for reception, then the government would have had to take the relevant decisions by March at the latest. We know that prices are rising every day. Alexela had already provided pre-bookings for the ship in March, [leaved] gas as well as metal used for the construction of infrastructure. But before a final decision is made, the state should have a clear plan. At the moment, it seems that the Prime Minister has made it clear that a LNG reception point should be built. The Minister of Economic Affairs has been ordered. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has ordered Elering. In fact, no decisions or agreements have been signed today. Now I see that the additional budget is EUR 170 million. Thus, at a price 1.7 times higher than today's market price, there is an opportunity to buy 1 sharp gas for security of supply. But it must not be Russian gas. We know that since 25 February Lithuania has said that Latvia, Estonia and Finland will not get gas through them. I now wonder that Estonia's gas needs are 5 sharps per year. Elering has said that there is no need for this quay, no need for a LNG reception according to the Chairman of Elering. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What is the cover of this 4 sharps?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U63	Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U64	Thank you. First of all, the government has decided that we are abandoning Russian gas. Such a decision has been made in the government. You're not in the government, I'm in the government, I say we've made that decision. Please check the protocols, such a decision has been made. That's one. Secondly, we have decided to acquire a gas supply of 1 terawatt-hours. Yes, Estonia's annual gas consumption is 5 terawatt-hours per year, 1 terawatt-hours we collect in Inčukalns gas storage in Latvia. Now, as far as the price of gas is concerned, of course we have foreseen money for this gas supply. I agree with you, and such a guideline was also given that the gas supply, of course, must be purchased at the lowest possible price. This money may not all come in handy for this, but it is provided with a buffer, given what these prices are. In any case, given the rules in force in Estonia, it [is still sought to buy] as cheaply as possible. As for the false claims you make that the Reform Party has opposed something and so on. That's the wrong argument. In October 2015, Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Reform Party, approved the projects to be submitted to the CEF energy call for proposals. [These were] Balticconnector, a gas pipeline that is ready and connects Estonia to Finland today, the Karksi Compressor Station and the Paldiski LNG terminal. These three things were submitted by the Reform Party government to the Connecting Europe Facility. So I'm asking you not to make these false claims. Now, as far as the specific LNG reception capability is concerned, we have decided that where this Balticconnector is, a connection must be established with a possible hauling dock. The location of the wharf is indeed owned by a private operator and therefore negotiations are currently under way for this agreement. The hauling dock means that a ship with the possibility of regasification can be accepted. With regard to the rental of this ship, we have agreements with Finland precisely because Finland's consumption is 30 terawatt-hours per year, Estonia's consumption is 5 terawatt-hours, and we can work together to make sure that this ship comes to Estonia first and then goes to Finland. And, in any case, our connection with Finland will ensure that gas supply will be available. Tomorrow, i.e. Thursday, we will have another debate in the government office, an overview of the state of play on how far this agreement is being reached. I understand you're in contact with Alexela's people who are currently giving you instructions on what else to ask. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I say that it is our wish to have these agreements in any case, and I hope that the private sector will have solidarity with the country and will be opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U65	Prime Minister, your time, too, has passed 20 seconds. Let's move on, now there's a very specific question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U66	Thank you. First of all, I'm not in touch with Alexela, but I've found [one thing] to disprove your claim that I'm lying. On 25 October 2014, Postimees: "Taavi Rõivas sold the LNG terminal to Finland'. "The Finnish experienced Prime Minister, Alexander Stubb, had only a brief meeting of the corridor with Taavi Rõivas in Brussels on Thursday to force the young brother to give up the interests of Estonia. " It was 2014. And I also spoke about my question from 2014. The other side is that please do not lie that there is no alternative to gas, which cannot come from Russia, if it is not welcome this autumn. There is no LNG reception in Finland. You didn't answer what would be: 1 sharp and need 5 sharp. Today, Elering has been assigned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to solve this problem. It's been going on for over a month. There's no solution today. There's no deal. Yes, I know construction is in progress, but there are no agreements and there is no solution how Inčukalns should get gas that is not from Russia. Isn't that the solution today? The only option is perhaps buying gas at a price of 1.7 times from Poland and Lithuania. Is this security of supply for Estonian consumers when gas is purchased at ten times the price last year? Are these prices to be paid by the final consumer? Please reject that, in 2014, your party's Prime Minister did not make such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U67	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U68	Thank you. Look, 2015 is later than 2014. You are talking about 2014; I am talking about the decisions made in October 2015, which I read here. In fact, I guess you're not lying, and I'm not lying, either, because 2015 is later than 2014. And those decisions that will be taken later will go over the decisions that have been taken before. That's one. Secondly, we have now also completed the connection of the Polish‐Lithuania gas pipeline GIPL. That's one thing. Lithuania also has a LNG terminal. We have negotiated solidarity agreements on gas with Lithuania, Latvia and Finland. What does that mean? This means that it would not be the case that, for example, in Lithuania, all factories rent at full capacity while working on gas, while Estonian households do not have enough gas. We share and have solidarity with each other in this sense, so that everyone has the opportunity. Ways to get LNG are naturally being sought around the world. The European Commission is working on this in order to carry out joint procurement, as by the end of this year the European Commission's interest is to replace two thirds of Russian gas with LNG and other suppliers [gas]. We are also part of it so that it comes from different sources. Of course, the increase in gas prices to which you refer has been very significant. Indeed, 36% of the price of gas has risen in the last month. This is directly linked to Putin's war in Ukraine and its pressure on Europe. Yeah, gas may be expensive, but freedom is priceless, which is why all these things are connected. Of course, we're trying to get gas, and we're doing all we can to build this same LNG hauling dock in Paldiski. These negotiations are ongoing and, as I said, the government will deal with this issue again tomorrow and will get an overview. I hope that both the state and the private sector will understand their role in this crisis and we will be able to do these things in cooperation. And that we can also do these things in cooperation with our Finnish and Latvian colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U69	And now one more question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U70	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. My question concerns security. Elmar Vaher, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, recommends not to use the Estonian flag provocatively, has said ERR, and explains Vaher's statement: we want to avoid the situation that the police take the Estonian flag away from the person. Vaher said he believed that provocations with the Estonian flag could come. My question is. Please explain, Prime Minister, how it is possible to perform provocations with the Estonian flag on Estonian territory and how it is possible for the police to take the Estonian flag from the person on Estonian territory!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U72	Thank you. The main issue is energy security, but all right. As I have already replied to your colleague Helle-Moonika Helme: there is an Estonian flag in Estonia that we are all proud of and that everyone can use. And I do not know of cases where the flag of the Republic of Estonia would have been taken away from anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U74	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Kert Kingo, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the Prime Minister's duties. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Of course, we did not get an answer to either the Helle-Moonika Helme question or the question of Kalle Grünthal. But during your prime ministership, a forced vaccination has been carried out against our people, an opportunity has been created to release people from work on this basis, and people have been deprived of their income. As head of government, you have violated people's freedom of decision and their constitutional rights. On your initiative, the police have repeatedly shown aggression towards their own people, attacked them physically, instigated dogs on them, detained people solely because they dared to protest. You have repeatedly brought people to the streets by your actions. You have brought electricity, gas and fuel prices to the ceiling to carry out your exciting green turn, giving rise to 19% inflation, resulting in price increases in all areas. You've done everything you can to maximise the cost of living. With your government, the people are moving or have already partially moved into poverty and misery. People are depressed and the future is black. You've done all of this in less than a year and a half. In your oath in this Parliament almost a year and a half ago, you promised to take responsibility for the Republic of Estonia and remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia. Please now tell the people of Estonia, taking into account all the above, how you have done so. What is the responsibility to the Estonian state, and what is your loyalty to the constitutional order, in what acts? People want to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U76	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U77	Thank you. Your description raises the question of which country you live in. You don't seem to love Estonia. Your Estonia seems to be a horrible place. One horrible place seems to be the Estonia you are describing. I live in a different Estonia. I live in Estonia, which is very beautiful and where there are good people living, where the police guarantee the security of people, where vaccination is actually voluntary, where freedom of the press is the fifth place in the world from the level of freedom of the press, where the freedom of demonstrations is. Everyone can protest, talk about what they want, be against the government if they want to. None of this is gonna happen. I mean, I live in a country I love. In any case, I love this Estonia, but this Estonia, which you describe, I honestly do not recognise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U78	Now let's go to the procedural questions. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U79	Thank you, Honorable Speaker. Have I misunderstood that the point of Question Time is that the ambassadors can ask the Minister or the Prime Minister, and the minister or Prime Minister who is being asked should answer, not the other way round, that the Prime Minister is asking the ambassador and that the ambassador cannot even answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U80	Thank you. The point of Question Time is that members of the Riigikogu ask and the members of the government answer. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U81	Yeah, thanks! I'll take it from here. Do we have a procedural option that the Prime Minister himself will ask and answer, as he has just done? He himself asked the question and then began to answer, and completely inadequately, creating, as in any way, I do not know how many Estonias here in his opinion, where our people live, where he lives or where someone else lives or where his retired father lives. Maybe you'll make a note that this "I ask, I answer" is not the format of this event.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U82	Thank you. I'll stick to the answer I told Kert Kingo. And, of course, I understand that your question is not rhetorical, sometimes in our answers, or also in the questions [we will] ask ourselves a rhetorical question, and then we will move on from there. So how does anyone understand it, that understanding is in the eyes and ears of the listener, as they say. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U83	Thank you, Mr President, I rushed right back to the hall...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U84	I saw you hurry. I saw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U85	... and the question is that I believe you are misinterpreting the procedure for answering questions. Namely, this wise yellow book, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, explains nicely: the task of the Question Time Manager is to assess whether the question concerns the problem mentioned in the application and whether the question has received a sufficient answer to stop dealing with it. In both cases, you have a discretion in identifying this fact. I refer to this because, in my opinion, Kaja Kallas did not answer that question at the moment. You may find that he still responded to that, of course, that is your discretion, but in fact, the chair of the sitting should pay attention to this problem. Of course, I must also congratulate you on the fact that you have done so a few times. We would expect the same continuity [even now].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U86	Thank you. I have used this discretion five times here in the last hour and 17 minutes and have closed the matter. It is true that this also required an agreement with you that we would make an additional question and an additional question. Five times the questions are closed. And now we're in a situation where there's a particular question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Terrible events broke out in February of this year. Russia started its aggression in Ukraine, started a war, not a military conflict, as you and other members of the government call it. Of course, the country that is the target of aggression must be fully and as much as possible assisted. Just as much as possible. That is what we have done as a country. Estonia has supported Ukraine with more than 200 million euros, with which we are at the forefront of supporters, despite the fact that we are a small country with a population of just over 1 million people, among other great powers. This is a generous and very grand contribution. In addition, we have been very helpful in receiving and supporting war refugees. You have given them many advantages compared to your people. But it must not be forgotten that at the same time our own country, the Estonian state, and its own people, also exist. In the heat of great help, their people have been pushed into the background. They are left secondary; they do not receive benefits or preferential treatment; they must see for themselves how to cope in everyday life. There is a perceived inequality. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, you have neglected your own people. In your oath, which you gave in this Parliament almost a year and a half ago, you also promised to devote your strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. Now, please explain, especially in the light of today's state of your commitment. What welfare measures have you done specifically for the Estonian people? With what specific actions have you secured the future of the Estonian people? Explain to the people this moral compass.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U88	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U89	Thank you. First of all, I will adjust that Russia started the war in 2014, not in February this year. It must also be borne in mind that Ukraine has had this war since then. And I don't know where you think I'm calling it a military conflict or whatever. I've been talking about this all along. I'm absolutely not getting behind any words the way you're trying to do. I'm not gonna do that. What have we done to protect the Estonian people? In this particular crisis, we are doing the welfare of the Estonian people in the ninmel that we are helping Ukraine so that this war does not come here. It is very clearly in the interests of the Estonian people, the survival of Estonia's independent state, so that this war does not extend any further so that Russia, as an aggressor, can get against the nose so properly that they no longer have any additional imperialist thoughts. What else have we done? I have brought Estonia back to the map of the world. We are equal allies in NATO and the European Union, we no longer insult these allies, and therefore we are taken as equal partners, we are listened to. We are also being heard about what needs to be done in order to strengthen our protection here, so that people have the certainty that it is safe here, this war does not come here, and we can move forward here as we have done. Now, there's a few more things I want to fix. My colleague, the Minister of Culture, pointed out to me that Estonia has not moved from freedom of the press to a fourth place. This means that we have more freedom than we have before. Secondly, the fact that you brought out an energy turn on your question, as if it was a bad thing. On the contrary, renewable energy is still the cheapest energy, so it is actually a positive thing. The government works every day for the well-being of the Estonian people. He is working to make it safe for everyone to have the certainty that businesses can deliver. We have kept society open, as a result of which the economy in Estonia has grown by 8.6%. As a result, wages have increased, people's incomes have increased and life in Estonia has improved. But by saying all this, I also admit that difficult times are ahead. Your colleague will not allow this to be mentioned, but it is the case that difficult times are ahead because of the crises we are experiencing. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U90	And now one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Yeah, of course, I don't get tired of praising myself. But I tell you, with the money of the Estonian state and the people, you are back on the map of the world. You go to interviews everywhere and you say, "I gave the money, I give the money, I give the money, I give the money." (Echo Kallas intersects: "Do not speak! ") But let's move on to the question. The question is about the Prime Minister's duties, and I will still come back to this issue. The Prime Minister's duties also clearly include commenting on his subordinates' words and actions, making assessments. The Director General of the PBA has said that the use of the Estonian flag in the context of 9 May is a provocation. I would ask you, as Head of Government, to make a clear and concise reply, whether or not you agree with Elmar Vaher's specific position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U92	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U93	Thank you. In short, I understand that somehow it bothers you that Estonia is back on the map. But it is good and the people of Estonia actually support it. Over 60% of the Estonian population supports government activities, which is quite a high figure. There's one more thing I want to sort out. I don't know, maybe this [question] comes from language skills, but yes, I am not talking about myself, but I am talking about Estonia, of course, and what Estonia has done. I don't understand why that's why you're doing this... [[There's something going on in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] If you scream while I'm talking, it's very difficult to answer you. I'm trying to answer you, but it's complicated to yell at you. Why does it bother you so much that Estonia is actually back at these tables? All in all, it is a question of our security that we are not calling on our allies, but we are actually working with them and we are being listened to. It is important that this war does not come here, so that the suffering that is in Ukraine does not come here, and we can continue with everything we are used to here. And once again, on your question, the Estonian flag is honoured everywhere in Estonia. We are very proud of blue black and white and can be used exactly in accordance with the rules of the Estonian Flag Act. So this is the procedure in force in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U94	A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! I listened to this briefing in my office, and I must say, of course, that your flinch, your arrogance, your personal attacks and insults at the questioners are totally unacceptable. Which of our supporters do not want the Estonian flag in the Tall Hermann Tower? What kind?! If you mean Varro Vooglaid, then Varro Vooglaid said very clearly: he is unbearable with the scum that your government is doing under this flag. That was the idea, not to take out Estonia's blue black and white. Now, you are also wrong about the fact that no one in Estonia has ever been taken away from the blue-black-white flag. In 2007, the police removed people with a blue black and white flag from the bronze man. One was Jüri Böhm and the other was Jüri Estam. Twice, people with a blue black and white flag have been removed, treating it as a provocation. So your talk about the fact that in Estonia you can always wear a blue black and white flag anywhere without fear of repression is not true. And I understand you're squirming about taking a stand against Elmar Vaher. But I can take the poison, knowing you, the spine of your government, that if really someone goes to the inner city cemetery on 9 May, the police will take this person out with blue black and white. And this is the duality of your government. "Slava Ukraine!" you can then scream with impunity, but the tail is drawn between your legs when you have to fight. Please stop tagging and blaming the arrogant questioners! Otherwise, I'm gonna start taking procedural questions all the time and punching you in the nose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U96	I have a request for everyone here, first of all, we must respect the members of the Riigikogu, we must respect the members of the government. Of course, I understand from the members of the Riigikogu that if there is a question, there must be an answer to this question, and that is certainly what the members of the government do. I very much hope that this was a figurative saying, of course, I do not support in any way. Well, now we have, Kert Kingo, addressed your question. That's right. This is the discretion your fellow official spoke of.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U97	Question seven. Ivari Padar, this is the subject that you have presented to us and that is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. This is a matter of security of gas supply. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U98	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There's one thing I want to be clear about here. The government is clearly very busy looking for alternatives to Russian gas. It is clear that the possible unloading points in Paldiski have been the subject of the issue, and they are also the subject of further budget processing. On the other hand, our colleagues, in particular the EKRE, have said that the government is doing nothing because there is this possibility of unloading in Paldiski. Reference has been made to the Northern Port of Paldiski. Give me some clarity, please! If it's a difficult time of war, the less suspicious information is available, the better. It's kind of like talking things out. So, what's it really like? Is Paldiski capable of receiving that gas today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U99	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U100	Thank you, good questioner! Good speaker! The brief answer to this question is no: today Paldiski does not have this capacity. And the best thing to know is that it is not possible, in a short schedule, to create such capacity in the Northern Port of Paldiski, which we are talking about in this case. There are several reasons for this. The first reason concerns the possibility of a connection between the Northern Port and the existing gas pipeline. For all FSRU solutions just as FSRU is the basis for storage and reclassification of the gas, a pipeline must be built. The requirements of this plumbing shall comply with category D. This requires quite thorough construction and design, but no valid planning for such a connection exists. The second reason why it is not possible to do so in a short period of time relates to the fact that [any side] of FSRU's location is also relevant to the planning of LNG, but no such plan has been made at the Northern Port. So for this reason too, it is clear that it would not work as a quick solution. In addition, it is also a matter that there should be no economic activity or residents within a 500-metre radius. And the third reason is that there is no navigational project. In order to ensure the safety of FSRU, it is important that there is a plan for crisis situations, as well as a so-called escape route, so that if something happens, this ship can be moved from there. Such a project, in turn, requires coordination and these coordination takes months. And we don't have months, as we all know. Fourth reason: The Northern Port has claimed that they have the basis, i.e. the same FSRU, while no written evidence has been provided. And the last reason: there is no clarity as to what the connection between the ship and the quay would technically look like. There are therefore five reasons why such a solution cannot be used in the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U101	Your particular question, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U102	Thank you! Actually, I don't even want to ask any more, thank you very much for your answer. That's how it's off the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U103	You don't want to ask me any more? Got it. It's your choice. And with discretion, I will stop dealing with this issue. Ivar Padar, you okay with that? This subject is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U104	Let's move on to question eight. Üllar Saaremäe, member of the Riigikogu, meets the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik and the topic is integration. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is also your area of responsibility to learn the language of adults. There is no need to make too many words to describe the complexity of the current situation. Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, you gave a pretty thorough overview of this. Unfortunately, the current format does not allow for such a thorough overview, but perhaps you could describe what are the most serious problems in adult language learning? And one of the most basic questions: Are there still teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U106	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U107	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I will begin by answering your question from the point of view of this end. There are few teachers. Teachers are few, teachers are overloaded, not only in adult language learning, but also in school systems and kindergartens. There are few teachers, and we must pay very clear attention to this if we take any steps in our activities. In 2019 the National Audit Office also drew attention to this problem, if I remember correctly, by addressing language learning. If we are now talking about adult language learning, which is indeed the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and the Foundation for Integration does so, then the resources that are being channelled there are in today's view [two types]. First of all, the funds are available for courses in the Estonian language of people who have already been in Estonia for a longer time. They have had the opportunity to learn Estonian here over the years, if not to say it over the decades. And there is another category, these are Ukrainian war refugees. If we look at the figures for 2020, it is the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture who have received 15 000 participants in language training. In 2021 it has been of the same size, i.e. 14000. Have these resources been sufficient? I think there's always more. We know very well that our budgetary support for this education has not been as great as our interest in language courses. Speaking about language learning for people who have fled here from war, in order to support their integration into the Estonian cultural space, Estonian society, it is important to teach them the Estonian language. To this end, we have calculated and prepared everything so that up to 10,000 refugees can learn Estonian during the summer. This amount of money is currently in the supplementary budget of the Riigikogu. Our very clear interest as a country is that all people who live in Estonia can speak Estonian as well as possible. It certainly supports their ability to cope in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U108	Now for a more specific question, Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to take the numbers from here. In total, Estonia has been adopting 35371 Ukrainian war refugees since 27 February. That's what they tell me, is confirmed by the knowledgeable people. Of the beneficiaries of international protection, 4280 were registered yesterday. I'm sure that's going to increase. Most of these registered people are people with higher education, but as we know, it is very important for many positions to know the Estonian language and the lack of its language skills makes it impossible for them to start working immediately. The additional budget shows that only 0.25 million are allocated for e-learning and 0.14 million for training Estonian language teachers. So the question is very simple. Do you consider the money available to be sufficient to ensure sufficient training in the Estonian language for war refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U110	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U111	Thank you. Your reference in this sense is correct, that resources are never sufficient. As far as the role of the Ministry of Culture in language learning is concerned, we are in the role of the so-called client and finance these courses, where both war refugees and other persons who do not speak Estonian as their native language can learn Estonian. As far as the preparation of Estonian language teachers is concerned, that is not what our Ministry is doing. There is certainly a question here in the education system. I think that the number of teachers being prepared in our higher education institutions could certainly be higher. I also think that we should have paid more attention to this issue over three decades. There are, of course, very different aspects, such as whether people choose this specialty or not and what the curriculum offered by universities is. But there is certainly a very clear need in our society for teachers whose preparation would be to teach Estonian to those whose native language it is not. So speaking about adult learning, talking about schoolchildren, talking about early childhood education, we must, of course, look at the education sector as a country, so that the number of people who are able to provide education in Estonian [would be sufficient]. And also for those language courses that we want to offer to those who have moved here for one reason or another, there should be greater resources. It should certainly be very much represented in our focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U112	And now for an additional question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U113	Good manager! Good minister! Speaking of integration, there should be 50,000 Ukrainians around Midsummer Day. I am not going to ask what [the amount] is in the supplementary budget, but has the government discussed how to integrate this society into Estonian society, or is there an idea that they will return soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U114	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U115	Thank you. Of course, the government has wondered how those people who have moved to Estonia for one reason or another can cope here. This is not an important issue from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture alone, although we are responsible for integration. I know that a good colleague of the Minister for the Environment has discussed in his administration how to provide environmental education to the war refugees in Ukraine who have arrived here. Of course, from the perspective of the Ministry of Education and Research, summer youth camps and student chess activities are very important. Certainly, local authorities also take it as a very important issue to manage war refugees in Estonia. I can say from here that my sense as a citizen is that our society is very clearly helpful to the people who have come to Estonia. The Ministry of Culture also has good partners with all the different cultural organisations of national minorities. The Ukrainians have quite several dozen associations in Estonia; they are concentrated in two cultural umbrella organisations. Our association and association with them were good and intense even before the active phase of the war broke out on 24 February. Before this period, I also had reason and opportunity to meet with the leaders of cultural organisations and to discuss the fact that, when the black scenarios that we are now seeing apply, what is the readiness of these people to learn Estonian and also attend training courses of adaptation and residence. The response of the representatives of the Ukrainian community was very clear: yes, out of respect for this country we are going through language courses, we are going through an adaptation program to manage here as best as possible on our own, and as soon as the situation allows, we will return home. If we look at how many war refugees have started to move back to Ukraine, for example, from Poland, then it can also give us an idea of what the behaviour of Ukrainians will be like here in Estonia. Home is expensive, and when possible, people usually return home.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U116	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U117	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by Merry Aart, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, on the subject of security. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The security situation is quite complicated at the moment, and I have received quite a few letters and a number of messages in this regard, which is why I have two questions for you. I will ask the second question as an additional or more specific question. I would simply add that our lives here are also being monitored in other countries, by Estonians in Finland, Sweden and Norway. On 29 April you have said in Tartu Postimees that the security situation in Estonia and Norway is the same. The Norwegians are discussing whether this is a reality or whether it is a wishful thinking. Is your claim based on some kind of security authority's assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U119	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U120	Thank you. It was a [reference] to the fact that I gave an interview to the Norwegian daily newspaper. The journalist asked if you were afraid of Estonia. I asked if you were scared in Norway. He said why we should be afraid. I told you you had a border with Russia. Yes, it is. We also have a border with Russia. You're a member of NATO? Yes, Norway is a member of NATO. Estonia is also a member of NATO. If Norway isn't scared, neither are we. In fact, [thank you] that we are a member of NATO, we are on the same boat as Norway. From a security point of view, we are in exactly the same situation. What do I mean by that? What I want to say is that since we are NATO members and NATO [in agreement] is Article 5, which says that an attack on one against one is automatically an attack on everyone, it is a deterrent, which also works in the direction of Russia. And just as it works in Norway, it works in Estonia. And it is important to emphasise that. What we see is that they say it's more dangerous here. No, we do not see a direct military threat beyond our borders now, and that is why we want the economy to be able to move forward so that tourists come here. This is an important part of our economy. Everything has to work. So in this respect, I am absolutely sticking to my words: from a security point of view, Norway and Estonia are actually in the same conditions in this crisis. And I think it is also important to say in other parts of the world that this is not just our problem, because we are, like, east of NATO; it is a security problem for the whole of Europe. We are in this together, and we must look together for solutions to strengthen our defences and thus provide greater deterrence to prevent Russia from having any thoughts in our direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U121	More question, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U122	Thank you. The second question comes about Estonia. And it is such a question that we are as advocates in imposing sanctions on Russia. We have talked about this very much, and we have always favoured it and made proposals. But at the same time in our waters there's a Russian fuel transfer. I have a message from Petrograd that yesterday a tanker came somewhere near Viimsi. And Viimsi even has fuel wagons that come from Petrograd and stop traffic. They ask what it is. These cars don't come from America, they come from Petrograd. How, then, should we view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U123	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U124	Thank you. With regard to sanctions, we have been of the opinion that, in order for sanctions to be effective, they must be very clearly aimed at what is most damaging to the Russian war machine, that is to say, what takes money from the war machine so that it cannot wage this war in Ukraine. 40% of the Russian budget comes from [oil], from the sale of gas and coal, i.e. this is an area where sanctions need to be directed. So far, five packages of sanctions have been imposed and ships are subject to sanctions. What's the problem? That's the problem. We have just talked about groups of goods because the current sanctions concern vessels flying the Russian flag. Those ships flying the Russian flag will be subject to sanctions. But the ships that deliver here, even if they carry Russian oil, are not carried under the Russian flag, but under other flags, and that is why they do not go legally under these sanctions. We have pointed out that it would be easier if sanctions were based on a group of goods, then the necessary response could be made. The second thing we have pushed at European level is that we should make sanctions together. If they are made by one country and we have also made separate sanctions as Estonia, then this group of goods or economics is simply moving to another country and actually there will be no impact. It's important to do it together. But I would also like to emphasise that companies that provide services should also find a moral compass. For example, when we think about Russia, many of the companies that ceased their activities there did not stop because their actions were subject to sanctions, but because they did not agree to this war and they wanted to show that they would not do it before this war ended. This could also be the basis for Estonian companies. And the last thing I want to say is that certain services must also be provided to these ships, even if they are passing by or under penalty. It is the taking of bilge water and environmental services so that bilge water does not enter our sea. That's what we're interested in. But, yeah, in the big picture, you gotta make sure you don't miss those things. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U125	And now for an additional question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U126	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Here's the question. We receive Ukrainian war refugees every day and very many, thousands of them coming across the Narva bridge from the aggressor state. And there is an interesting fact that many have developed brand new Ukrainian passports. However, it is clear that we do not check the background of these people, how these passports have been obtained, how these people have come here and for what purpose. Since, in principle, the Border Guard Board does not see this process, but receives people, I ask: do you think it is a security threat to the Estonian state or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U127	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U128	Thank you. First of all, you strongly claim to be coming with brand-new Ukrainian passports. You don't have that kind of information. Are you guys gonna go in there and check for brand-new passports? You're just lying, Kalle Grünthal. You're just lying so raw, it's horrible. But I'll answer your question. Yes, it is true that now most war refugees come through the eastern border, not through the southern border. Russia has deported 1.1 million inhabitants from Eastern Ukraine and these people also reach our borders. It's not true that we don't control these people. We control these people very thoroughly. Who these people are, where they come from and where they go from, what their plans are for us, it's very important. And how it is done is, of course, the role of the Police and Border Guard Board. And while I already have the opportunity to answer, I would like to [insert] a few things that Mart Helme pointed out during the procedural question. I would like to point out that Mart Helme blames me for something that happened in 2007. I went to politics in November 2010 and first applied for in the Riigikogu elections in March 2011. Before that, I was a lawyer, I spent 14 years in the private sector, and there's no way I can be blamed for anything that happened in 2007. And there is another thing I would like to emphasise, because Mart Helme very clearly attacked the head of the Police and Border Guard Board. My point is, Elmar Vaher has done an excellent job. In addition to this work on the management of the Police and Border Guard Board, it has actually taken on the current management of the emergency situation regarding the arrival of refugees and the organisation of [the related] arrangements. And it's gone very well. If there were queues at the beginning of the check-in, these queues are gone. This job has been in addition to everything the police have done. So I say that the head of the Estonian police, including the Police and Border Guard Board, deserves recognition for the work done, not the kind of attack we hear here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U129	Thank you. It's a procedure, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U130	Thank you! First of all, I would like to tell our ruler Kaja Kallas not to label me as a liar unless you have an overview of it. Instead, I say that you are lying because yesterday Minister Signe Riisalo visited the Committee on Culture and said that... [[They say something in the hall.]] Sorry, Liina Kersna. And he made it clear that we didn't have an overview of this process. So if anyone's lying here, it's you, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U131	I will stop dealing with this issue, and I hope that we will not be lying in this Chamber, either members of the Riigikogu or members of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U132	Let's move on to question 10. This topic has been presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is managing families with children. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U133	Thank you. Prime Minister! The absolute poverty of families with children has increased year after year, and all the accumulated crises make it even more difficult for them to cope. When the support of the third child rose a few years ago and we started to support families rich in children considerably more, more third children began to be born in Estonia. We all want this to continue. At the moment, it seems that in order to get some support from the state, the family must fall below its subsistence limit. Do you think that raising income support is an effective means of increasing the birth rate? And do you think this country's cheap help for families with children will encourage families to have other and third children? After all, all studies show that when the first child in the family is raised in poverty, the second and third children are often not born.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U134	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U135	Thank you. I don't have these numbers available right now, but I remember, on the contrary, absolute poverty has actually decreased over the years. I'll check it out. I do not want to agree with this statement; absolute poverty, in my opinion, has just decreased in Estonia. Income support is not intended to increase the birth rate. Income support is intended to help people cope even if they have difficulty coping. And it is true that with the additional budget, we have a proposal to increase income support by 33%, because the price increases have been really high and this has aggravated the situation as a whole. Now, child subsidies are really rising, and your party has also played a major role in this. The allowance for the first and second children shall be EUR 60 per month, but from the third child EUR 100 per month. So the large family allowance, if there are three children in the family, is EUR 520 per month. And we have seen that it is these third children who are actually born more. But in my opinion, children come primarily from love, not because children receive support. And I believe that it will continue to be that children are born mainly out of love. That's the way it should be. The state, of course, can do its part to really help those who need the most help, so that no one gets between the gears of life and the chances of coping thanks to higher incomes, [improved]. And, in fact, help at local government level. I'm [I mean] child care and children's opportunities. All of this, of course, must be done. But yes, I believe that children are born primarily when mothers are happy and dare to give birth to children. This, of course, is also about coping, but not only about [only] economic coping, but also about families sticking together and relying on love. This is definitely, I think, important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U136	I'm going to finish the question. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questions. Dear members of the government, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U137	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 13th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mr. Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Riigikogu! The financing crisis in Estonian education is getting worse every day. There's gonna be more fires. We have been talking here about teachers' salaries, which clearly fall behind the growing average wage in Estonia. We have talked about the lack of administrative agreements between our universities and the Estonian state. Estonian vocational education has now been hit very seriously by the underfunding. Our vocational training institutions are no longer able to cope with ever-increasing economic costs. At the same time, teachers' salaries must also be increased in these schools. But the ministry says that school leaders, find money from your internal reserves to raise teachers' wages. But that money just doesn't exist. Economic costs have taken all the free money. In the light of this very serious and deepening crisis, five Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to our Minister for Education and Research. We want to know how this crisis has happened. Why has the state not come to help our vocational training institutions? How do we get out of this crisis? How can our teachers, our good teachers, receive their promised dignity? An inquiry has been submitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U139	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, if I may ask, those who have a request for words or wish to hand over something can do so from this chair. Any other conversation in the implementation of the sitting could be outside this room. It is very difficult for me, even here as the manager, to hear what is being handed over. Let's try to maintain order here in the house and in the hall. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U140	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm handing over a draft amendment to the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act. The draft has been designed to prevent Estonia from becoming a land of influx of cheap labour, as it inhibits technological development and suppresses the wage levels of Estonian workers. The second objective is to stop English-speaking at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer of Estonian universities and support the quality of university education, as well as to prevent universities from becoming a so-called migration pump, or jumpboard, through which third-country nationals will be able to enter the European Union. The third objective is to comply with the Estonian Constitution, according to which the Republic of Estonia was created to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The implementation of the Constitution is threatened by large-scale immigration, the sensible regulation of which is the main objective of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U141	I don't see any more calls. The future fate of one draft and one inquiry will be decided on by the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Okay. A few messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the School Food Support Group in this Chamber. The caller is colleague Ivari Padar. Find Ivar. But, Ivari, I ask you to try to do it quickly, because 30 minutes after the end of the plenary session, an additional sitting will begin. The second message has something to do with it. I would remind you all that 30 minutes after the end of the plenary session we will have an additional sitting here today. And now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U142	77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Now I have one announcement to give you to clarify the agenda. In particular, Minister Tanel Kiik has fallen ill and as a result the presentation of the long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" is postponed to the next working week by the Minister of Health and Labour. So, unfortunately, we cannot discuss this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U143	The second specification of the agenda is due to yesterday's day. In particular, we missed the first reading of draft 553 yesterday at the presentation by the representative of the commission and therefore Mr Ligi is welcome back to the chair. Please! Oh, you didn't make it last night? [[Laughing.]] Then I'll ask Jürgen Ligi for the chair. But you've been here before, so you could say back. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U144	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and decided that the first reading could be completed. By the deadline for amendments, the Commission asks for 17 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U145	Mr. Ligi, I'm sorry for a moment. We'll wait five seconds. Those colleagues who had talks just went out. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U146	And 5.15 a.m. then. Having heard this presentation on behalf of the performers here, it has to be said that there was a lot to do with him in the Commission too. There too he seemed ashamed of the draft itself and his party's views. But I guess he didn't say as much as he did in the remote yesterday. Since this is the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I represent it, I have to put a little financial frame on this draft. It fell apart a lot last night. The rapporteur also repeatedly stressed in the Commission that the state was to assist its citizens. Well, at least in financial terms, the state, however, is a citizens' organisation that collects taxes from them to do something with [this money] that can be done better together than alone. It is not the case that there is such a one-way cash flow from state to citizen and we do not have to look at who and how and how much can. This is, in my opinion, the key problem with this bill, that it has been based on this. The state collects taxes. But he's, of course, collecting a lot less than he's been spending lately. And that is why it is not a third-rate question of how much this bill costs. The authors think it's $75 million, I don't have any more precise calculations, but it's an awful lot of money, it's not some kind of change. And the country is in the minus. The author spent time here entertaining himself by accusing a particular party of increasing the loan burden. Once again, it must be made clear by the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the increase in the burden of credit certainly has completely different reasons than the fault of this party. First of all, the authors' own party, Isamaa, placed the budget in a structural deficit as of 2017, holding a portfolio of the Minister of Finance. It wasn't as bad as the descendant of Martin Helme, who just said that money wouldn't go in the mole hole, he'd go somewhere. He didn't know the numbers. It was pretty bad, though. And the loan burden began to increase after the reserves had been burned. Following the burning of reserves, we were aware of the COVID crisis and also of the price and security crisis, and therefore the credit burden that arose cannot be attributed to any party. In that sense, this presentation was rather vile and quite ugly to listen to. And, of course, the representative of such a party should not talk all the time about the state as an enemy who takes the citizen's pockets and the citizen as an indigenous fertilizer who needs help all the time. It's a very cynical view. It's not like that. So what's the result of the bill itself? First of all, 75 million is too much to spend in the current situation. That was an opinion. But it's also a problem with this money distribution. If we are to subsidise or if we are to support energy consumption, tax support, tax relief will come to those who have higher consumption and, as a general rule, higher incomes. So although authors here or the authors' party tried to claim that this helps the poorest citizens first and foremost, in fact, the budget will be paid more than the budget for those who have more money. And it's not social policy. What else? The Commission had an argument about how much this would help. Value added tax is not something that accumulates as a production input, so these comparisons about Finnish prices, which the author loved to bring, and which are also a long paragraph in the protocol, were irrelevant. However, there is one fundamental economic principle that the draft does not take into account, which the authors did not take into account or want to listen to. This is because if the price increase is due to the deficit and the deficit it is due to, energy prices are most directly due to supply and production difficulties and sanctions, then subsidies must not be subsidised in order to further increase demand. This increases the scissors between demand and supply, which may further increase the price. This is a fundamental mistake with regard to this bill. Eesti Pank has pointed this out; the [European] Central Bank has pointed this out. This is something that the European finance ministers are well aware of. Even if they have decided to reduce the tax in order to please the audience, they have stated at the meetings that there is no price relief. In energy and for all goods, there tends to be a small spike, which later simply disappears. The former trend continues. It will not remain a permanent price reduction. But the people aren't happy either. A 10% reduction in prices in circumstances where prices have increased several times is not really worth candles. This is an alternative view which, although not in favour of this draft, did not receive a majority. But it still relies on economists and economics and says that demand must not be stimulated even in such a small, insignificant amount, but must be invested. We must help the weaker, and by helping everyone at once, we will only increase inflation. That's the problem with this bill. Perhaps basic things have been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U147	Before we can get to the questions, I think Aivar Koka has come up with a procedural question, if it's a procedural one.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Should the rapporteur, who is the Commission's rapporteur, talk about what happened in the Commission? At the moment, it seemed that the Commission would not support this draft. On the contrary, the Commission's decision was to conclude the first reading of this draft. Yes, the members of the Reform Party did not support the draft and the rapporteur is from this party, but the rapporteur should have talked about what happened in the Commission and that the Commission supported the completion of the first reading of this draft rather than criticised it, as the rapporteur said. Am I right to understand that the rapporteur from the Commission must present what happened in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U149	He did it. He did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U150	Good questioner, of course we all understand the rules of procedure in the same way in this Chamber. The representative of the Commission shall present what has been said in the Commission. There have been many examples in our practice. I very much hope that you and all the others that we are in this Chamber, who are doing the Commission's presentation, too, will follow this principle. We could also proceed on the principle that we do not read the minutes, but that we pass on its content and, in a good way, the quintessence of what happened in the committee. Some Commission meetings are certainly very long and it is not very practical to read the whole protocol. So it is indeed the task of the Commission representative to pass on the Commission's debate, its nature and the decisions taken so that decisions can be taken by the large hall. Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U151	Thank you. Can the President help me find the papers referred to by the Commission's rapporteur that Eesti Pank, the central bank and European finance ministers have expressed their views on this draft? Where can these documents be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U152	Now, you might want to ask the performer, so I suggest you press the "Word" button again right now, and then you can ask the waitress. Or have you already asked two questions? Well, then it's hard for me to help you, but I suggest that if you stop now, you'll be able to go to him and ask him personally. But let's get to the questions. Heiki Hepner gets his second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You have been criticizing the waitresses all the time, even if you have not been given the floor, when they have not spoken about what has happened in the Commission. Please tell me why you don't follow your words. After all, you have clearly expressed your personal opinion, not what was actually in the debate in the Commission. And now, by the way, you can answer Priit Sibula's question about where these documents will be found and whether they will be included in the Commission's minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U154	Thank you. I am absolutely correct and will tell you that the Commission did not discuss why I did not say what was said in the Commission. However, I did actually say what was said in the Commission. And you two missed the committee hearing, not me. So I know the course of the Commission's debate, and I reflected it. And I very much agree with the President that there are no protocols to be read here, but that there are fundamental disputes to be reflected. I mentioned that this view was not reflected in the final vote on the fate of this draft, so that the first reading [should be concluded]. But because it was a dispute, I read it out. I'm not going to repeat what Aivar Chef said. Aivar Kokk spoke for a very long time yesterday about things that have nothing to do with the draft, which has nothing to do with the programmed positions of his party, but he kept talking, and he kept lying. I will present those [positions] that I have also presented personally, and not only I, but also my fellow Members in the Commission. I'm not making anything up, including the credit burden, how it came about. All of this has been preserved by the Commission's walls, [there are] protocols over the years. And also in the debate on this draft, I put forward the same views, and I was not the only one. So come over, make sure. The debate in the Commission is important, but it is absolutely not important to have such a presentation on behalf of the Commission that that person said it, that person replied and that people were present. This is not a political debate or argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U155	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U156	Thank you. I was present at the Commission, and I fully agree with the Commission's review of the rapporteur. It's very accurate. I also agree with this assessment that there was much to do with the Commission. And the substantive debate on such a compelling draft, which generates huge budgetary costs, was, in my opinion, incomplete. Yesterday, I asked the initiator what the impact of the draft on inflation, consumer prices, and he replied to the black white protocol, and I have ahead of me that if VAT is set at 20% and it falls to 9%, then the consumer will win 10%. I say an incompetent answer. The practice of other countries does not confirm that the tax reduction will automatically decrease. It's incompetent. I ask how serious the debate on such a comprehensive tax bill we have had in the Commission and in this Chamber. Has this been a serious debate at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U157	Thank you. I didn't happen to start by saying that there was a lot to do with it. Check yesterday's Riigikogu verbatim about the kind of chatter that this same waitress spoke in the hall, how little it reflected the content of the draft, how little she actually represented even the traditional views of her party. And now to blame me that I somehow deviated from what was happening in the Commission, that is unfair, because the same thing in the Commission was the same thing, the same arguments. They are also important to highlight in the big hall. So elementary honesty and elementary respect would have been the prerequisites for me not so keenly reflecting on this debate. A specific issue, whether the consumer wins 10% or something else, yes, of course it is incompetent. By creating excessive demand or increasing excessive demand, we are doing damage to the supply-demand ratio. We [are] apparently taking this price off of one commodity, but as I have already mentioned, and what has always been said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in reality, it tends to be temporary. All right, energy prices aren't so local, you could say it's a more global thing. But globally, also at European level, the same thing is inspired by the fact that let's not do this, let's not subsidise, but invest and help those who really need help. And if you ask where it is written, once again, not the Members of the Commission will be brilliant here knowing that nothing is written anywhere. This also sounded yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although it did not concern this bill, what the central bank thinks about it. I can also add inside information in this Chamber, which I have received from finance ministers' events, also from prime ministers' events. These things don't work the way we cut the tax, and then it's okay. The price increase itself is already many times higher and the reasons for the price increase are only increased. Inflation as a whole is still [based on the ratio between demand and supply. If we leave this temporary effect on the consumer with more money, we will generate demand elsewhere, and overall inflation will not decrease the sum total. So in that sense, I don't know, there's like a hundred things that were said there, and listen and suffer all the time. Unfortunately, we did not have such a claim against the argument, as was not the case yesterday. I ask and I answer, I stack signs, I tell you how the country bullies citizens and all citizens are poor. This could be said by some left party, but by the Fatherland, who has built this country as a community of citizens, of course, with varying success, it is very cynical. The state keeps taking money out of people's pockets instead of helping them. Well, it could be a shame. Really, shame!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U158	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You know, to clarify a few things, maybe everyone in the hall would understand. Did the Commission vote that the Fatherland, the EKRE, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party supported this draft and the Reform Party did not support it? And the majority voted to support the completion of the first reading? Your group's chairman, Mart Võrguship, yesterday, announced in a press release that the Reform Party would support the completion of the first reading. Is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U160	I don't know about a press release like this, it's some kind of work accident in that case. We are not going to vote on this, but in the committee, as I said, this was the result of the vote. And that's what everyone knows for political reasons, so do the coalition, all right? That was great what you were talking about. However, I think the Commission's idea is a substantive debate. And when it comes to the arguments that sounded about the bill, the arguments that are against the bill were overwhelmingly left behind. Overweight! Because, in fact, the draft was virtually not protected, there was no mention of what Finland and some LNG were likely to be about, like yesterday in the saalis. They have nothing to do with this, I promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U161	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U162	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Two things I came here for today. One thing is that there is a very good bill in Isamaa. Very good bill! The Social Democratic Party will certainly support this, it has also been our principle all along. We know exactly what room space costs today. And I sincerely hope that the Reform Party will also support this bill. Today, we will have an additional session of the House's draft 606 and we will reduce, on your proposal, the Minister of Finance will come to the remote and protect it to 5% of the press's VAT. Surely the Social Democrats are also proposing one additional amendment on this draft: not 9%, but 5%. We'll make 5% after the warm VAT. But, Jürgen, don't go away. The second nuance I wanted to say. There are some things that I disagree with Jürgen, but one thing he says about the speeches made by committee waitresses is exactly that. I've been in this hall a lot. If the Commission rapporteur is able to bring the Commission's mind into this Chamber, not to read the minutes, it is super. I remember one time when a former colleague, Kalev Kallo, made his last presentation here and spoke about the Committee on Economic Affairs. He ran out of time, 20 minutes, and then he had gotten to read the first of the minutes of the three hearings. Well, it wasn't constructive. It wasn't constructive! So in any case, Commission waitresses, if you are able to follow Jürgen's style, then honor and praise. But the bill is good, we support it. We will make changes, and we will all adopt this bill together, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U163	Urmas Reitelmann, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U164	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! We often tend to compare ourselves, and usually the reason for this comparison is that Estonia looks better and more fierce. But let me compare now, in a situation where Estonia still looks very naughty. Finnish inflation is unprecedented: 5.8%. Economic people are concerned, even the Finnish press is concerned and the Finnish Government is very concerned. No one in Estonia is worried about anything. And the day before yesterday, when we listened to the political statement of a relentless pioneer-like merciful ruler, we had an idea that everything in Estonia was very good. The good thing about Estonia is that Estonia keeps making records all the time. It is once a record of the world of corona disease, and now there is an inflation record in the European Union. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Is inflation of 19% due to chance, or is it because of the dullness, and where was Eesti Pank at that time? I don't know how you, I've seen in the store several times in the last few weeks, how people take one thing and another, read a price tag and put it back, take a small package. If you look at the food basket, what's left of the food basket? The main items that remain are: there is some cheap sausage, there is milk [and others] minimal, of which one family must be able to survive. I'm not talking about fish, for example. The price of fish is totally crazy. Gravity in Selver is 39.90 kilos. Congratulations, PortoRollo! We all have two Estonian fuel company cards in our wallets. When was the last time, ladies and gentlemen, we looked at the price of this liter that we are completely indefensibly firing into the large tank of our Volvo SUV? Has anyone seen what the final sum is lately? But rural people look and groan because rural people often have become excessive luxury driving. When they go to work, they've lost every thought, and it's cheaper to sit at home. I asked the Prime Minister in this Chamber at the beginning of the year when fuel prices and energy prices rose and rose and welcomed the war in Ukraine, whether the government had any plan that would happen if these prices were to rise further. And then Kaja Kallas said that the government had no plan. And it was most likely one of the few times that Kallas did not lie in front of the Riigikogu. We see that this government is not capable of admitting its mistakes. And the reason we are in such a bad position today is, in fact, in exceptionally stupid economic decisions and also in the interests of the food chain of the Reform Party. And let's face it, the Reform Party here is not much different from the oligarchs in Putin's neighborhood. The methods are the same, the modus operandi is quite similar, the difference is that the oligarchs operate globally and widely, the Estonian business elite is measurable by button trading. Is there anything the government can do? Not enough against war and global phenomena, but at home, things can be fixed before it's hopelessly too late. President Trump recently said that globalism has no future, the future belongs to nation states. And all the signs of the last few years point to Trump being right again. Poland is a very good example of this. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U165	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U166	A good example is Poland, whose government is struggling not with how to please its superiors in Brussels, but with how their people can cope. We actually need to return to a reality-based energy policy and lower excise duties as much as possible. And when the government lacks ideas, you can always call the Polish ambassador. Conservatives have a slightly wider plan of tax cuts than the draft of the Fatherland, and the plans for tax cuts are said to be from the Socialist camp. But let's face it, let's face it, we're too late with them. Too late, too little, we're running behind. The problem is much faster than we are right now. And in fact, we need to review the policy on the price of all foodstuffs and essential goods. Basically, we need to build a new country. The world isn't the same anymore. The destruction of green idiocy threatens Estonia with a drastic decline in living standards, economic collapses and a new exodus. Against this background, the Reform Party's plan to replace the population with cheap Slavs or otherwise vagrants seems to be a completely logical measure. On the other hand, tax policy decisions of the previous government show that good and high-quality decisions can also be made in bad days. And it doesn't take much more than the use of your brain, not the servitude of waiting for the master to whistle. Conservatives, of course, support all the drafts that make people's lives easier, and we support them today as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U167	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. However, on behalf of the Reform Party, please have a little faster fingers so that we can keep track of Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, inflation is a major problem. There is a problem with the economy, there is a problem with people's livelihoods. But inflation has a wide range of levers, and the means of fighting them are not always within our reach. First, central banks' monetary policy, asset purchases, negative interest rates, then failures in global supply chains, lack of material. But, yes, energy prices have been a factor in inflation. However, they also have backgrounds: war, a change in supply-demand situation. Now, as far as the black picture that the previous speaker painted from Estonia is concerned, there are also factors behind it as to why our inflation is higher than in the rest of the euro area. But in the euro area as a whole, it is very high, higher than in the last decade and it has been [a longer time ago]. First of all, our economic growth last year was much faster than in the rest of the euro area. Secondly, our wage costs have increased faster. And thirdly, there have been no pension savings in other countries. The dispersal of pension fund money was an Estonian phenomenon and created demand and inflationary pressure. But that's it. On the draft, of course, I say that, as the Commission rapporteur said, the debate in the Commission was incomplete. There was a lot of unattractive talk. The main thing that interests me is, for example, the impact of this draft on consumer prices and inflation. That is also what I asked yesterday of the bill's advocated representative: what the impact on inflation and consumer prices is. And he replied this way: [in the case of VAT] will be added to the net turnover of 20%, next time 9% will be put, and then this order of magnitude will be slightly above 10%, which every consumer will win. It's not like that! It's not like that! Experience in other countries shows that the tax reduction does not automatically transfer one to one. The price is demand and supply [the result]. And the practice of other countries shows that if there is a tax reduction, the effect will be much less than that and may remain short-term. Today, Question Time said that Belgium reduced the value added tax (VAT) on electricity and gas, but prices do not reflect this by the tax reduction. Or maybe we're not taking the fuel issue here, but we're taking the Latvian example. Latvia reduced the value added tax (VAT) on agricultural products, but Latvia's own economic analysts have said that it did not reach prices in any way. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U169	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U170	So, taking into account the practice of other countries, it can be said that these things are not so simple. According to experience in other countries, the impact of the tax reduction is not effective, it generates a pretty high cost to the budget, but the impact on the consumer remains modest. Now what it means to the state budget. There must be budgetary buffers, budgetary opportunities, in order for such, well, we are also saying tax cuts based on the experience of other countries. However, unlike in 2006 and 2007, these were the years preceding the previous financial crisis, when the Estonian state collected reserves, made budget buffers, the budget was made with surplus, the Estonian budget was down. At the same time, many countries in the euro area, such as Germany, also in Lithuania and even in Greece, had surpluses in those years. So we went into this crisis and we even have a number of crises at once, without preparing, with the budgetary possibilities in mind. The budget was both structurally and nominally negative in the years 2016 to 2018. And that is our problem, that the principle that budget buffers must be created in good times in order to use reserves during crises has been forgotten. We had no crisis in the years 2016-2018, but the budget was negative and the reserves decreased. In summary, this measure or the measures proposed by the draft are ineffective, remain short-term and generate high budgetary costs. And the fact that these measures are ineffective shows the experience of other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U171	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U172	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U173	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U174	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Let us start by saying that what was in the Commission was not what the Commission rapporteur said. And that is why we made this remark. If in the Commission [all] apart from two members of the Commission support the draft, it cannot be that the whole Commission report is such that it is very bad. And the other half. When the representative of the Reform Party comes here to represent the political group, I will read out, just in case, that there should be no misunderstanding that in Postimees, Mart Võrklaev, Chairman of the Reform Group, writes: "The increase in energy prices is indeed a major problem for both people and businesses, but we also need to monitor budgetary opportunities and the behaviour of neighbouring countries. The Group therefore supports the completion of the first reading. " This sentence should have been read by the previous speaker here. And now we're gonna talk a little bit about math. Yes, prices are the result of consumption and production, but when asked what difference is between 20% and 9%, it is true that if you put EUR 10 at [20%], it is EUR 12. If you put 9%, it will be EUR 10.9. There is no need to discuss that in Finland, when the VAT on food was reduced, after three months prices were exactly the same as before. But when we talk about energy prices, most electricity is produced by Enefit, a joint company of Estonian and Estonian residents, and 100% of the state's [part] is owned by Eesti Energia. And when we're talking about gas, private companies are selling gas, but Elering is responsible for all the plumbing and energy security. If we are now talking about price, it is very easy to say that the price of electricity was influenced by war. Friends, the war wasn't a stink when we got the December bills, both gas and electricity. And when we're talking about electricity and rising electricity prices, there's only one reason to blame. Don't tell me all the time about the gas price! Estonia does not produce electricity with gas, except in Eesti Energia, which comes from oil shale gas a little bit of this so-called residue. We do have a gas and power plant that the Prime Minister sometimes talks about here, but it's in Elering's hands that they don't get started on. Only when there is a crisis situation will it be triggered and then we will talk about the price of gas. Find out where and how electricity comes from! There is only one reason for the price of electricity to increase: Elering built a cable between Latvia and Estonia. Instead, we could have gotten a cheap price from Finland and we would not be able to sell it on. Then we would have had three times cheaper electricity, the same as in Finland. Why is no one saying that 360 million euros last year was taken from the pockets of Estonian electricity consumers as overload charges? Where is the integrity of the Reform Party? 170 million were distributed back in grants. 360 million, half for Estonia, Elering, half for the Finnish transmission system operator. In March, it was 5 million. Then they say we don't take care of our people. It's embarrassing to listen! What are the 101 people for? Whose voices are you here with? You are still like the voices chosen by the people of Estonia in this hall. When the price has risen, the price of gas has risen six, seven, eight times, it is easy to calculate how much VAT has increased to the country. And then to talk all the time, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday, when I asked what figure you're talking about, the budget was made on the bottom of the autumn forecast. No, we're talking about the spring forecast now. These are two completely different times. VAT receipts are much better. Why does no one come to this table to talk about how the Estonian Government has distributed hundreds of millions of euros of money, which is nowhere on the budget line in the last four months. I don't see it anywhere in the extra budget. Ukraine has received more than 200 million support, military assistance. Do you know what the answer is? It's all written off. And then it is said that we have the Defence Forces budget in connection with the war, which [must] be supported. For 200 million, we gave up ammunition and armaments, and I see 15 million in the budget, 7 million of which are to improve the living conditions of NATO soldiers. This 75 million has been put here with value added tax to show how much this cash flow theoretically decreases. But in the budget, in fact, even if VAT is set at 9% from 20%, the budget will have more money than was planned for this year's budget. How many skins do we take from our people? Thank God the second pension pillar was volunteered. People survived last winter. I, a foolish person, am in the second pillar of retirement today too. In that four months, I've lost 8% of it. Would have taken it out in September, as the wise took it, and invested in the right place... At the same time, the price of 30% per square metre has increased in most apartments in Tallinn. To talk about the fact that five years ago the loan was taken or spent more... Thank God! At that time, roads were built that would cost twice as much today. The previous or previous government made decisions two years ago to cut excise duty and make wage subsidies. Thanks to this, last year's European economic growth was the highest in Estonia: 8.6%. Latvia and Lithuania had it at 4% and Finland at 3%. I mean, the last government dared make quick decisions in two weeks. We will have an additional budget brought here, which we will be discussing in an urgent manner this evening: EUR 800 million, with virtually no more than two lines of support for the Estonian people. One sensible and the other shameful EUR 50. Maybe 50 euros buys their own votes, but I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U175	On behalf of the central fraction, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Only a representative of his group can really speak here at first reading. I waited a long time to see if we had such a representative. No, it's not. Well, then, I am representing, and on behalf of the group, I support the draft. This draft is noble, the objectives are declared very beautiful and we support it. Now a word on your own behalf. The situation is really very difficult, and everyone here talking about how people stand at the store and read coins is telling the truth. I've seen one of those things myself, it's getting systematic. Do we expect any improvement in the situation in the coming period? Yesterday, it can be said that, quite by accident, I listened to a lecture where the person who quoted only World Bank data, that means that propaganda cannot under any circumstances be spoken of, reported that European banks lost a total of EUR 250 billion in January and February. The total liquid currency in Europe, in the European banking system, is about 4 trillion. That means one of the 16th parts left in two months. In fact, they were a good month, mostly without war. Mostly they passed without these new sanctions. This means that no improvement is expected from anywhere. Nowhere. Much is said about ending the economy of a neighbouring country, refusing to buy it and the second and the third and fourth. I see only one example. It is a Hungarian gentleman named Orbán who said that he is not doing what European politicians are making up, but what is needed for the people of his country. And in order for the economy to remain, in order to keep jobs, in order for people to have what to eat and where to live, all these steps will not be corrected in any way by this behaviour. And when it comes to oil, gas and coal, everyone thinks that if you refuse to buy from that person, the other one will have to offer you a run. It's only gonna be the one who gives you up to two and a half or three times as much as it is with LNG. Keep your economy competitive after that! So no improvement is expected. All the economic nonsense that's been going on in the last few years, I've been quiet for a long time, excuse me if I'm overreacting a little, but it's really painful to look at it, is a sign that there's not going to be any improvement in the near future. And why did I even come here? Because I think it makes sense for us now to look at the experience of the richest country. The richest country in the world, you know, is the United States. The population there is, if my memory isn't fooled, like 340 million. Of these, 39 million live, receiving food with coupons. In the richest country in the world, this system exists and it works. And if they are not afraid of it, if you want to help those who are currently struggling, then it is important to seriously think that the Estonian state, in the form of its authorities, will definitely agree with the local producer only with the local producer and guarantee this very individual pensioner that he will get milk, eggs, bread, potatoes, some meat. And so he can get it at a normal price so he can manage his pension. I think we'll come up with that sooner or later, but better sooner. Better now than too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U177	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 553. You don't see any other wishes. So we've finished our first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U178	We will proceed with our second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of Bill 382 of the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. The commission has proposed a final vote. But, of course, before the final vote, it is possible for the political groups to take the floor at third reading. For the Socialists, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U179	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats support this law, but with a heavy heart, because the ambition taken by this law is too small. Dear friends, this is too small: by 2030, only 42% of renewable energy carriers will be transitioned. We have tabled an amendment: 100%. I-I mean, maybe this bar was set too high, but in any case 42% is especially in today's situation, where we know what happened to gas, where we know what fossil energy costs too little. So ambition should be a bit bigger. Maybe a little of that background. Aivar here earlier told us how much gas [to be supplied] electricity we have right now. I took the electricity map open, I'll check it out. 3% of the current electricity burning in this ceiling is supplied by gas. Thank God! Thank God! And let's say it's a little bit more interesting. Today, with biomass, we have 23% of the electricity in the ceiling, 30% with coal, 17% with wind, and 28% with the sun. This shows that we have the opportunity to move this way: if we could break down the administration so that we could build wind farms properly, this ambition would be 100% entirely [to be achieved]. And one more thing. The heating season is coming in autumn. We know what a gas failure has done to the price of heating. But there is another very large variable factor, that is the price of biomass. I can't let it go again. One reason why the price of biomass is so high when heating with biomass in Tallinn and other major cities is that we burn it in Narva furnaces, or biomass, inefficiently. Electricity produced in Narva furnaces is sold at a high price, and the public will not win anything, but will lose significantly at home costs by paying for heating. To sum it up. This draft is [step] in the very right direction, we support it. But I hope that our authority, politicians and entrepreneurs will not take it as 42% dogman, so oh, we have achieved ambition. No, it's not. We have to do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U180	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U181	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly of the same opinion that this bill is a step in the right direction. But this step is very small. And ambition is even smaller. We also talked about energy prices in the previous draft [for discussion]. We know very well in this Chamber that, in fact, the reduction in electricity prices is one factor in the creation of wind farms, in particular the establishment of offshore wind parks. I agree with the previous speaker that we have a few individuals who want to emphasise that there are individual officials who are doing everything to ensure that nothing happens, because then they will be much easier. But luckily, they're lonely. I dare say with a loud voice that there are many players in the private sector who would like to invest in renewable energy, whether wind farms, whether solar parks or biogas. But there's a lot more distractions. We're always discussing, talking, but we don't make final decisions. [Such] is also an example of the construction of the LNG terminal or of the reception quay at present. A decision has not been made within two months. The decision is only that we buy 1 sharp gas at 1.7 times the [today] market price for Estonian consumers. Jaanus Marrandi writes, I read today that farmers are ready to produce 1 spiked biogas. This is exactly the amount we need from our households. And 4 sharps goes into business. What has prevented wind farms from being established for the last ten years? In fact, a single official who at one point received a proper position became Vice Chancellor and vetoed it. And I have to admit, weak ministers didn't chew it out. So what happens now? The situation has gotten worse in recent years. Two state companies argue with each other whether the Tootsi wind farm is either a Tootsi wind farm or a Tootsi wind farm. I was chairman of the Economic Commission at the time of the last extension of the building of up to 50 kilovolatile solar parks with solar panels. With regard to wind parks, we agreed at the same committee there, and even the law states that it is theoretically possible to obtain [electricity] with two wind farms: Aidu and Tootsi. Tootsi has been written in here. Elering says you can't. Will Estonia's final consumer win anything out of it? Can't win, because 500 megawatts is still what's being compensated for. If you produce wind energy, for example, 2000, no more money will be distributed. The founders of wind farms are currently waiting for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to organise procurements for the sale or purchase of at least 1 sharp amount of renewable energy. There are some small things being done, however, like doing to a small company. We obviously need big wind farms. The Livonian wind farm, if there are no obstacles now, will be ready by 2027 or 2028. It has a capacity of 1000 megawatts, or half of Estonia's electricity consumption. And if you believe the founders of the German wind farms today, the wind generators at 270 meters high at 98% of the time... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U182	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U183	...in 98% of the time the wind blows at such heights. The ground wind parks that should be built today are six, but the developments have stood for the last ten years. Thank God it was agreed during the last coalition that these radars would be purchased, and today's government has supported it. The development of wind parks is starting. However, it should be agreed that the Ministry should not be the deputy chancellors and chancellors of the same sector on the boards of state enterprises. It interferes with entrepreneurship. We have been moved to different ministries of Elering and Eesti Energia to avoid conflicts, but on the contrary, the conflict has arisen. I understand that ministers who are still in different political parties do not want to fight against each other on this issue, and that is how freedom is given. Free hands have caused us to see what really happened to LNG for the last month and a half. Someone says Finland is being built. Ice-class ships will be bought. I wonder if the Finnish taxpayer really will. The Estonian taxpayer closes his eyes and maybe wants to make such a stupid decision, but hardly. There are no ice-class LNG ships now. In Paldiski, this port, the reception terminal must be completed and gas secured for Estonia. I remember very well this debate in 2014 when it was said that let Finland's larger consumer make his LNG terminal. And let Lithuania do it, and Lithuania will give it to us. The capacity of the Lithuanian terminal is almost 2.5 times smaller than that of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland. There's no way to put a bigger world into a smaller world. No way! And now it is very clear: on 25 February Lithuania announced that there would be no gas coming towards Latvia. Today I am listening, the Prime Minister says that we are not buying Russian gas, we are buying it from Latvia. Is that why 1.7 times the price is put in the supplementary budget to pay over the purchase of gas from Poland or Lithuania? Oh, my God, where have we come from? It's that indecisiveness. Two months have not been decided. As the additional budget was discussed for two months, it was brought to this hall on Monday, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs had to make decisions as a matter of urgency yesterday, although it saw these papers for the first time. There is a debate here today, we have to propose amendments on an accelerated basis. I know the Chairman of the Economic Commission is a serious player. I'm asking you to put your fist on the table there once and tell the Ministry of Economic Affairs that we're gonna stop this braking, give private companies the chance to build wind farms and to build solar parks. And, of course, where there are consumers, not useful farmland. And the LNG solution could be in place tomorrow, not again for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U184	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I probably do not need any extra time to say that what colleagues said here earlier is quite important. This is a good bill and there is not much to add here. You're complaining that the steps are short. But in short steps, this world will heal. The idea that this draft will complete the whole energy system, set all the right objectives and open all the necessary connections, probably belongs to science fiction. That's not gonna happen, of course, and I think you'll understand. So my suggestion is to support this bill. Even if this is a small step, it is still a step in the right direction, as you said. And all together, and with your good support, I'm sure we'll take these small and longer steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U186	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. We are going to the proposal of the lead committee, which is a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Act on the organisation of the energy economy initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws by number 382. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U187	The result by 55 and adopted 18 found the draft's support and has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U188	As has already been mentioned, our third item on the agenda will be postponed to next week. We will proceed with the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (replication of the Environmental Register Act) 441. Mr. Yoko Alender, Chair of the Environment Committee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U189	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the 441 procedure in the lead committee between first and second reading. To remind you that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic at the end of September last year. The first reading was closed on 8 December and two amendments to the draft were tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. For its part, the Committee on the Environment finalised three amendments on the basis of these two proposals. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with by the Commission once, on 19 April. These amendments, as well as those tabled by the Ministry of the Environment, were then presented. The views were then formed and decisions were taken on the future procedure of the draft. Now briefly from this meeting of the Committee on the Environment. I will also try to take into account previous comments that the mood should be passed on at the committee meeting. The mood was busy and constructive, I dare say. And these amendments concerned, in particular, the points on forest data in this draft. During the discussion of the amendments, Kalvi Tõvi, who is also a member of the Commission, gave an overview of these proposals. Let me introduce you to them briefly. In the first amendment, the Social Democratic Party wishes [the law] to state that the data entered in the forest register which are not subject to restrictions on access under the Public Information Act are public. There was a small discussion with officials on this issue. Annemari Russian, Marku Lamp and Eda Pärtel were present from the Ministry, Head of the Legal Department. In fact, the main content of this issue has been that all other data in the forest register are public, but it is precisely those data which, under the Public Information Act, have access restrictions that remain for internal use. In essence, the Commission decided to take account of this amendment by the Socialists and, for its part, formalised a further clarification of the proposal by formulating it in such a way that the same data, which is subject to a restriction on access under the Public Information Act, would include certain data on forests belonging to a natural person if they were not made public by the forest owner on his own request in the forest register. Here in the Commission we also took into account the opinion of both the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice, and I think we finally got a very adequate wording. The second issue, which was addressed by the second amendment by the Social Democratic Party, concerned the availability of R &amp; D institutions to the coordinates of the permanent dimensions of the statistical forest inventory, which are otherwise for internal use, if the environmental agency is convinced that they are used for research purposes. And these permits will be awarded to R &amp; D institutions by contract. This socialist change was also taken into account in substance and, in cooperation with the Ministry, we formulated a precise amendment. There was a little discussion. Andres Metsoja asked very directly about this draft law, although it is not one of the one-on-one notifications of forests on Natura 2000 sites where cuttings have been suspended in connection with a case between the State and the European Commission. Andres Metsoja asked if the same rules apply to these data. He stated that the content of the forest notifications was not public in its entirety. Marku Lamp confirmed that this is exactly the case, but there is information on stopping cuttings. And I guess that was pretty much the whole discussion we had. I am going to say so much that, in fact, to a large extent, I simply recall this is a law on IT developments and reforming environmental registers. Indeed, the amendments concerned a specific part, but this previous procedure has, of course, already been discussed at first reading in the presence of the Minister. I'd be happy to answer the questions. However, I must also say that decisions were made to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 4 May (consensually) and to propose that the second reading be closed (including a consensual decision) and, if the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 11 May. That too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U190	There are no questions, it's clear. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U191	Thank you, good vice chairman! Good Riigikogu! Thank you to the Committee on the Environment for such a wonderful constructive work. I must certainly say thank you to Mr Evgeni, who formulated these amendments from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and, in the case of this draft, felt that there were such concerns. In this way, the Commission took into account two of our amendments in substance, purely legal terms. One amendment, or the other, that researchers have the right to access, we agree with one hundred percent. It's very, very fine. However, in the case of this first amendment, we still have a little doubt. In our opinion, this substantive consideration is still a very, very big perspective or whatever to say. We believe that this amendment of ours has been taken into account, but little. So, what's the problem? As Yoko presented very well, according to the Commission and many experts, forest data are also part of the sensitive personal data resulting from the Data Protection Act. But we think there are a lot of records that know exactly how many people have cars, how many they have real estate, and so on. It's like they're not sensitive personal data, but now they're forest data. We don't think it's pretty good yet. That is why we held a debate in the Commission on this subject in a few words, and we do not agree very well with the substance of this amendment. We think that really interested people who would like to see [these data] because they are concerned about some cuttings on their side or elsewhere in the vicinity will still have less access to the data. Sga no better half an egg than an empty shell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U192	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U193	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Half an egg or a whole egg? In fact, I could remind you that this is a very winding bill. Actually, he's number 441, but he was born with number 292. And it started on 23 November 2020, but on 22 September 2021, the Environment Minister, Tõnis Mölder, suddenly said that I would take it back, no more bullshit. There were a couple of readings. My penguin at Henn Põlluaas asked for it was one early morning in June, 16 June 2021, the second reading at 6.26 in the morning, and the Environment Minister Mölder was again in the booth, and Henn Põljaas asked for what God's miracle that the second reading of the Environment Minister was again present. Tõnis Mölder said he'd come to the third reading. Of course, it doesn't fit in with the procedures. So, actually, the struggle and all that was clearly felt. Well, I was involved, too. I was here at first reading on behalf of the Commission and had to be at second reading. But at night suddenly it turned out that I wasn't reliable, and then Minister Mölder was brought into this booth. So this, ladies and gentlemen, can be remembered for what has happened here. But it's actually very simple. Once, environmental data was in the basement, in the punch cards, in the folders, anywhere. All kinds of woods and fish and all that. When the environmental register was adopted in its time, Minister Heiki Kranich was. So it's really like a technical [step: collected] from base stations, folders and perfocards, this data is one of the big portals to be modern and easy to find out what's out there. Environmental people appreciated this initiative, could have been done a long time ago. But yes, it was a relatively technical [task] how to aggregate it all. So many things have not been laid off there at the moment. For example, environmental impact assessments, general plans in local governments, detailed plans, whatever. Somehow they haven't gotten into it. But all these eagle nests, or some pawny growth sites, or nitrate sensitive areas, and so on and so on, they're nicely in here. So briefly, it is about making an environmental portal from the environmental register, and I will repeat again, by transferring the data of these perfocards and stations to modern media to make it easier and easier to operate. But all this has gone over the rocks and stumps. What's this about? I'll remind you what was here. Before Tõnis Mölder suddenly took it back, the bill number was 292. There were 11 amendments, of which four were proposed for the forest, amounting to 15.3 pages. Four proposals and 15.3 pages! There were two proposals for [modification] of the Water Act. Half the page was explained. Everyone had one amendment to the Atmosphere Air Protection Act, the Waste Act and the Industrial Emissions Act. They were marginal in terms of volume. So, in fact, this bill already deals with the same thing as the second one, but the number is different. It has been for these things of the SMI, or forest inventory, how to deal with them. Here some say that private forest owners want to hide their property, so when you see... Mr Seeder asked why in the case of arable land...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U194	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U195	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U196	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U197	...this kind of action is in progress, but the forest is secreted. There could be a cropland. And let me remind you of another keyword: raccoons. These are not the raccoon dogs that were once brought to us, but are in a transferred sense those who sift here and call the ladies and guys who have a bit of forest. They want to catch it and make a quick offer and shave a piece of wood. So that was the background that actually took this draft to a repetition of a sensible draft and has dragged this debate for quite a long time. He's got a new number, and now we're finally here for second reading. And as you can see, this time there is no second reading, oh miracle, the Minister of the Environment. And it's probably not going to be a third reading either. So what do you say? I just wanted to remind my fellow Members that this is an important modernisation of all these environmental data. However, what has been fought in the Committee on the Environment for six sessions was in the Committee on the Environment when the draft number was still 292 on forest topics, these statistical forest data actually form a very marginal part of the whole draft. But as you can see, the old devil can hide in very small details, and this bill is a great example of how it is possible to take one actually quite reasonable thing to slap. And we haven't been able to kill the Heiki Kranich Environmental Register Act to this day. Although Heiki agreed, last time we could have killed him to bring him to modernity, but now we're on our way to the second round. So nice bill! It's a good thing we've come this far, but these things of forest secrecy are an extremely marginal part of this bill. Extremely marginal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U198	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this [the subject] has been dealt with very long, indeed, with two drafts, just as Mr Peter has just opened to us. You could say it's like a pretty long beard on it. In itself, it is interesting in this sense that it should solve a large number of IT-technical problems and provide [all] a legal basis like this. When the last summer somehow stopped this thing, they didn't get it, it looked like there was actually time. But now we've come so far that maybe at some point these necessary changes can be written into the law, written in. But as far as the forest side is concerned, I am, of course, pleased that we are getting some legal clarity about statistical forest inventory. It is very regrettable that it has been attempted to throw into the air doubts that these data are being falsified, that they are not reliable. It's just embarrassing to listen to. And sometimes people who write "doctor" as an academic degree [name] speak that way. Indeed, it is incomprehensible why this has been done and why such mistrust has been planted among our people. This is a method that has been used for a very long time. We have been talking here about why it has been necessary to protect the pieces from being considered public. In this case, everyone could also think about what it would do if all the surveys were absolutely public. Obviously, the results would be unreliable. In this sense, it is certainly a good thing that we are in the process of reaching a solution that may eventually increase this credibility. At the same time, I do not think that [after] the adoption of this law [certain] people will change their faith and that they will want to deceive them again. But of course, at least some kind of legal clarity it also gives and perhaps gives our officials a better opportunity to make reasoned decisions. And if you refer again to the previous speaker, the forest section is really marginal in the draft, but on the other hand, the forest is mostly spoken of in the context of this bill. Indeed, the fact that private forest owners' data, especially those belonging to natural persons, are not public, is primarily due to the reduction of the pressure on those who would like to buy the forest, to buy the cutting right. And actually, there is this strange paradox that, on the one hand, those people who want to be cut less say that everything should be public, this pressure on logging should be greater. So there is really complete dissonance in this principle. But I really hope that now it has somehow found a solution, and I comfort the Socialists that it is not half an egg, but it could even be said that it is an egg and a half. It's like nothing's wrong with this solution. Enjoy! I think we've been able to take one step forward here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U200	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been taken into account in substance by the lead committee. The second amendment, the lead committee, has taken full account of it. The third amendment, from the lead committee, has been taken fully into account. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been taken into account in substance by the commission. The fifth amendment is from the lead committee and is fully taken into account. The sixth proposal has also been taken fully into account by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. There are no other requests, so we have finished second reading and have exhausted the fourth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U201	The fifth item is the second reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (approximation of special services). Here we are waiting for a chair on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs to speak to Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and other laws to harmonise the special services, or draft 508, was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 January 2022. The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 9 February this year, the deadline for submitting amendments, by 23 February the special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu tabled one amendment, by the Anti Poolamets three amendments and by the Committee on Legal Affairs four amendments. A total of eight amendments have been tabled. The Committee on Legal Affairs requested stakeholders' opinions on the draft 508 by 21 February. The Commission prepared the draft for a second reading at the following meetings: 22 March, 12 April and 21 April and 2 May this year. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 22 March, stakeholders presented their proposals in preparation for the second reading of the draft. Now, when we talk about the meeting on 22 March and the issues raised by stakeholders, I would like to say a few words about them. The Salvation League raised [the topic] that voluntary rescuers, including voluntary marine rescuers, could receive additional leave and compensation for the consequences of natural disasters, fires, accidents or disaster prevention in the event of tasks of the same nature as auxiliary police officers. The same subject was discussed at the next session, i.e. on 12 April. There Marko Põld, adviser to the Rescue and Safety Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, gave us explanations. The Ministry of the Interior explained why it did not support this proposal. And the explanation was that they were different target groups. Volunteer rescuers perform normal tasks, participate in rescue work. Assistant police officers participate in extraordinary events where they do not normally participate. Thus, the unpaid additional leave provided for in the draft is reserved only for auxiliary police officers in exceptional circumstances where routine duties are not carried out. The representatives of the ROTAL and the Police Employees Trade Union also proposed. They raised the following questions: ROTAL pointed out that the Police and Border Guard Act was being supplemented in such a way that the grounds for refusing to take up the person were not disclosed. This would not be in line with the General Data Protection Regulation, as the regulation provides for the right of access to personal data by the data subject. We discussed this point in the Committee on Legal Affairs at several meetings and finally in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, Amendment 5. I'll introduce it later. The draft removes the differences in compensation for the redundancy of a police officer. This was also highlighted by the ROTAL and the Police Service Association. But the Ministry of the Interior explained why they would be lost. The Ministry of the Interior did not support the proposal submitted as the increased redundancy payments were abolished with the entry into force of the new Civil Service Act for all other officials and employees. The draft provides for the abolition of the last major redundancy payments currently only for police officers, prison officers and military personnel. Now the conditions and procedure for granting extra leave. The Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board or, more specifically, his authorised person, it is as if they were competent to do so, and the ROTAL wanted [these things] to be able to agree on a collective agreement or another agreement between the Agency and staff. The Ministry of the Interior did not support the proposal submitted. It was explained that the regulation on additional leave for police, rescue and prison officers applies from the time when the new ATS entered into force and all other public services lost their entitlement to additional leave. This additional leave for special servants has already been implemented for nine years. This has so far been done in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Head of Administration. They also brought out the Alert Center, where there is no union. Now, the Rotal proposal was to supplement the bill in such a way that, in the event of the official being released from illegal service, he would have the right to be reinstated. The reason was that illegal dismissal would end the entire career for the official. The Ministry of the Interior expressed the opinion that in such a case, further smooth cooperation may be permanently damaged, but the person still has the right to continue to enter the system. Now that we talk about the session of 12 April, we discussed the amendment of the special committee of the security authorities of the Riigikogu, which was presented by Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the special committee, and also the amendments of the Anti Polish forest. The Ministry of the Interior also presented its proposals for amending and clarifying the draft. And now we go to the amendments. Amendment 1 came from the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. The issue was the appointment of senior public office managers. In short, it was the deputies of the Director-General, especially the Police and Border Guard Board and the Special Branch. It was suggested that their open-ended contracts should not be converted into fixed-term contracts. But at the hearing, they were given the guarantees that apply to them. The amendment introduces a transitional period of five years for the Deputy Director General in the Service, which was introduced by the Ministry of the Interior. This means that, after the change, the Deputy Director-General in office can continue in service for a period of at least five years. And the appointment of the Deputy Director-General shall not be limited to the repetition of the term of office. This means that the Deputy Director-General may continue after the five-year period of service if he proves to be elected. And, to be more precise, the Commission also mentioned that all deputies would end their term of office on 30 June 2027 and from that time on the same [date]. The amendment presented by the Anti Half-Authority was even more restrictive. He proposed that the Deputy Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Deputy Director-General of the Defence Police Department can only be appointed for a period of five years. The third amendment was tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Its content is that, as a result of the changes, the volunteer marine rescuer will in future reimburse transport, communication, training and other expenses instead of the Government of the Republic, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. The purpose of the amendment is to establish the same principles of compensation for voluntary expenses as for voluntary rescuers involved in the Rescue Board, whose cost reimbursement procedures are established by the Director-General of the Rescue Board. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by Anti Polandmets and its content is as follows: The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board appoints the office for a term of five years on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the Government of the Republic, also listening to the opinion of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs. It also considers that not only the deputies but also the Directors-General should be able to hold only one election period. Amendment 5. The amendments proposed in the fifth amendment are interlinked. The amendment limits the right of access of the data subject to personal data collected during background checks in the laws governing special services, in accordance with the objectives set out in the General Data Protection Regulation. This right of data subject may be restricted, inter alia, for the purposes of national security, defence, public order, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences, the enforcement of penalties, the protection of the data subject or the protection of the rights and freedoms of other persons. These changes are made throughout the various laws on background checks: that is, the Police and Border Guard Act, the Emergency Police Act, the Rescue Act and the Rescue Services Act. One important element is that the purpose of background checks carried out in different fields is to identify the person's compliance with the requirements for the occupation or workplace and to assess the suitability of the person. The reliability of a person may also be verified for other purposes. For example, in order to ensure security in prison, it is important to ensure that persons providing services in prison are not from a criminal background and are suitable for providing services in prison. It may be necessary to reiterate that the law may therefore provide a basis for refusing to issue data obtained through background checks, both for reasons of national security and public order, as well as for purposes such as the protection of the person himself or for other purposes specified in the General Data Protection Regulation. And this amendment, as has been said, relates to the issue raised by the ROTAL and the Police Workers' Trade Union. Amendment 6 It has been presented by the Anti Half Office. And he explains his change as follows. The rotation of senior civil servants enables the administration to better manage the changes and to be a modern organisation. Rotation helps [to] prevent corruption. The State Chancellery has stressed that the number of officials to be appointed for a given period of time should be extended and the heads of entities directly subordinate to senior management should also be added to the list and appointed for a post with a term of office of five years. It is important that both senior managers and their deputies are appointed for a limited period of time. In order to fill the post of Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and Deputy Director General of the Defence Police Department, the competition should be carried out as early as 2022. The rejection of the 2027 option is unwarranted. The Commander of the Defence Forces shall be appointed for a term of five years and shall be renewable for a period of two years. So that's the Anti-Poland Forest proposal. The Committee on Legal Affairs tabled the seventh amendment. There is actually just one word left out: conditions. According to the wording of the Act on Assistant Police Officers in the Act, the crisis role establishes the professional training requirements, conditions and procedures of the Assistant Police Officer by order of the Minister responsible for the field. In so far as it is not necessary to establish the conditions for professional training separately, in the interests of legal clarity, the words in the wording of the mandate rule shall be deleted. The word "conditions" is excluded. Now the eighth amendment. It amends the inaccuracies found in the draft. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. If you read this list of amendments, you can also see which changes were taken into account. All those presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs were, of course, agreed with the consensus. The three amendments tabled by the Anti Semi-Authority were not and were not taken into account in the proposal of the Special Committee on Security Oversight. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee were such. On 21 April, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 4 May of this year and the second reading closed. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 11 May and then to hold a final vote. All procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U203	There's a question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U204	Good manager! Good waitress! The aim of the draft is to harmonise social guarantees for special servants, equal treatment and red tape. But I read that the Rotal proposals were largely not supported. And my question is how much it makes it better, how many of these different silo towers are stupid words! just people who are there, special servants [will win]. Has all of this really become more or less equal for their social guarantees and treatment, or are there some places where the objective has not been achieved for some reason? [If so], what are these places?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U205	Thank you for your question. If we look at the services offered by the unemployment fund, even today, there are services provided by the unemployment fund, for which there are redundancy payments and so on. Many places remain since the system was not fully operational.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U206	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very clearly impressed with this bill during the Soviet era. A national nomenclature will be created, orbiting in one place to another, and as long as possible there will be one place. This is justified by the fact that a person has gained experience and cannot be wasted. Let him work for the next five years and then, after he's worked for the next five years, he'll work for the rest of his life. Finns have a beautiful expression for stewstone spies, or tomb contract. Does it not seem to you that it actually eliminates this healthy social competition and the motivation of those working at lower levels to strive for higher positions of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U208	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You yourself have been the Minister of the Interior, so I would very much have expected that, at that time, these changes should have been made so that the deputies could not work indefinitely, for the rest of their lives. But I agree with you that, of course, we have now narrowed down the possibility of these timeless contracts becoming time-bound. It's perfectly legitimate, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U209	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U210	Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to talk about rotation. These secret police officers and rescuers and prison officers, and both on and on, how big is this rotation actually in these silo towers right now? I understand the oak alley is supposed to grow long, or it's not going to be an oak alley.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U211	Thank you. The question is very interesting, but I am not the Minister of the Interior, and I really do not know everything about the way this rotation in the Ministry is taking place, who goes from prison to minister, who goes from police to police, and so on. I can't answer that question. Perhaps your party partner, Mart Helme, will answer that, he is certainly well qualified on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U212	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. The second amendment, Mr Halfamets, has been rejected by the commission. The third amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, the Anti Semi-Authority, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. The fifth amendment, from the lead committee, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 6, from the lead committee, fully taken into account... I'm sorry! That's the Anti-Poland proposal, I read it wrong, my mistake. I've been looking at the seventh one with my eyes. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Anti Half Office, has been rejected by the commission. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The eighth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been taken fully into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 508. I don't see any other wishes, so we're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U213	Let us move on to our sixth item on the agenda. This is a draft Act 583 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering and the Detection, Freezing and Confiscation of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, initiated by the Government of the Republic. It's a first reading. Please, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft by which the Government of the Republic proposes to the Riigikogu to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering and the detection, seizure and confiscation of proceeds of crime and on the financing of terrorism. It is a Council of Europe Convention on the confiscation of proceeds from crime, which clearly requires rapid cross-border exchange of information in very many cases, as well as effective cooperation with a clear division of labour. Articles of the Convention provide for an international system of cooperation to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and other serious criminal offences. This is the second Council of Europe Convention on the confiscation of proceeds of crime on the same subject. Estonia has already ratified the previous Convention, adopted in 1999, with similar content. Much of the provisions in the Convention currently being ratified are identical to those in the 1990 Convention or they are very similar. What's changed? The new Convention drawn up by the Council of Europe contains two amendments. The first relates to FIUs, and the provisions concerning FIUs are also included in the Convention. The second relates to the inclusion in the Convention of provisions on the prevention of terrorist financing. Estonian law already denies the requirements of the Convention. The Convention has also been signed by the European Union, which has in this context adopted regulations and directives to bring its right into conformity with the Convention. Estonia has transposed this right. So, as has been said, Estonian law already meets the requirements currently laid down. Ratification of the convention will facilitate the exchange of information between Estonian research institutions, certainly our Money Laundering Data Bureau and the prosecutor's office, working with their partner institutions in Europe. Reliance on the Convention, in turn, will allow for more rapid and sometimes easier access to information, research assistance, in cooperation with some States Parties, which in turn will help to improve the effectiveness of the cooperation. I therefore ask you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U215	Thank you. Looks like there's some questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U216	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Keit! I'm not asking about this law at all, but I am asking about money laundering. There's no way we're gonna fight money laundering, but I think some banks have really screwed up. I say this for the sake of a verbatim report in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, or I ask you if it's like normal activity. I've heard from a lot of people, and it's happened to me, too, that I carried some money from one of my bank accounts to Swedbank, and Swedbank immediately asked where the money came from, where you got it. And if you don't answer by certain dates, we'll close your accounts. Crazy things like that. I wore my salary to the Riigikogu, from SEB to Swed, and that's the question. Well, that's not normal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U217	Thank you. It seems to me that this was a rhetorical question right now. Indeed, this does not relate to the ratification of this Convention. However, there has been quite a lot of criticism in recent times, and it is certainly worth looking into it in the case of any criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U218	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Can you open up why we're doing this today? If so many years have passed since the beginning of this process, why are we doing this here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U220	Thank you. It is true that Estonia's signing of the Convention in 2013 has been a long time gone by. This is an area that is dealt with by several ministries [between]: it is the [theme] of the Ministry of Justice and now, quite recently, the Money Laundering Data Bureau moved directly to the Ministry of Finance's administration, including the Ministry of Finance's [theme]. The year 2018 was the year when different areas of government or, let's say, the relevant ministries agreed among themselves that the Ministry of Finance would prepare for ratification. And I think it was a reasonable decision in itself. Indeed, especially now that the Money Laundering Data Bureau is acting as an independent government agency. In general, there are a number of nuances involved in the preparation of such processes, which are debated and discussed by the authorities. I guess it's all been more time-consuming than originally predicted. I know that, in cooperation with a lot of agencies, the explanatory statement has been written and the details have been checked. It is precisely as to whether Estonian law really already corresponds to everything contained in the Convention or whether there is a need to change something else. And the answer is yes, yes. This work has been very time-consuming, but it has now been completed and it is good that it has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U221	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U222	Thank you. The rhetorical question was indeed, but you yourself also said that there have been signals about it. If there's any signals, we need to look into it, deal with it. I'm asking if the Ministry of Finance is dealing with this problem in any way. Many small businesses have said that this has already become a barrier and a barrier to entrepreneurship. Too many of these bureaucratic pointless questions come from the bank, even though they could look at all this directly from the tax administration [information]. Do you pay attention to the problem in the ministry from this perspective too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U223	Thank you. Well, I have to say again that it is not linked to the ratification of this convention. The questioner says, what then, but I do remember that the Riigikogu has in the past kept rather close to this, so that it does not go too far from the item on the agenda. Nevertheless, I say that this is certainly a matter for the Banking Union in particular. I think that Parliament's political groups, too, certainly have reason to ask questions about such issues that arise, and I believe that you will probably take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U224	But the Minister certainly has the authority to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U225	That's what I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U226	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U227	Thank you. My question is whether or not it relates to the Convention. In fact, I would like to ask how thoroughly it is now that the people of Estonia, who have been in the bank account here all along, must make sure that money laundering is not dealt with for God's sake. I have an account in one bank, I wanted to open an account in another bank, it took two weeks, because they said they were gonna check if I was money laundering. They found out they weren't, and then they told me I could come and open the bill. Why such barriers? Actually, you could check out that other bank or whatever. I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U228	Thank you. I don't get it every time either. And it has nothing to do with the existence of any regulations or rules in the Convention before you that would somehow introduce it. I don't want to speak for the banks, but their answer is mostly that they're hedging their risks and assessing their risks. Why do they often appreciate them with the harshness that you referred to, and one of the forerunners also referred to them? As I said, these questions must be asked by the parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U229	Thank you. There are no further questions about the Convention or money laundering. Now we can go to the co-report, and that is why I call on Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U230	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 12 April 2022. The contents of the draft act were presented to us by the Minister of Finance, and he also did so in a very thorough manner in this Chamber. The Commission's debate was not very long. Rene Kokk asked the same question that led to such a long process of accession to the Convention and received a similar answer in the Commission as here in the Saalisk. Aivar Sõerd examined whether the ratification of the Convention would entail additional costs for the ministry or other public authorities. The Minister replied that no additional costs would be incurred. And the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 4 May, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May and to appoint me rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U231	Thank you. I don't see any questions, so that's all there is to it. The commission has, as we have just heard, proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 583. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May. Today's sixth item has also been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U232	And we come to the seventh point: First reading of the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Republic and the Amendment to the Act on Industrial Emissions 568. The rapporteur is Mr Erki Savisaar, Minister for the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U233	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and industrial emissions initiated by the Ministry of the Environment. The amendment of the Atmosphere Air Protection Act has three main objectives: firstly, to supplement the provisions of the Law on fluorinated greenhouse gases, or F-gases, to prevent the illicit trade in F-gases; secondly, to increase the fines and thirdly, to correct the provisions on external air and noise. Now, if you look closely at these goals, F-gases are chemicals with high global warming potential. The largest and most important group are hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, whose main use is in the cold economy. In 2018, [delivered] illegal F-gases in Europe were estimated to account for 20% of the total legal market for F-gases, as their price was twice or more cheaper than the price of legal gas. Most of the illegal F-gases are placed on the market in non-refillable containers whose import into the European Union has been banned since 2007. One-time tanks cannot be refilled, but they always contain some part of the gas that cannot be recovered and which is likely to leak into the atmosphere. In order to prevent the sale of such containers in Estonia, the plan is to supplement the provisions of the Air Protection of the atmosphere Act, primarily by prohibiting the transfer, brokering, acquisition and possession of non-refillable F-gas containers. The draft law introduces the possibility of carrying out a control transaction as a special measure of national supervision. The control transaction gives the Environmental Board and the Tax and Customs Board more opportunities to [discover] illegal F-gases infringements and to combat such underground activities. The control transaction also extends to unauthorised non-refillable F-gas containers sold using e-commerce and other distance selling options. Additional requirements and measures to monitor fluorinated greenhouse gases will help to achieve a fair market situation and reduce leakages from disposable containers. In addition, the risk to human safety and the environment posed by unknown and dangerous chemicals will be reduced. The main objective of the draft is therefore to reduce the illicit trade in F-gases and to make monitoring of these substances as effective as possible. The second amendment concerns penalty rates. They shall, in particular, be effective and dissuasive to support surveillance and shall be sufficiently effective and dissuasive to prevent illegal activities. The current penalty rates date from 2002 but from 1 January 2015 the Penal Code allows a maximum of EUR 400000 to be imposed on a legal person in the event of a misdemeanour. The current maximum penalty of EUR 32000 is not sufficiently effective in the event of some infringements and does not prevent an offence from paying off economically. The most recent amendments to the specific environmental laws have raised the maximum penalty rates for legal persons to EUR 400000 in the Water Act, the Land Underground Act, the Waste Act and also the Packaging Act. Changing the financial penalty ceiling provides a flexible opportunity to apply a financial penalty of a size that would fulfil its purpose, i.e. force it to comply with the requirements of the law. The increase in the level of fines under the almost entire Air Protection Act is due to direct requirements arising from the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, to creating an unfair competitive advantage for the environment or human health, and to situations where the offence may be paid off economically. The draft also amends the Industrial Emissions Act. These changes are due, as in the case of the Air Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Sea, to the need to amend the fine rates. Complex permit installations have a higher environmental impact and therefore have to be equivalent to the sanction rates of other environmental legislation. In addition, the draft aims to clarify and correct the provisions on external air and noise. These changes do not change the principles of the current regulation, but are clarified according to the practical need. The draft also contributes to reducing red tape by cancelling the requirement to measure the efficiency of the fishing gear and replacing it with an assessment of the working state of the catching device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U234	Thank you. Merry Aart has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you that. Cold equipment in farms is also relevant to this issue. Polli's apple or berry storage, which is 40 tonnes, is well - well - important for the agricultural sector, for berry production. Has the Ministry of Rural Affairs given its consent or comments on the draft? What is the length of the transition period, for example, when [old equipment] needs to be exchanged for new equipment? It's pretty expensive, especially when it comes to Poll. Have there been any such discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U236	Thank you. No, there has not been such a debate, because the legal F-gas can continue to be used; it should simply be bought officially on the market, not from anywhere under the cover, illegally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U237	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Do you also have the trends of the last three years, for example, how the introduction of these illegal F-gases into Estonia has moved? Is it in a rising trend, is it in a decreasing trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U239	Thank you. No, I don't have that kind of statistics right now. As I pointed out, it made up the circa fifth of the market, 20%. I want to believe that, in the light of recent events, it's a little reduced in itself, but I don't have any specific data. But if the members of the Riigikogu are interested, I can certainly take an extract from the known information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U240	Thank you. No more questions. Now we can go to the co-report. Heiki Kranich, member of the Environment Committee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U241	President-in-Office! Envoys! I do not have much to add to the Minister's speech. On 11 April, the Commission discussed this issue, and at least I heard Peeter Ernits' question as to whether the F-gases would somehow be over faster. Because these are obviously synthetic or man-made gases, which nature itself does not produce and which will certainly increase the greenhouse effect. At that time, a clear answer to all of this is not the case and, in this sense, the decision on these same F-gases will remain in the Riigikogu. It is clear that this illegal trade is the most important component of this draft, and it is precisely the restriction of this illegal trade that could be a matter for all of us. Everything else is more or less technical. What did the Commission decide? The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda and that the first reading be closed. That is why I would conclude the Commission's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U242	The question is Peter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U243	Good manager! Good Heiki! Thank you for such a minimalist performance. But you're the biggest specialist in F-gases we've got in this hall and you've been pointing out how they come and how they move. Rene did not receive a reply from the minister. What would you do to speed up the flow of these F-gases if that were your authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U244	Thank you. As I am here as a representative of the Commission, I am somewhat complicated in my personal opinion. But beyond the limits of my current position, I would say that there are F-gases that should be banned in Estonia on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U245	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U246	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are now again references to directives of the European Parliament and of the Council in this law on atmospheric air protection. And now that you're looking at me and looking at me, I'll show you, there's a Europe here...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U247	I don't see that far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U248	... Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. And in section 5 "Environment', which Estonia has also signed, Article III-233 is furnished as follows: harmonisation measures which comply with environmental protection requirements contain, where appropriate, a safeguard clause allowing Member States, for non-economic environmental reasons, to adopt provisional measures subject to Union control procedures. I am now asking, based on the Constitution of the European Union: how much did you implement in the drafting of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U249	Point 1. The Committee on the Environment has not developed this law. Point 2. If the Committee on the Environment had developed this law, most of the members of the Committee on the Environment would probably have gone the way that we have been very much blamed for being more papal than the Pope himself. I think that what concerns F-gases is weakly regulated at European Union level and that Estonia should be here, as I say politely, strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U250	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U251	Good manager! Good Heiki! Yes, indeed, as a Commission waitress, you can narrowly say or read what really happened there. But more broadly, I'm asking you this. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I would have been able to ask you the same questions at the time so that you could answer here right now, taking it more broadly. You, as the biggest specialty of F-gases, could now open up what gases [use] you would immediately stop and when that day will come or why it won't come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U252	Thank you. Peter, you can see it from my suggestions for improvement, which I intend to amend in this bill. And I hope you support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good Erki, for pointing out that I used the wrong wording: drafting the law. Really, it wasn't. I apologize for my false use of words. However, I would still like to know that Article III-234 (5) of the same Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe states: "[If a measure based on paragraph 1] creates costs considered to be disproportionate for the authorities of a Member State, it will be established, without prejudice to the possibility of applying the principle that the polluter is to be paid, the relevant provisions of the act adopting that measure: [---]" Now the question is which [the provision] in this fifth point provides the possibility of using financial support. Did this matter come through your committee too? If he didn't, why didn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U254	In this regard, I only have the following to answer. Crazy time calls for crazy people and requires crazy measures. And to the one who goes, hands on a long, first ask for some kind of support for shit in the neighbor's yard, you have to punch him in the head.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U255	No further questions. Thank you. That's it. That's what happened. It got me thinking. We can open negotiations if that's what we want. That's not what you want. Then it is that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 568 be stopped. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year. Today's agenda is now exhausted and the session is closed, but I would point out that in 30 minutes an additional session will begin right here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. So, I will announce an additional sitting at exactly 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U256	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the further session of the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on 4 May, Wednesday. This meeting has been convened by the President of the Riigikogu in accordance with § 49 (3) of the Home and Working Rules Act and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu of 2 May this year. And we also prepared the agenda. But before we go to implementation, we will be able to pass on drafts and enquiries if that is what we want. Today it's been once, so everyone's probably gotten that wish. Then we'll do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U257	75 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The Riigikogu will have a quorum at the additional session of the Riigikogu if more than half of the membership we currently have is present. Now, in the case of a further sitting of the Riigikogu, the presence is checked before the vote if any member of the Riigikogu wishes to carry out a verification of the presence. In the absence of a quorum, the hearing shall be terminated automatically. In addition, we must now endorse the agenda for the additional sitting. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. This additional agenda is also shared on your desks. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the agenda for the supplementary sitting of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on 4 May. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U258	There are 60 delegates in favour of the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U259	Let's move on to the agenda. The first point is the draft Act amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Health Services Organisation Act 605 initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a first reading. I would like the Social Protection Minister Signe Riisalo to sit here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U260	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am standing before you with a bill that is quite short and concrete, but there are a number of very important points. First of all, with regard to income support, this bill has created the possibility for our Estonian people who have housing loans to receive housing costs that the family bears in relation to loan contracts, including the principal payment of the loan, as well as interest, when calculating income support. We want to put this change into effect from 1 July. We have taken into account and estimated that around 900 households will come with new applicants for income support and, in fact, today's applicants may be those who might fit in. In addition, there are also existing families, so in total we have counted about 1000 households. It is important that this income support benefit is not available to families on a permanent basis, but can be used six times in a calendar year, the aim of which is to keep a person's desire and interest in finding work and improving his or her individual income. On the other hand, it is also an important nuance that we cannot take on the responsibility of the taxpayer to fully bear the commitments made by people with bank loans. In any case, this will alleviate the situation of families in temporary defaults. They also benefit from the income support system. The second amendment to social welfare relates to the one-off housing lease allowance payable to refugees and an alien under the International Protection Act, which, according to the current law, amounts to 900 euros, i.e. six times the subsistence rate. When an additional budget is adopted, when the subsistence limit rises, this allowance will automatically increase and be EUR 1200 per household. When the initial lease agreement is concluded, this resource can be used to cover the deposit or the broker's expenses. We want to make local authorities pay this compensation. We have met and negotiated with the municipalities several times. For them, the fact that the Social Services Data Register would enable the necessary notes to be made and the register to be kept and an overview to be obtained will certainly ease the payment of this benefit. These changes relate to the recording of data by Ukrainian war refugees in the STAR Information Register, in particular for the reimbursement of rent costs, but also for the smaller amount of translation services. The next amendment concerns pensioners living alone. We know that a lot of Estonian people have taken Ukrainian war refugees as a tenant or an ally to their home, and if now there should be a single-living pensioner who takes a sub-tenant, then it may happen that our system will no longer automatically consider this pensioner to be a single-living pensioner after he has entered the population register on an address basis in the autumn. That is why you are also faced with a legislative amendment that this person will not be taken as a resident but as a still-living pensioner, so that he will not lose the one-time, single-living pensioner's allowance that has risen significantly this year. As a reminder, it rose from EUR 115 to EUR 200. And now the last amendment to the Social Welfare Act, but far from insignificant. We know that local authorities have been very busy dealing with Ukrainian war refugees and putting a lot of work and energy there. It is therefore very important that we also compensate for the additional costs of calculating the income support that the local government has done in the course of administrative procedures due to an increased number of people. And here we've been based on a pretty simple logic. This year, the costs of processing and payment of income support will be reimbursed to the local authority in addition to the normal costs of each application by which [growing] due to the higher number of applications submitted by the local municipality [working] from January to October 2022. [Based on equivalence] is the same period in 2021. There will be no unfair treatment, and local authorities will be able to do their job in a calm and secure manner and carry out these tasks. This package also contains a separate health care organisation law. This is so that we can also provide the necessary health services in the context of mass immigration, as well as those Ukrainian citizens who come here after fighting and being wounded in Ukraine. So it is about funding the health insurance fund and creating the possibility that both health care providers and ambulance crews can pay their bills according to the Health Insurance Fund's price list, in particular for the treatment of injured persons. I will also say in advance that in hospitals in the Estonian hospital network we do not have Ukrainian wounded soldiers at the moment, but we will create an opportunity for a situation if it occurs. And last, such a minor change concerns the law on family benefits, the text of which unfortunately remains one inappropriate. Although the explanatory memorandum makes it very clear what the legislator's will has been, we would really consider this threshold for parents who are granted parental benefit and who have not worked in the past. We do not pay unfairly high support to people who have not earned it through their work. But I repeat, this is a technical correction, a correction of the error. Now the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U261	Yeah, questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U262	Good manager! Minister, thank you for this thorough spiritual work. It has not been possible to read all the numbers and to examine the balance between them. But I'm gonna ask you a question like this. The health check for each Ukrainian refugee is set at EUR 400. Is this also intended for health surveillance of people who have lived in Estonia so far, including those who do not have a health insurance card?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U263	Thank you. It would be a pleasure if you could put this question to the Minister of Labour and Health, Tanel Kiige. I'm sure he knows a lot more about me than that. However, I can tell you that, on the basis of the Health Insurance Fund's price list, we can all have a health check through family doctors. The reason we are doing the health check for Ukrainian war refugees is the protection of public health. When we talk about various possible infectious diseases and their potential spread, we are able to control both COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. That's definitely the background.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U264	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U265	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. These are a number of very sympathetic and important changes that this law wants to bring into effect. Yesterday I also asked the Commission about loans. In the case of loans, the principal and not the interest shall be included in the [invoice] of the loan. Local authorities themselves should establish the limit for the main part of the loan. I was in contact with at least six municipal social workers yesterday, and they are actually looking forward to explaining how to impose it, because the [amount] will depend on the length of the loan period. Someone's taken 20 years, someone's taken ten years, someone's taken five years. There's some explaining to do. If the law enters into force on 1 July, the time for the councils to be able to adopt these arrangements is extremely short. I don't have a direct question, but just confirm that this training, the explanation will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U266	Yeah, I'm sure we're in constant contact with the local authorities. I believe that it is vital that we cooperate so that local authorities can also learn from each other when implementing such new things quickly. Perhaps the revision of the regulation on income support in local governments, which is linked to this amendment, will give impetus to the revision of all the thresholds that have been autonomously established in the local government for energy and heating standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U267	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, as Helmen said, there are many good suggestions in this draft. However, I have a more precise question about the EUR 1200 subsidy for military refugees for rent support or guarantee, as you said. And it's going to go through the municipalities. In some cases, for example in South-East Estonia, it is 1200 euros very okay and a large sum. In the case of Tallinn and Tartu, I do not know exactly how it is. But I have a broader question: how many people are still in public accommodation today and how many people have gone to the rental market. How does it work? I know that Otepää tourism farms inside the forests still have hundreds of war refugees. How do they get there? There are no jobs there, no rental market in Otepää. How do these people get intel and get in the right places? And does this money go to Otepää or the municipality where they want to rent [residence] in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U269	Thank you very much. First of all, we have 35,000 war refugees in Estonia today or a little more. 4500 are in short-term accommodation, including the people in Otepää you mentioned. Indeed, those in hotels and tourist farms are in short-term accommodation. As a country, we have said that we will cover their maintenance costs for at least a month. We have tried to lower these costs because it is a common resource for our society. That is why we have introduced a ship in Tallinn, among other things. If, within a month, it has not been possible for these people to find a permanent residence, either by themselves or by means of outside aid, we will, of course, not throw them on the street, figuratively speaking, but will continue to support them. According to law, once again the reference to the law granting international protection to an alien is four months. We are actively creating these opportunities for long-term accommodation, be it student homes that have stopped empty, or large institutions from which we have taken our people to small new cosy care facilities. Many of the buildings of the Defence Investment Centre are in use. And this extra budget also has less than 2 million so that we can clean up existing buildings and take people there for long-term accommodation. Cooperation with the private sector has also been very important. In the Portal Real Estate24, there is a separate section of the portal for people in Ukraine where they can look for these places. But I assure you that despite the efforts made by our local governments, our Estonian people, also the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the biggest problem from a social point of view is the long-term accommodations. We work every day to get these places. But today's situation is, of course, already taking into account the flow of settled refugees, that if every day we come into short-term accommodation for people who need it, about 40, then a hundred and more will go to long-term accommodation every day. So this process is continuous.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U270	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U271	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I heard you say that a single-living pensioner, under this bill, will not lose this support if he takes a Ukrainian war refugee to live with him. I would also like to ask and tell the people of Estonia that if, for example, a single mother in Estonia needs housing and a single pensioner living alone takes her into custody, will she lose this support? And if so, why is such a distinction made? Secondly, I would like to ask whether this is a temporary or permanent change. In the future, I do not know, in 10 years, in 20 years, all those who come from Ukraine, these Ukrainian citizens want to go underground to a single-living pensioner, then they can do so, but our own single mother cannot, for example, because the pensioner will then lose the support of his own-living pensioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U272	Thank you for your question. We have 33000 war refugees who have come here in a very short period of time. And as you have already heard from the previous response today, we are facing a major problem as a society in order to find long-term accommodation. We do not have 33000 single mothers in Estonia, who also have no residence. The people we have to help as a society today are war refugees. This is only a temporary measure for war refugees. And as you all know very well, according to the European Union directive, war refugees will be here for a year of temporary protection, with the possibility of two times six months being extended. During this period, this relief can also be implemented according to the law. In normal circumstances, it's all different. And we have different measures for parents raising children alone, including the EUR 50 allowance in the reserve, which I hope will be dealt with soon by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U273	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You do little and do little to support Estonian young families and [at all] families. You are probably aware that the Estonians' lives have been falling for years. Estonia is in decline, fewer children are born. Do you not have any good ideas about how to support Estonian families or why you do so little to support Estonian families and children? If you don't have any good ideas on your own, borrow from the EKRE programme even if you make the next additional budget. We had a very good plan to compensate young families for 25% of their home loan at the birth of each child. Do something big, do something for Estonian families! Why are you fine-tuning? I am asking: could the same mechanism for compensating for home loans for families come up with the next additional budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U275	Thank you very much for your question. Here today we are discussing an additional budget, which is a wartime budget, where we are talking about our defence capabilities, our internal security and as much as possible, in the context of an additional budget, which is clearly this year's budget and has no impact on the next few years, including helping our own people. A number of measures are foreseen for this purpose. But it is very good to go into all these debates this year, which we have ahead of us, which is the year before the election. I believe that every political party has many good ideas, and certainly every minister can come with his proposals in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. So this is the time to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U276	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U277	Thank you, manager. Thank you, waitress. I would like to ask you about the diseases of war refugees. When Mart Helme recently spoke here about raising such risks, the Estonian storm rested. All-Estonian! And look at the wonder, you're coming now and you're offering 20 million euros, 400 euros per person, to let them pass the CT scan, and I think all the other [equipment] too, because that's quite a lot of money. I hope they're not gonna be put to shame in public. In the opinion of some journalists or politicians, you should suspect them of becoming ill. There must be some kind of double standards. But I'm asking why it's so big. $20 million is an impressive amount for this kind of thing. And at the same time, there are only 16 million for military capabilities directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U278	Thank you very much for your question. As this is the area of government of the Minister for Health and Labour, I am indebted here to explain exactly what is planned to do for this resource. But I can send you this answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U279	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U280	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I gave a speech here two weeks ago that caused the storm, and some have claimed in the press that I called all the women whores I didn't do. But now we have news that only 1,500 war refugees have passed a health check. It's only 1,500! Among them, 32 HIV positives have already been detected on Saturday. 32 HIV-positive on Saturday! My concern was not in vain, and your hysteria, esteemed liberals, was in vain. But here's my question. The question is that you have created a situation where part of the people who have recently moved to Estonia live just as in communism, and the rest of them have to pay for this communism. Is this a solidarity society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U281	Thank you. I will focus on this issue and repeat that we have more than 33000 people, of whom only 4500 have temporary housing to emphasise, on a temporary basis. All other people have found themselves either on their own or with the help of someone, and this someone is often a relative, familiar, including, to a large extent, an employer or a local government, housing for themselves. They are making efforts to find jobs. At the Labour Market Board, more than 5,000 people of working age have registered as unemployed, with a profile of 25 to 54-year-old graduate women. And a considerable number of people have already been employed. They are people who are trying to cope in a foreign country, in a state of war and come here with children. It is certainly not easy, and it is up to us to maintain our empathy in order to support them in creating conditions for them to cope on their own. And true, those who are more vulnerable, whether they are disabled, whether they are women who come here with a large family or with many children, or some other people, such as older people, people with mobility problems, these people, really need more help, as do those whose traumas have been seen as being worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U282	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U283	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You always say that health is not a subject of the Minister for Social Protection, but health happens to be a very important part of social protection. And besides, why do we ask [you]: The Minister of Health himself is sick, as I have heard. So you could shed some light on the government's work. But here, the target is 32282, but today I'm reading that it's 35,000. Why do you come at this time and age with a number? But the question is that there are supposedly 600 Ukrainians in Otepää, but there are about 6,000 people living in the municipality, so 10% [form] they are there. But as I've heard, kindergarten places and so on are only 60. Can you tell me how high this percentage could be that a cup of suffering would be over the edge of a single municipality? 15% or 20%? Or maybe 10 percent already?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U284	Thank you. First of all, I would like to remind you that I will introduce here today, at first reading, the Social Welfare Act, which relates to income support and some other issues. I really have not come here prepared to talk on health issues. I'm sorry about that. With regard specifically to Otepää, your colleague has already been answered in this Chamber today. This is temporary accommodation. During the temporary accommodation period, it is really good to be able to organise child care, so that parents can look for work and arrange their documents so that they can manage here in Estonia on their own. These people don't all stay in Otepää, they get long-term accommodation every day, and they move on every day. Similarly, people in Otepää's parish are no longer placed today. So Otepää certainly does not need any kindergarten place or school place for all these children, as it is a temporary place to stay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U285	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U286	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We are really hearing this big horn from you right now, how everything is so terrible, everything is so difficult and poor war refugees, and there are so many of them. But I'm sorry, you carry more of them all the time. Today we heard from the Prime Minister that they are now crossing the eastern border in hundreds and hundreds and hundreds. This process is out of control. But I'm asking you what I asked the Prime Minister, but it's in your jurisdiction. Your Chancellor Mändmaa says this: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has mapped out 26000 houses and apartments with electricity bills indicating that they are unlikely to be used continuously. What's the plan for the Social Insurance Board with these empty apartments? In our constitution, it is written that property is sacred. In order to accommodate these war refugees, does the Estonian state intend to break the Constitution and somehow introduce these empty dwellings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U287	Thank you for your question. I'm sure no owner will go against it. These empty dwellings have also been tried, with the help of local authorities, to review whether there are suitable dwellings among them. [Could perhaps] talk to the owners and conclude contracts if necessary. No one's property will, of course, go after them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U288	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U289	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. A good colleague, Siim Pohlak, asked why there was nothing much being done for Estonian families, for young families, and you replied in some way that this was a wartime budget and that it was temporary. So these effects will not be passed on to the next year. I'm asking you as a member of the government how it is. Here is the 607 SE, which we are going to process and which is also part of the wartime budget. [According to this] the value added tax (VAT) of the press will be raised from 9% to 5% for an unlimited period of time, and will remain so on a permanent basis. Am I misunderstood? Will you do some things on a permanent basis with this wartime budget, which you say it is actually only for one year, until the end of this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U290	Thank you for your question. I am pleased to say that there are indeed some measures aimed at the people of Estonia and which are permanent. For example, raising the same level of subsistence. It is also in the interests of Estonian people to take housing loans into account when calculating income support, and this will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U291	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister. Coming back to the electricity bills: this is clearly an illegal pursuit. There can be no justification for the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs, I do not know through whom, Elering controls any housing where the consumption of electricity indicates that they are not constantly used. It's illegal surveillance. You cannot contact their owners and propose to them. Do you realize that you are violating the Constitution, the privacy of people's private property and their right to be released from their surveillance? In other words, you know what I mean. But here's my question. You're telling us here what a terrible situation it is that we have so many war refugees. Who brought them here? After all, you brought them here, carrying 500-600 more people every day. And then you complain that our society is very difficult and that we have a wartime budget. We don't have a war. We don't have a war! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U293	Time, Mart!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U294	And my question is, but what happens in a year? In a year, are you gonna send out, or what, extend? What's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U295	I will answer the question and leave aside the introduction and the question as to why you brought them here and why you continue to bring them here. You must have misunderstood. Indeed, we are in the European Union and the European Union jointly adopted the Temporary Protection Directive. Citizens of Ukraine enjoy visa-free movement within Europe, whether or not they wish to. Regardless of our different decisions, Ukrainian citizens have always had the opportunity to come here. Without this temporary protection directive, they would have been able to stay here for three months. With the Temporary Protection Directive, this option has been extended to the year. And as I have already said today, there is also the possibility of extending it twice for six months. The possibility of extension is only an option if the reasons continue to be such that a person cannot return to his or her home country. I very, very much hope that these reasons will fall away, that Ukraine will do well and that people will be able to return to their homes. As much as I have spoken to the refugees of war and also to the Ukrainian ambassador in Estonia, the great and sincere desire of the people is to return to their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U296	There's been a procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U297	Yeah. I want to point out that the minister is lying to us. Estonia has no obligation, either national or on the basis of the basic acts of the European Union or other contractual documents or other documents, to accept a number of Ukrainian war refugees in excess of their power. Estonia has no such obligation. Other countries have taken significantly less [than] percent of their population as well as absolute numbers. If Estonia has received a large number of refugees beyond its power, it is the fault of the Estonian government and the justifications of the minister are literally lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U298	It wasn't procedural, but okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U299	Yeah. I guess in that case, I'm taking the right to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U300	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U301	I will continue to point out that this is a joint decision of the European Union. Estonia is part of the European Union. No European country has declared where it runs the line of how many Ukrainian war refugees will be received. On the contrary, we have an extremely pleasant cooperation with, for example, the neighbour of Finland, who has been encouraging, among other things, war refugees arriving here to show them the opportunities to come to Finland. And a large number of war refugees have moved on to Finland. Estonia is an attractive country in the eyes of Ukrainian war refugees, mainly because of our similar history and cultural space. Similarly, Ukrainians are likely to believe that a country that has had to leave [the world] of its citizens at one time during the war and whose people have been war refugees, that we understand their situation and their needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U302	Let's stick to the procedural content. Mart Helmel is back to procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U303	Thank you. Well, the minister keeps lying. There are a number of European countries that have said very clearly what their upper limit is. One is France, which has said that 50,000 are their upper limit. Germany has said that they do not take up a certain line. Now, in Britain, leaving the European Union, it has been a scandal that they have said that they are taking very little. You don't read Finnish newspapers, I do. Finnish newspapers already have a theme...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U304	I'm sorry, but it's not procedural! [[The manager will try to explain.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U305	... The topic in Finnish newspapers is that Finland no longer wants to accept as many Ukrainian war refugees as it is coming. So please...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U306	Mart...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U307	... I will call the minister to order. And the fundamental rights and needs of the people of Estonia need to be respected, and this cannot be done at the expense of Ukrainian war refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U308	Mart, this was already part of the negotiations, it wasn't procedural. Heidy Purgal has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U309	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask that the sitting be chaired in accordance with the procedure of procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U310	As you can see, I am. Heiki Hepner, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, This bill, I agree, is subject to quite substantial and necessary changes. But as stated in the explanatory memorandum, there is a considerable increase in the administrative burden, and so does the municipalities. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also states that it is planned to conclude administrative agreements between the local authorities so that the costs relating to beneficiaries of international protection can be reimbursed. Please shed some light on what these contracts are all about. What steps are planned and how this work should proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U312	Thank you for your question. We are currently negotiating with local authorities. Yesterday we had a meeting, which has resulted in clarifications and improvements to the management contract. I believe that we have reached a common understanding with the local authorities that administrative costs can be covered, among other things, from resources transferred through an administrative contract. It's written like that in the treaty. In addition, we are looking for funds for the European Union's scraps in the last period, because the European Commission has said that countries would use European funds more boldly than they have previously in the interests of Ukrainian war refugees. And that's where we plan to give local governments additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U313	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm confused now. You have just defined that the term of temporary protection has been extended from three months to one year, i.e. 12 months, and, if necessary, it can be extended for a further period of two months. Didn't I? But I wonder why it is necessary to put all their rights and things into a separate law about temporary people. Could this not be resolved, for example, by government regulations or orders? Why are all our laws now being changed to this, even though it is a temporary need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U315	I repeat: temporary protection is one year with the possibility of extending twice for six months. This is what the Temporary Protection Directive of the European Union says. And I repeat once again that an extension is possible if there are reasons that prevent a person from returning home, i.e. more easily, military action in Ukraine has not stopped. As far as the amendment of our laws is concerned, we will not change the laws for the benefit of the beneficiaries of temporary protection beyond what is strictly necessary. At the moment, we consider it necessary to display certain data in the Social Services and Support Data Register according to this draft. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U316	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U317	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns this EUR 1200, which will then be. Can it be used by the lessor, for example, to put on a heat blower, and does he not have to give it back afterwards? Is it meant that if the tenant goes away, the money will be returned to the local government, as is often the case with the first deposit? Is that what it's meant for? And now this rent. In fact, local authorities have very different rental markets, which also means that the rent is very different. I understand that the local government will establish it, but if, for example, there is a minimum wall of 400.500 euros in Tartu, is it possible that the local government will compensate the landlord for all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U318	Thank you. In particular, under the law granting international protection to an alien, the starting-up allowance is intended to cover the costs related to, for example, the deposit, the rent for the first month and, where appropriate, minor improvements. I have met with various local authorities who have said that they own housing that has been abandoned and needs major cleaning. This expenditure can certainly be made by the local authority out of EUR 900 at the moment. Now, when it comes to different prices on the rental market in different regions of Estonia, indeed, these prices are different. There is a place of consideration and choices about how much we, as a society, are able to help ourselves without hurting our livelihood. The fact that we are now going down the road that, with the rise of the subsistence limit, the amount of aid or compensation will be EUR 1200, I think it is reasonable and sufficient. The aim is not to pay Ukrainian war refugees the full start of the rental agreement. Most of them also have resources and resources of their own, some of them have already gone to work. And that means that they are paid on an ad hoc basis, paid to those who need to start a rental relationship. That is what we want to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U319	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U320	Thank you. Dear Minister, As is known, Russia's aggressive plans are not limited to Ukraine, but [are related] practically to the whole of Western Europe from East Germany. In this sense, many social and political figures claim that Ukraine is now fighting for all of us, not just for its territory, but for the freedom, dignity and honour of the whole of Europe. In this sense, it is rather strange for me to hear derogatory and repelling lines in this Chamber towards Ukraine. I do not think we are helping Ukraine, but we are paying it our debt. The question is, do you share such a sentiment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U321	I am certainly among those people who have great sympathy for the people and people of Ukraine. The bravery that the Ukrainian people as a whole, not only the soldiers, but also the women in the rear who are heroically working to support the soldiers, have done for their country in these months, all that the whole world has seen is unprecedented. And I think that everything we can do to help Ukraine, be it for war, for humanitarian aid or for helping the Ukrainian people here, is never too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U322	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U323	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking about a great IT system like S.T.A.R.T. It is well stated in the explanatory memorandum that the Social Insurance Institution transfers the personal data of a person seeking international protection and in need of protection to STAR in the course of his/her activities. This STAR is, on the one hand, a very important tool for municipalities as well, but quite often there are still problems: it does not work, it does not get into it, it does not receive this information from there and so on. As this burden is now increasing, I really understand that the Social Insurance Board is still assuming this responsibility and the municipalities do not have to start transferring these data themselves, and this S.T.A.R.R. is still carrying out this additional administrative burden. I'm just waiting for a relatively short answer: yes. But, of course, you'll be able to open it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U324	Thank you for your question. If it were so easy that I could just say yes, I would. But it's a lot more complicated than that. I come to that again, sorry, but really, 35,000 and a little more people from Ukraine have arrived here. The majority of these people have found their own place, rented their own apartment or live with acquaintances and have not reached the Social Insurance Board's field of view. All those people who have come to temporary accommodation, for example, since the reception centres in Tartu and Pärnu were opened and all those people, yes, have been granted temporary protection from there. But not everything is there. So that's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U325	There's been a procedural Peter Ernitsal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U326	Good manager! The procedural point is that Mr Lotman here suggested that our line here is the so-called black sheep, who are left cold by what is happening in Ukraine. I mean, it touched me. I am clearly on the side of Ukraine and on our side, but first and foremost we and I are following, at least where I am, the situation of the Estonian people comes first. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U327	It wasn't procedural, of course. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U328	Thank you, waitress. You have said beautiful words about Ukraine, we also say, we are also living with a whole heart, but only wars with paatos do not win; only infectious diseases with paatos are not prevented. And when we see that at the end of last year we had a record of a small number of new HIV drivers, we are now in a situation where the number that was brought in yesterday's newspaper, EPL, was astonishingly large: 32 cases per 1,500 cases. Should we not react very quickly and decisively to carry out this same health study, to map these diseases, to help these people and to advise them? Otherwise, it could get messy. For two years, we've been making a masquerade, keeping watch, doing a shuttle race, and now we're a little too worried, especially in the case of HIV.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U329	Thank you very much. Far from being careless. And that is also one of the reasons why the expenditure relating to health surveillance has been included in the supplementary budget. This is a public health issue; it will certainly affect the entire Estonian people, not just those who come here. It is very important that we know the health concerns of the people who arrive here. Then we can respond to them, help them, and thus protect our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U330	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U331	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For me, this legislative logic remains very confusing, and I am still trying to sort it out a little bit. From now on, a criterion such as those granted temporary protection is introduced into the law. At the same time, we know that Ukraine is seeking membership of the European Union. If Ukraine is accepted into the European Union, who are these people? What are the names of the people we now have war refugees? Then they are still those who have been granted temporary protection, and then are we going to bring new provisions back into the law, and we are going to abolish them again? How does that make sense? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U332	Well, obviously within a year, it is simply not possible for Ukraine to become a full member of the European Union. Which means we're still talking about a time frame. Never before have we implemented such a legal design as this temporary protection directive and God would grant that we will never have to implement it later. But it probably won't bother us in our legal space if it stays here. In case we ever have to, I don't want to say it at all, it's the same situation and the same need again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U333	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U334	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! We have an absolutely clear and clear basis for which [supported] refugees we have and a system in which they can extend their stay in Estonia. It's all clear and clear. But suppose the war ends one day and all these Ukrainian refugees in the corpore leave their homeland. But we've changed the laws. We have still not heard from you the answer to the question of why it is necessary to introduce the changes relating to refugees into our laws. Suppose these Ukrainians really go away, but these changes are still in our laws. Why can't we solve these things with government regulations, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U335	Thank you for your question. It's a legal theoretic question. If we have an emergency as we are now, the government has certain powers. If we had an emergency, the government would have different and greater powers. We do not have this plan today, of course. However, if the emergency should end, the government does not have such powers, we must also talk about every legal provision separately. We cannot generalise that all the changes concerning Ukrainian war refugees are unnecessary in law. My draft specifically contains questions concerning the composition of personal data in the STAR Registry. And they simply have to be regulated by law, either legally or technologically. If we collect data on people, including their personal identification numbers, then [for the reason] that we want to know to whom we offer help, so that we do not do it twice in several municipalities, for example. That is why we must make these changes. However, the different provisions of different laws are likely to differ in their reasoning. Here we are specifically talking about the data to be collected on individuals, and it must be included in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U336	In the meantime, there's been a procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U337	Yeah, there's nothing I can do, I object to the Minister's use of the word. We don't have a war situation. Who has declared a state of war? Where's the war situation? The war is in Ukraine, a thousand kilometers away. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has carried here 36000 so-called war refugees and says that we have a war situation. We don't have a war situation, we have a peace situation. We have an extra budget, but we don't have a war situation. Please use terms correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U338	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U339	Please listen to me exactly. I was talking about an emergency and an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U340	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U341	Minister, thank you very much. This EUR 900 or EUR 1200 in the future, I don't know which one to use, I understand that very well. It is either a deposit or the first [rent] deposit or whatever. I have two questions. Let's just say that if half of this is a deposit, half is a first deposit, is that half, for example, 450 euros, going to ask the local authority to come back because it was a deposit? That is one [question]. But the other thing is, if, let's say, this money is used to put in an air heat pump, it's used by a private person, not by I'm talking about a local government, is this 1200 euros going to non-repay or must be paid back? And if a person is a beneficiary of income support, for example, if he receives half a year there and so on with this income support and his rent is paid, how much is that maximum? Is that set?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U342	I'll start with the other one. The rent has not been set. We have a free market in the rental market, which we do not regulate in any way. However, this is partial compensation within the limits of the resource that we can provide. And if that allowance or, sorry, compensation is paid, it will not be recovered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U343	I can't see any more questions, but it's been procedural again. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U344	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I just took the procedural question before, because I was disturbed in your speech that you used the "war budget." That was before. And when Mart Helme talked about it, I remembered that you used it. Is it really a war budget that will soon be discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U345	Yes, Europe is at war, not Estonia, but Europe is at war. The war is taking place on European territory. And that's what I may have tried to express in too literary terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U346	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U347	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm really sorry about my question, but maybe you can clear up a little bit. I'm so confused. We talk a lot about Ukrainians, helping them. I agree with that one hundred percent. But Indrek Tarand, a high official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, has written on his Facebook page, and I quote: "I have always had difficulty understanding what this Ukrainian people are. It was difficult to find the Russians in Soviet times [---], and their endless contribution to Soviet domination was also dubious. How could Polish Setus, Donetski mining workers, Odessa Jews, Crimean Tatars, descendants of various Cossacks and Soviet Russians form a nation? What of Stalin's grace that the representatives of such a nation were among the founders of the United Nations?" When a high official writes such things, what do we want people to understand or think about it, or how do they view it? How do you interpret it? I'm really embarrassed to ask you this question, but it's causing a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U348	Thank you. But this question certainly does not concern this bill, and it is impossible for me to comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U349	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U350	Thank you very much, manager. Dear Minister, I have a somewhat awkward question. It is a bit of a norm, and it concerns the explanatory memorandum to the same draft. The explanatory memorandum contains § 1, the scope of the Regulation. In general, the law usually states that if conditions are introduced, then is that if there is a condition 1 and there is a condition 2, then there is such a result. Or used another structure that, if is a condition of 1 or is a condition of 2, then the result is such. The difference between the two structures is that in one case the conditions must be applicable together and in the other case the conditions must be applicable separately. If I now read it in § 1, which says that the regulation lays down the conditions and procedures for the payment of health care services from the state budget through the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for the treatment of persons affected by the spread of the virus causing COVID-19. Here, they're both at the same time. Is this a mistake now, or is it supposed to be that these conditions have to be at the same time: both getting wounded and the COVID virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U351	You read the explanatory statement or the [draft] paragraph? (Paul Puustusmaa answers from the floor: "It is now in the explanatory memorandum. Yeah, it's an explanatory statement. ") The purpose of the Law has been to keep [in mind] the treatment of persons who are or have been injured in war as a result of an emergency. Either way. I can't comment on that part of the explanatory statement right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U352	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U353	Good manager! Dear Minister, We know that 12 and 16 buses of war refugees were brought to Estonia from the Ukrainian border or from Poland. When you visited us in the group to present the current situation, you argued that there were no agreements between this NGO and the government on how to proceed with these people and help those who have come to Estonia for the horrors of war. Sometime later, we read in a press release that there was some sort of agreement between the government and this NGO. Was it ordered by the state that certain NPOs with buses brought people from the border to Estonia every day, while other countries did not perform such operations in the majority? I understand that at one point your government didn't know that, at the other point, I think there were agreements. How exactly was that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U354	Thank you. Neither the government nor the Ministry of Social Affairs had an agreement with [Estonia] Refugee Aid and we certainly did not finance them either. However, the NGO was able to deliver [Estonia] Refugee aid for the resources of the Estonian people who donated the money. The only attempts to reach the agreements that my office has made has been to call on them to be moderate in bringing people here. Bringing these people here is followed by helping them find a job and a place to live, finding kindergarten and school for children. It is quite irresponsible to think about only one step; it is always necessary to think about all the next steps. I have had such conversations with [Estonia's] Refugee Aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U355	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U356	Thank you for your meaningful answer. And I thank you for understanding this issue in the same way. It is a painful subject and it is always difficult to find the best solution, but I understand that we are currently solving the active actions of some people. It is, of course, a very responsible activity that they did, but it would have been good if it had been in line with the government and the local authorities, so that there would not be situations like the one we read in the press at the moment. The Mayor of Otepää says that so many people need help that the municipality simply cannot do so. But I ask you again, the other half of [the question] is that we have a debate today on the subject of an additional budget. [MTÜ] Slava Ukraine has made a call to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to buy first aid packages in Ukraine for 1.6 million dollars, but we do not see such grants anywhere in the supplementary budget to actually help Ukraine. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That must have been the purpose of this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U357	Thank you. I have been responsible for putting together this budget for the part concerning support for the Estonian population, these are matters related to coping, and also matters related to war refugees. The part that is involved in humanitarian aid is to a large extent curated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And you can ask the Commission for more details and discuss whether there is a place in the budget for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U358	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U359	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U360	Please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U361	Good minister! I have another question concerning the draft explanatory memorandum. I mean, we have talked a lot about receiving international protection and the conditions and reasons involved, and so on. And the same explanatory memorandum states that this draft has nothing to do with the implementation of European Union law. Can you explain to me what this sentence means in this context in the explanatory memorandum that it is not related to the implementation of European Union law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U362	Look, if we are about to transpose a specific directive and there are specific obligations for us, it is very directly linked. In this case, we have already adopted this directive on temporary protection. Now we are adapting national legislation to deal with the people who have received temporary protection here. And these people, also under our national law, are not really people who apply for international protection, but have a temporary place of residence in Estonia. So by this logic, we've just created one denominator for them now in law and also in the explanatory memorandum so that we can understand which group of people we're talking about. They are Ukrainian citizens and their family members who came to Estonia after 24 February. We will then call them the beneficiaries of temporary protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U363	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U364	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Minister, I heard you say that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not financed these buses. As far as I am aware, Mondo receives money from the Estonian state budget as a partner of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as several other non-profit institutions, human rights centres and GoBus have received money for transporting refugees to Estonia. And a lot of it's been through the Ministry of Social Affairs, I can't be sure which minister downstairs. But I would like to make it clear: can you confirm that they have not received any money from [the State]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U365	Mr. Martin Helme! When we are talking about refugee aid for bringing war refugees here, the Estonian people donated very generous money during the first weeks of the war, but also during the first month of the war, to help Ukrainian war refugees. It was the resource for which refugee aid could make these buses move. Yes, at one point, the refugee aid approached me with the question of whether the state would take over this funding. Even the price of one day was told to me. The country didn't take over. As regards the other activities of the various non-profit organisations, outside of Ukraine to assist war refugees, yes, there are also those mentioned among NGOs who have been partners to the Ministry of Social Affairs at some point in time. Returning to the context of war refugees, I assure you that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not financed the activities of these partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U366	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U367	Thank you, that was a clear answer. I understand that we can walk in circles like this, that people gave donations on the one hand, and the Ministry of Social Affairs on the other hand gave money, but not for this activity. But I still have a question: can you tell us that none of these NGOs that have brought people from Ukraine by bus to Estonia have received any money from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U368	Thank you for your question. But you can't answer that. Because if you ask me if any of these non-profits, I don't know exactly which non-profits you're talking about. Therefore, I cannot give such a general answer either. And I repeat: the Ministry of Social Affairs has not given any NGO money so that it can bring war refugees from Ukraine or the Polish border or from anywhere else to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U369	Dear Minister, No further questions. Thank you. I now ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. I wanted to say 'Chairman of the Social Protection Committee', as the Minister is, but we have a Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U370	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Health Services Organisation Act 605 yesterday, 3 May. Like here today, the Minister gave us a very thorough overview in the Commission, and I am not going to introduce it here. But I will mark the topics we asked questions or discussed. These issues also went through very clearly here today. They asked about the mortgage and the limit on how this compensation would apply exactly. I am not going to go over it here, Minister, in his replies, repeatedly emphasised what this compensatory measure we have. It was also examined how long [long-term] this measure was. As the minister said, it's six months. Six times a person can be compensated for his or her mortgage when crossing the income support limit. In addition, we spoke of the payment of an additional EUR 50 allowance, granted once to all children and the elderly and paid out in the autumn. The Minister also said that it is not in this draft, but this amendment will certainly come. So when I introduce this draft to you at second reading, I will certainly present this amendment as well. Then the commission made decisions: to appoint me as the representative of the commission, to propose that the first reading be closed, which was the same consensus, and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 15.00 p.m. on 11 May. There was a similar consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U371	Good waitress, thank you. No questions for you. Thank you. And now let's move on to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Mart Helme. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U372	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U373	All right, let's have a look.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U374	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I remember you've given one of my speeches a very colourful assessment that it must have been horrible and disgusting. I hope I don't make such a horrible and disgusting speech this time. But I can't be quiet. And I have to say, of course, that these Wednesday days are very sad when we have Question Time here and questions from members of the Riigikogu are answered sprainfully and morally read. Today it was a great story of how it was said how personal insult is the worst way to hold a debate, that the best way to hold a debate is to argue an argument, and then the next questioner was immediately flown with personal insults. Oh, great! But, Minister, I would like you to listen very carefully. Now, please listen carefully and come down from the ivory tower on Pärnu Highway, which is an extremely ugly house! I'm going to read you a post, a new post today. I do not mention the person who has made it, because the Republic of Estonia has become a repressive body against truth-tellers, abusing our so-called free media. I could feel it on my own two weeks ago when I was attacked by a bunch of rabid journalists. But I'm going to read you this post now. Today I was accidentally listening to an interview between the Ukrainian refugee and the employer. Five euros per hour. Answer: "Horošo. " Later, I asked if taxes would go off, or if there were five Euri. Answer: Still pay for it, because there is no need to pay social tax for the Ukrainians. They are insured, they prefer to work blackly, so that all benefits, free apartments, free medical care, free school and hobby groups remain in place for children and so on. What country do we live in? The country is organising mass black labour immigration for us and promoting the movement of jobs to immigrants. After all, the employer is also enjoyable if he does not have to pay taxes for the employee. The taxes are for Estonians, and the benefits are for strangers. And that's what we've been trying to make clear to you throughout this round of questions. We understand that the destruction battalion of the Reform Party, of course, does not listen to what the ambassadors ask, and does not answer the questions of the ambassadors, but is conducting this ideological talk, which they are smooth, I cannot say, burned in their brains. This is extremely regrettable and I predict to you, dear Reform Partymen: those who fall from above will fall down painfully. The problems I referred to two weeks ago in this remote control have already arrived. But they're still flowers, they're coming. The conflicts that you have imported into Estonian society today have not even reached flowers yet, but they will arrive. And this is the result of the criminal policy of your government, its policies that underestimate the people of Estonia, take advantage of or not increase the benefits of its people. And then, of course: "We are in wartime, Europe is in war. " Look, you're so young maybe you don't remember that there's been a war in Europe before. In the first half of the nineties, Bosnia was a war. Terrible things happened. The word "Srebrenica" may be familiar to everyone, but it was only one of [many]. Terrible things happened. But we didn't have wartime then, nobody said there was a war in Europe. We have an extra budget for wartime, we have war refugees. Why didn't they tell you why they're talking now? But perhaps because at that time Estonians had not escaped Estonia by one hundred thousand as a result of the work of the Reform Party's destruction battalion, because we now have thousands of empty villages. I went to Pärnu this weekend, met people. You know, I've been in politics long enough and the skin is pretty thick. But I had tears in my eyes. I had a cry in my throat. When Estonian aunts, Estonian mommys come and say that we can no longer cope, we cannot cope. "I don't know, I can't afford to pay." I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U375	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U376	"I can't afford to pay for all this anymore, I can't afford any more food money. I have a daughter retiring in two years' time, and I don't know how we're gonna do it." This is, my dear minister, your field of work. You have received a mandate not from Ukrainians, who are actually mostly Russians, but you have received a mandate from the Estonian people. Represent these Estonian people! Stand up for them, but don't carry tens of thousands of strangers, tens of thousands of strangers, whose benefits are to be paid for by their poor people. This is not a solidarity society that you love to talk about, there is no solidarity here. Let your people see for themselves how they can handle it, but let the strangers gold over us, for "think, they came from under the bombs.'. Of course you came from under the bombs! Of course you came from under the bombs, but why are you bringing so many of them here? And then you lie to us: no, the country has not paid for them. The state will pay for them. All the time, all these NPOs, refugee aids, and I don't know what kind of help they are. I mean, the money's been distributed. We're not really stupid in this house either, we know how these moneys are distributed to different budget lines and how the state actually finances them, through projects and so on and so forth. And then you come and blow into our teeth here: no, the state has paid nothing. It's just that words get stuck in the throat with this arrogant, vicious lying, wrestling, and crossing your people with a tank. Think of your people! We are doing everything in our power to make our people understand that you are not thinking about your people, but that you are thinking, according to the commands you have quoted here: it has been decided in the European Union. Interesting-interesting that all the decisions of the European Union are to fill Estonia in bulk, but others are optional for execution. The Marionett government, of course, cannot think about its own people and stand up for its own people. And you're the puppet government. This is extremely shameful and leads Estonia to very serious problems, economically, socially, ethnically and securityally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U377	Thank you. Dear Mart, you started with me, and I'm done with you. I say I don't agree that we have rabid journalists. I certainly don't agree with that. So, the round of negotiations, [speaks] representatives of the political groups. No, I don't. I understand that the Minister wishes to speak in the negotiations, this opportunity you have. I would like you to join the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U378	Thank you. Good ambassadors! I had no intention of coming back to speak. You kept me here nicely answering questions for a long time. But listen to the previous speech, I must say, please, good ambassadors, give the people the right information about the actual situation. Please don't brag about false information! If people have misunderstood and are doing posts, correct and tell us what is really. Ukrainian war refugees are not automatically insured when they come to Estonia. They are insured on the same grounds as the Estonian people. If they come here and receive temporary protection, they are temporary residents of Estonia. This means that their security comes with work or registration as unemployed. Health insurance is just like our people under the Health Insurance Act. True, children and older people, pensioners are insured, not of working age and automatically. In order to obtain benefits in Estonia, the obligations that Estonian people perform here on a daily basis must be fulfilled. As regards the manipulative behaviour of employers and the possible exploitation of Ukrainian war refugees, if these individual peppers spoil this honey pot, which is our Estonian labour market and our employers' good reputation, any law-abiding citizen will pass this information on to the Labour Inspectorate so that the Labour Inspectorate can intervene in the exploitation of people. And when it is said that something is being taken from the people of Estonia or given to the people of Estonia, I remind you all that these are the decisions that the Riigikogu has contributed to in order for them to happen. 7.8%, i.e. 42 euros, increased the pension of the average pensioner this year. The pension will rise exceptionally from 1 January. The support of a single-living pensioner rose from EUR 115 to EUR 200. It will be paid out this autumn. The average pension will be exempt from income tax for the following year. And according to this draft, the subsistence limit for Estonian people will be increased from 150 euros to 200 euros. In addition, our people who have suffered temporary payment difficulties or a setback in their economic livelihood have been given the opportunity to take into account the costs of housing loans when calculating income support. It's for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U379	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 605 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3 p.m. on 11 May. The first reading is closed and the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U380	We will move on to the second item: First reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 606. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to serve as a rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U381	Honourable speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is a draft before you, which, in short, aims to support farmers and the agricultural sector at this time and in the year when food security, I must say again, because of the war that Russia has begun against Ukraine, has become a meaning that we obviously have not been able to attribute to it in normal, peaceful times. The content of this draft is to reduce the excise duty rate on special-purpose diesel until the end of this year to the minimum permitted in the European Union. It is EUR 21 per 1000 litres. The current rate is EUR 100 per 1000 litres. I fully understand that the following will mean a procedure that is faster than normal for Parliament, but I will nevertheless say that I hope that this draft will become a law in May, so that it can be implemented from 1 June. If we can implement it from the beginning of June to the end of this year, the impact of this draft on the collection of excise duty will be estimated at EUR 4.5 million this year. This has a total impact on the state budget and will also affect VAT receipts by up to EUR 1 million. As has been said, this is a draft that directly supports the agricultural sector, farmers. And if, after two points, we come to an additional budget procedure, it should probably be dealt with together with the support for farmers included in the supplementary budget. It is essentially a single package that supports this sector in its difficult times and in the face of the crisis. Thank you. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U382	Thank you, Minister. You have at least three questions at the moment, there may be more. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U383	Thank you. Madam Minister! One part of what farmers have proposed to mitigate the impact of the crisis, which is to be welcomed. Now, as can be expected, my question is simple. It's a time limit for this year. The practical side is that it is actually going to be very difficult in agriculture at the end of this year and at the beginning of next year. For a simple reason: 90% of the fertilisers were stored by farmers at old prices last year. The real hell's gonna go off in the fall and spring. In this sense, this window of time should be extended for at least two years. I believe that in about two years, a new agricultural model will fall into place, from which we will receive fertilisers and [other] inputs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U384	Thank you for that question. Since this is a draft relating to an additional budget and the additional budget concerns this year, then the deadline contained in that draft, which is written there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U385	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U386	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If we are now talking about this specially labelled excise duty on fuel, today it is EUR 100 per 1000 litres and we are taking it there to EUR 20. However, in Latvia and Lithuania, it is EUR 60 for seven months. It certainly cannot be said here that we have done so with regard to the additional budget, because some other points are those which have no deadline at all or have longer deadlines. We now have many excise duties reduced until 1 May next year. Could have been the same with specially marked fuel, and then recovery by 25%. Why wasn't this discussed? Why was there an exception to five times lower [than the current excise duty] and three times lower than the excise duty on one fuel on the neighbours?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U387	Thank you. I did not understand now whether you think that this amendment should not be made, that it should continue at the current level where it is now. But in general, I also referred to the support package for the agricultural sector included in the supplementary budget because, firstly, these changes were examined together: the same additional support that we have the possibility to pay the agricultural sector from the additional budget, plus EUR 2.5 million from the European Union. They were examined together with the introduction of a minimum excise duty on special-marked diesel as the same supplementary proposal. Why and how was the level of excise duty for Latvia and Lithuania assessed, for example, the level of excise duty on specially labelled fuel? Again, the overall competitive situation was still examined. There are other ways in which these countries support their sector in these difficult times. Our choice is as proposed here. I must say that I have received very positive feedback from the agricultural sector itself. Rather, it is expected and appreciated and found to be really supportive at a very difficult time. So if it was meant as a criticism of why it was needed, then I believe that the agricultural sector really needs it. I have already answered your colleague's question about the deadline, but this is a first reading. It is currently presented in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U388	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U389	Good Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. This is a separate draft, not an additional budget. There's even a number here, on 606. My question is what Mr Padar has already asked: why so briefly? It's not like this mess isn't going away, it's going to keep going. You said it was an extra budget. But it's not an extra budget, it's a 606 SE. Why is this deadline until 31 December? Why is it even put there? Actually, it could be a little longer anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U390	Thank you. I didn't say it was an extra budget. That is not the case, of course, because the additional draft budget will only come to us in two points. However, it is linked to an additional budget. Like I said, it's a first reading. During the reading of the draft act, amendments can be proposed, discussed, and it is not specific that the draft procedure will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U391	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U392	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, support [the opinion] that this period is very short. This year's spring sowing is over, the next one's no use. But in the case of drying costs, the [benefit] is better than nothing. Thank you for that. But my practical question is that it says, May 1st. However, if this law is not immediately passed, today is the first reading, or will it be taken by Midsummer Day, for example, will it apply retroactively from 1 May, or will it only apply after the law has been adopted? That would shorten that time even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U393	Thank you for your question. I said in my introductory speech that, since we are really already in May, it is probably possible to implement it as soon as Parliament is ready to deal with it so quickly as possible from 1 June. And that change has to be made. If the adoption is delayed, this means that the entry into force will shift to a later date. By making it clear that this is a fast pace of procedure, I hope, however, that we will be able to deal with and discuss this draft in such a way that the law can be implemented from 1 June, the sixth month. (There is a comment. President: "There is no way to ask back and forth. ") In the Official Journal of the State, I was in the middle of a response to the publication of the Official Journal of the European Union, because it is also possible to publish it electronically in the Official Journal of the European Union. It won't take long.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U394	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U395	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, Estonia is a fucking wonderful country. We have petrol prices on the ceiling, diesel prices are on the ceiling, gas prices are on the ceiling too, electricity prices I'm not talking about, they're totally in space. Food prices have increased and, as a result of all this, Estonia's inflation rate is what it was now, a worse amount, I guess? - 19% increase in prices. And as a result of all this horror, in other parts of the world, for example, in France, when fuel prices rise, people riot on the street. But explain to me this phenomenon how it is possible that, after this huge price increase, the Reform Party's rating is 32%! I don't know what the reason is. Help me explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U396	Thank you. I understand that for you, this is the most important issue you have to worry about right now. But this is not about this draft, which aims to support farmers in difficult times. If today's drafts are discussed on the Riigikogu agenda, we can certainly discuss this subject separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U397	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U398	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I certainly support the fall in excise duties, and this also in the case of fuel specially labelled for farmers [necessary]. And it also affects fishermen and everyone else. But I have a question from here. When you found that one area, or farmers, should be helped a little, was there a debate about all other fuels [excise]? We have news today that Latvia has decided to abandon the bio-addition. Very likely [to be won] per litre, the Latvians say 12 cents, but I think 8 to 10 cents per litre will get cheaper. They already have a little cheaper fuel, and this could lead to a return to border trade. Larger transport companies are already discussing the possibility of refueling in Latvia. Were there any discussions that still we should look at a little bigger picture: all diesel, petrol and plus a bio-addict? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U399	Thank you. These discussions were also still more broadly about excise policy and changes in excise duties. And as I have said before in this very Chamber, we will certainly monitor the decisions made by our neighbours. And, of course, the competitive situation must be taken into account so as not to create a situation in which our companies are [in difficulty], where their competitiveness is further hit by the fact that neighbours behave differently in excise policy. So that's definitely what we're watching, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U400	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U401	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, No doubt the reduction of excise duties is a step in the right direction, but as is usually the case with this government, not a decent step of man, but such a babe step. There is a need to be critical about this. Indeed, the problem is not only in agriculture or oil shale mining, but in fact the problem should be looked at more broadly. [It is] indeed also in energy, for example in heating homes. Why is it not included here that we lower excise duties at least to Europe's minimum when using oil shale oil, also when using specially labelled fuel and specially labelled diesel, for example, for heating? Why have such restrictive choices been made, and why has such a decent long step not been taken? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Energy directly affects the wild inflation that has hit us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U402	Thank you. One of your fellow Members has just pointed out that this is not a babe step, but perhaps even a too long step, as the specially marked diesel excise duty in Latvia and Lithuania is higher than after this change in Estonia. Well, one says too much, the other says too little. I guess it's the right place for the change. A specific proposal is to reduce the excise duty on specially labelled diesel to a minimum level in the European Union. There's no way to take it down. And the purpose of this draft is to support the agricultural sector and farmers. And this sector, specifically, knowing that it is a sector that is facing very difficult circumstances in the near future, precisely because of the war in Ukraine. The aim of this draft is to provide support to this sector. I think that bringing excise duty to a minimum will fully support and fulfil this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U403	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U404	Thank you! Honourable waitress, you did not, as if, want to answer my previous question, what is this phenomenon, which is why the rating of the Reform Party has become so high on the enormous cost of living. 32% of the population thinks that the Reform Party is doing a very good job. You said it had nothing to do with this bill. I will then try to link [my question] to the bill. Now you want to reduce the excise duty on special-purpose diesel. What do you expect, how much can the Reform Party's rating rise after this change enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U405	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure it's meant to be such a wit for you right now. But I am quite seriously saying that I think the times are such that this is a matter that we have to deal with. Now is not the best time, or not at all, to read somebody's ratings points and somehow debate the popularity of a party at this level. It has nothing to do with this bill, I don't think it's appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U406	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U407	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Well, the aim of the draft is to support the agricultural sector, in itself, is positive. But as I said, step and ambition should be more than repeated. Because indeed, inflation is very high and is undoubtedly affected by additional excise duties on all types of fuel. And let it also be said here that according to this draft, special-purpose diesel is allowed to be used in agriculture and, for a fixed period, in oil shale mines. You have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that oil shale mines are also permitted, even if the law in force allows it. I'm asking if you didn't think that maybe you should allow it in other mines. After all, we also use gravel, sand and limestone, and all of this affects our lives and also increases the price of these products. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U408	Thank you. We did indeed, as you yourself pointed out, come from the framework of the law that has now been presented by the legislator. The one to whom the specific amendment extends is already enshrined in the law in force, and that is what we maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U409	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U410	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You have said that this reduction in excise duty is for a small group now, but there is no point in lowering excise duties on fuel to large populations if we want to act in solidarity with neighbouring countries. Have you discussed with a Latvian or Lithuanian colleague to reduce excise duties on fuel together?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U411	First of all, to clarify whether it's a small draft of company or not. This applies to all Estonian farms using specially labelled diesel. So I don't think it's very small company. This concerns farmers to a significant extent and therefore a necessary and substantial change is necessary. I have spoken and talked, I have consulted both the Minister of Finance of Latvia and Lithuania, and we have also discussed this issue with the Finnish Minister. After all, everyone in our region has the same concern. This situation, in which we are now in the security perspective, we have never been in a security crisis as serious as we are in our area. Which means that all countries will have very high costs this year, as well as additional costs in the coming years, which must be done in order to strengthen security. And my colleagues, both a Latvian and a Lithuanian colleague, have indeed shared this concern and attitude, and have also found that if there are more needs in essence every week, rather than fewer, we simply cannot decide that we will not collect a tax in some significant amount. We are now facing a very difficult year, and if we were to make such a decision in the first half of the year, this would mean that we would probably just have less opportunity to support where it is most critically needed, perhaps to make the important security-related decisions that we have to make and which call for funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U412	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U413	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, I don't know what reason for the security situation you're here now. On security, national defence will receive an additional budget of 15 million out of 800 million and, in internal security, with the exclusion of refugees, 20 million. This is not a security budget. I don't know why you're saying this. I, of course, have such a slightly more philosophical question. The Reform Party, as well as you specifically, have always been very fiercely opposed to all kinds of tax differences. And, of course, you have been vehemently opposed to a tax reduction. I remember myself, when I was at the front desk as Minister of Finance and I brought excise duty reductions into this hall, the Reform Party in general and you were very opposed to it in particular. Now, I'd like to ask you two things. How has this road to Damascus gone that you agree with one tax reduction and tax differentiation? And why did you stop halfway there? We have also brought here a number of other tax reductions that the people of Estonia would very much need. Where were they?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U414	Thank you. Now I have to correct you again and say that if the draft that you have tabled provided for excise duty to rise to a pretty high level, the current government changed this decision and canceled the increase in excise duty. Now, yes, I guess you weren't in the hall at the very beginning when I introduced the bill. Indeed, the aim of this draft is specifically to support one sector and it is the agricultural sector. This is support for farmers because it is a sector that is hit very hard in the current crisis. And food security in situations where very difficult developments are likely to occur in the second half of the year is, in any case, important. We have therefore considered it reasonable to come to Parliament with this proposal. Would it be better not to make this proposal? Yeah, sure would be better. Putin better not have started the war, but he did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U415	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U416	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Very good bill! Very good bill! I am delighted that [considered] is not only for machines that work in a field but also for those that work in dryers and elsewhere. But my question is, when you prepared this bill and thought about it, did your analysis suggest that this blue fuel could be used to heat buildings? It's forbidden right now. Once upon a time, red diesel was used to heat buildings, but it disappeared. At some point, they started burning blue fuel, but it was banned so it couldn't be used. So, did you think that you could allow buildings to be heated with blue fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U417	Thank you. This was not the case separately at the time of the debate on this draft. As I described, this draft actually works as a package with support for farmers included in the supplementary budget. We were looking for a solution [to the problem] to how best to provide support in the agricultural sector in a difficult year. And it's essentially like two parts or two pillars. Firstly, the additional support contained in the supplementary budget, plus 2.5 million by the European Union, and then the introduction of a specially labelled diesel excise duty at the minimum level. This was the course of the debate, and this time the focus was indeed on farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U418	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U419	Thank you. Good minister, old question. How do you know a reform party is lying? Well, the mouth is moving! The story that we are, or I've caused excise increases, I'm surprised you're still talking about it. I brought in excise cuts, which were fixed-term, and surprise-surprisingly, this bill, too, is an excise cut, which is fixed-term. It turns out that the acutely hit agricultural crisis will end with the end of this year, in your opinion. And then it's going to go through a rough rise, and this same excise is going to go through a rough rise. Now, I have a question. Again, I ask the same question: why did you stop halfway to Damascus on your way? If the agricultural sector has been hit sharply, do you not think that any other Estonian economic sector has been hit sharply? Why don't you lower excise duty on fuel in general, and why don't you lower excise duty on electricity and gas? Why don't you cut the VAT? Because everything's been hit. And why do you want to increase the excise duty at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U420	Thank you. I have already answered this question a few times today, because it is an initial draft relating to an additional budget, we have such a proposal. But I have also stressed that this is a first reading, two readings are still ahead of Parliament. As far as the rest of the excise duty is concerned, as we have done in the past, both in Question Time and in response to questions, we have discussed and discussed this, and we will certainly also monitor what our neighbours are doing in excise policy. Just a moment ago, I answered one of your colleagues' questions about whether we have discussed excise policy with Latvian and Lithuanian ministers. We've been through this. And once again, since this is a year where there are huge financial needs, exceptional needs, security needs, we have certainly been double careful to take decisions that take away tens of millions from the state budget. That has been the reason for this caution. But as I said, yes, what our neighbors are doing and how they behave, we are, of course, watching. I have said this in the past that, if it is necessary, it certainly needs to be responded to, and we have the readiness to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U421	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It is undoubtedly a very good and right decision for farmers to make this excise duty. But it's just that it reminds me that when the last government did it, we got a lot to beat, including me, that it applies to oil shale mines. And that's exactly what a green turn and all that is in the key to how we screw up a green turn in Estonia, and so on. Just wondering if, in the meantime, the priorities have changed in any way. The Reform Party has said that fossil fuels must all be highly taxed in order to contribute to the green turn. And now, anyway... Of course, I support the fact that the oil shale sector can use this fuel with excise cuts, but have the views of the Reform Party changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U423	Hasn't changed. As I explained, since the law currently in force is so that it is actually equalized, we did not start opening this dispute further at the moment. This proposal concerns those sectors which are currently covered by this specific rate. It was a simple reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U424	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! A very grateful and sensible proposal and different times require different measures and solutions. But I would just like to ask, because, in the case of excise duties and reductions or changes in excise duties, there has always been talk about previous periods, so that it is clear to everyone: what was the plan of the Ratas government with this excise duty? Did you have to make any changes here compared to the Ratas government and save somebody, just like you've done on many other occasions with excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U426	Thank you. The reason for this amendment, and the reason for this draft, is that Russia has embarked on a new, fully-fledged military attack in Ukraine. This is where we are now and what we need to respond to. There's no reason for us to try to bring this kind of domestic politics into play here. That's the reason for security. It is also about food security, and that is what we need to respond to and why we have proposed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U427	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U428	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You keep talking about the wartime budget. It reminds me of the old man moaning that his health is poor, but I don't know what's gonna happen when I get old. But what if there really is a war and there is a wartime budget? Don't overdo it in this war. But since you're talking about the wartime budget, I have a question. There are, in fact, ridiculously small sums of money that actually go to internal defence and security or the Ministry of Defence, and there is virtually no concrete. So what exactly do we get with this money to increase our defence capacity and secure internal security? Can we be concrete?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U429	Thank you, good questioner! Your question concerned a completely different bill. We are now discussing the draft excise duty, this issue was about an additional budget. We'll get to that in two points.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U430	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U431	Thank you, thank you very much. Good Minister, I have a question that, when the government specifically discussed the reduction of excise duty on this specific fuel, whether or not there were possible other rates of excise duty. If so, why did you come to realize that it only makes sense to deal with this particular type of fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U432	Thank you. I have already answered that question a few times today. Within the framework of this specific draft, there was a desire to focus on the concerns of farmers and to resolve it. And it relates to the second part of the supplementary budget to which we come for two points. The focus was on providing support for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U433	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please ask Aivar Koka, Deputy Chair of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U434	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 606 at its meeting on 3 May. Erle Kõomets, Head of the Department of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Lauri Tolumees, Chief Specialist, Kadri Klaos, Head of the Department of Public Finance of the Department of Fiscal Policy, and the Minister of Finance participated in the discussion. We know that at the moment the diesel excise rate is EUR 100 per 1000 litres, which is about 10 cents per litre. The aim of the draft is to reduce the excise duty rate to a minimum rate of EUR 21 per 1000 litres as defined in the EU Directive. Then the rate of excise duty will be 2.1 cents per litre. The draft will result in less fuel excise duties of EUR 5.3 million this year. The VAT gap may be up to EUR 1 million, but must be taken into account in the spring forecast rather than in the autumn forecast. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance said that they saw such a tax measure as an opportunity to improve the competitiveness of farmers and to some extent to secure jobs in the agricultural sector. And in line with the agricultural sector, this would also help to reduce the costs of oil shale mining. Jürgen Ligi mentioned that, in fact, we have no problem with food security when it comes to costs. During the war, prices have gone up; there is no reason to lower input prices. A polite explanation would be if we could find out what the situation of our neighbours is, whether we are going to be down in any way and whether it will also affect food security. Riina Sikkut asked whether we would actually five times the increase in excise duty from 1 January and why this change would be made if the input price had an impact of around 7%, about 10 cents per litre. Aivar Sõerd said that he understands the state and situation of agriculture and these things, but we are currently reducing the excise duty rate by 80% almost five times, but its impact on input prices is only 1.4%. Inefficient measure, but costly for the budget. Riina Sikkut also noted that in thin countries, smarter solutions should be possible. [He said] that it is surprised that there is a dilemma between the reduction of excise duty versus the payment of direct payments to farmers, which is more complex. It was therefore decided to reduce the excise duty, while the coalition did not support the draft aid for school food. I asked whether there was a reduction in diesel excise duty in the debate, the benefits of which would be considerably higher and the impact would also be greater, because the goods were still transported to the shops with large cars. The Minister replied that there was no discussion within the framework of a specific draft as to whether it should be further extended or not. Rene Kokk asked that if the draft was not adopted in May, would the excise duty rate be effective from 1 July. The minister replied that excise duties would certainly be applicable from the full moon, but he hoped that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Riigikogu would work smoothly and the draft would be adopted before 1. [June]. The Commission made consensual proposals to appoint a speaker before you as rapporteur for the Commission and to set the deadline of 11 May at 15 a.m. for the submission of amendments. There were five against three, no abstentions. And there was a proposal to finish the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U435	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions for you. I open negotiations and request a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group to the Riigikogu Chair. Ivar Padar, please! And there's always a chance to get a little extra time, three minutes, if there's a wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U436	Let's set it up just in case. You need it or you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U437	Let's set it up, so eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U438	It's like a sleeper. Ladies and gentlemen, It's very positive that this bill is in front of us today. Its initial impulse came in the form of five proposals made by the Chamber of Agriculture in March. The Chamber of Agriculture and Trade proposed five ways of mitigating the crisis in agriculture. Two proposals have been resolved in the supplementary budget. One is the reduction of excise duties on fuel before you, and the other concerns the maximum co-financing of European Union crisis assistance. And clearly, of the five issues, these two are also the least money-intensive. In the negotiations on the budgetary strategy, one of the biggest and most money-intensive issues will be the rate of co-financing by the state of the CAP strategy plan, which is currently taken into account for the minimum level in Estonia. It would make sense to make it much bigger. So two out of five proposals have found a solution in this budget today. It is clear that this financial impact this year will not be so great. If we take the increase in input prices, which have hit the agricultural sector, then if we count it on the fingers, I have seen that this year's price increase could be 300-500 million this spring. This is the very high price increase that has been. At the same time, it is clear that a great many farmers had received fertilisers for this year already at old prices last year, which makes the spring situation somewhat less difficult, but it becomes extremely difficult for autumn and next year, although the buying-in price of cereals has also increased. Still, the difference is pretty big there. So I will certainly propose, in the course of this reading, to extend the period when farmers will be able to use a reduced rate of excise duty on fuel until the situation in agriculture stabilises in the new situation. He'll stabilize. They'll find new places in the world to get fertilizers, and at some point the war will be over. So there is every need to support this further reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U439	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech by Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I'll tell you right away, there's a chance to take three more minutes, if you want, but you can watch it on the run. So the choice is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U440	Let's take it from the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U441	Let's do it, eight minutes. Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U442	Thank you. I will come back to my question in my speech. The Reform Party and today's Minister of Finance have been saying for years that tax distinctions are bad and tax reductions are even worse. But look, everybody has a chance to fix themselves. We still received one tax distinction and one tax reduction. I just have a few questions. Why does only one liver get smaller? In this rabid round of price increases and inflation where we are, tax reductions are a definite administrative way of reducing price increases and price pressures. Why only one liver? My second question: why only until the end of the year, temporarily? Dear friends, you really want to raise taxes. Your rhetoric, when you talk about the tax policy of the previous government, the draft tax reduction that was brought here is, in fact, the draft tax increase, because this tax will rise again from the end of the year. Why can't it be permanent? There are probably no people in Estonia who think that the increase in fuel prices or the global price increase in the world and the increase in energy prices will end on 31 December this year. Do not raise taxes from 1 January, please! We're talking about not worrying, we're coming in with an extra budget and the RES in the fall, and then we're going to put an extension in there, so now I'm going to get back to my earlier position. How do we know the reform party is lying? We know the mouth is moving. I don't think so! I don't think so! Better set a permanent deadline for this tax reduction right now. And even then, we have a doubt in our minds that sooner or later it will be taken away from us. Now, as for the excuse that we have to do this together with Latvia and Lithuania, it is very familiar to me. Officials told me that when I was a minister. There wasn't a single time that went by ECOFIN, the European Union finance ministers' meetings, where I didn't talk to a Latvian colleague about taxes. Sometimes I spoke to a Lithuanian colleague, but more with a Latvian colleague. Sometimes I also spoke to a Finnish colleague about taxes. That's how to say now, a ritual dance. This is the idea that you can tell me that we've been talking. Each country still does its own tax policy, and that is tax sovereignty. And [each country] does so on the basis of what is beneficial to its economy and its people. We can discuss whether Latvia and Lithuania are coming for us or not. The real fact is that countries are making their own tax policies and other countries are reacting to it. The fact that we already have an awfully large minus in the state budget, and that is why we cannot have taxes or, say, other excise duties or, for example, VAT reductions, is true. The Reform Party has created the biggest budget deficit of all time with this year's budget and this additional budget. This is the same Reform Party that has been telling us, solemnly, for decades, almost shaking hands, that proper public finances are their main purpose in life and that it is still necessary to keep the budget balanced and that money can only be spent as much as it is at the moment. Now it turns out it was all bullshit. Money is spent a lot more than it is. A sound state budget is only necessary if they are in opposition. In fact, the Reform Party, in power and [in the head] of the Ministry of Finance, is speeding up the country's bankruptcy. The size of the increase in the budget as it is in 2022 has never been in Estonia before. There has never been such a huge budget deficit in Estonia before. Even in a time of extreme economic crisis and when the economy virtually stopped in the corona era, there was not so much budget deficit. As much debt as the Reform Party is currently working on us, Estonia has never had. So the Reform Party is driving us bankrupt. That's what we've figured out. These numbers don't lie. Even the Fiscal Council, which, of course, has generally given us a reverse split here in order to prove that everything is well, was forced to admit that we are essentially on the verge of bankruptcy with the state under the leadership of the Reform Party. I'll come back to lying again. What we are talking about is that such a huge minus is essential, because we have a war, because it is necessary for security, and it is all one of the inevitable costs of national defence, in fact, when we look at the state budget, not the specific draft that we have ahead of us when we look at the state budget, then 800 million is the volume of the state budget. 800 million! Extra budget volume, sorry. But how much goes to defense? You stick around, you get 15 million. Let's see how much goes into internal defense. You're fingering me, you're gonna get $20 million. We're talking 35 million inside 800 million, that's the whole security section. That's the security part: 35 million out of 800 million. Where's the other money going? Where's the security, where's the war? The honest answer is that, in the course of the next draft, we will try to clarify, but let's just say we could use it. It just needs to be done. In this sense, you could look up all these fine quotations that budget discipline still has to be and shouldn't spend money that isn't there. But look, I could use it. One more small remark. Why is there an exception, and why is there an exception in this particular area? There is a crisis in this area and they are groaning. I totally agree. I agree that it is very important in agriculture that input prices are low. I've been in favour of this for the rest of my life. We have brought a bill to this hall, which lowers these excises, but it is not enough, because everything is in trouble. All areas are in trouble, everyone is groaning. The authorities are in trouble, the ambulance doesn't have any fuel in the car, the police don't have any fuel in the car because of the increase in fuel prices. People, ordinary people don't have fuel in the car. Everybody's groaning! That means that it is absolutely not enough that you have brought us here. It is necessary to reduce the excise duty on all fuel types to a minimum. It is also necessary to lower VAT so that people can get a scream in this, in Europe's largest [in price increases], we are the first in Europe, of course, it is always important for the Reform Party to be the first in Europe, we are the first in Europe with our price increases, we are the first in Europe with the fall in the purchasing power of our people. It is necessary to reduce excise duties on all fuels, as well as VAT, in order to fall down from this first place, even slightly. And these are certainly proposals for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U443	I now ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Koka. Would you like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U445	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U446	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We were here on Monday, 18 April, I recall, a week and a half ago, when the Minister of Rural Affairs gave a presentation on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." After the Minister's speech, I came to the speaker's desk and asked about the fact that there was no combination of actions and talk. I asked you about the excise duty on special-marked fuel. Thank God, I understand that the Minister went quickly to the Minister of Finance and the problem resolved in the government, and today we are discussing a draft whereby the excise duty on special-marked fuel for seven months is reduced five times. This [rate] will be three times lower than in Latvia and Lithuania. But really, this bill is not a draft reduction of excise duty, but it is today a five-fold increase of excise duty from 1 January. When it comes to input prices, it is very clear that we should talk about what the state can do. The country can minimise excise duties in the European Union in all [areas]. When someone says that this is not financially possible, yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was a little funny when I asked how this calculation was done. If the calculation of the additional budget is to take into account the autumn forecast for the previous year, the Ministry of Finance officials have calculated the amount of expenditure and revenue for that year's spring forecast. It is clear that the use of specially labelled fuel compared to diesel is like night and day. Farmers also need to use a lot of conventional diesel, not all machines can be fitted with a special mark [fuel], and can only be used when working directly on the field. We have been discussing this bill again for two months with an additional budget, and now we are surprised that the Latvians have decided that they will not add any bio-addition. Actually, this discount right here is a little less than eight cents a liter. But the bio-addition is of the same magnitude. The Latvian says it's 12 cents, but I think if it finally reaches the price at the gas station, it's eight to ten cents. With one hand, we are trying, like, to gain a competitive advantage, but in fact, in the second step, we will not achieve this. And I do not quite understand what is happening within the Reform Party, because if the Minister in a good way supports at least one line of excise duty cuts, both former finance ministers in the Committee on Monetary Affairs destroyed this bill and said it was not right. However, the Chairman of the Group says that our draft, which was today's first item on the agenda, was the reduction of VAT, he supports the completion of this first reading. And the Centre Party promised here on the floor today, I hope that the chairman of the Group, who is still the only member of the Centre Party in the hall, plus the Chairman of the Riigikogu, that we will definitely proceed with this draft. I believe both the Chairman of the Group and the Chairman of the Riigikogu that in a few weeks' time, at second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we will prepare for this and proceed with both VAT and excise duties. In fact, the task of all 101 members of the Riigikogu is only one: to support our people. At the same time, a member of the Riigikogu said today on the floor that this is not really a goal. The purpose of the State is to collect taxes. Taxes are still collected for redistribution and support for their people and businesses, not for anything else. The aim cannot be simply to collect taxes. The aim must be for the people of Estonia to succeed. And in today's emergency situation, where Russia is at war with Ukraine, and we must support the Ukrainian people who have arrived in war-escape Estonia, the situation is a little different. Once again, however, I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will support the amendments that, I believe, come from several political groups. The excise duty cut must be complete. In my opinion, this particular labelled fuel used in agriculture, fisheries and oil shale mines could be a clear solution, just as the rest of the excise duties do: excise duties will initially be reduced until 1 May next year. The new composition of the Riigikogu can make other decisions if necessary. For the remaining excise duties, it is currently agreed that the increase will be 25% per year for the following three years as from 1 May of the following year. This system should be available for all drafts when they come to the hall. It can't be that something is the same, the other principle is different. Today, however, all business must be supported, and we know that when it comes to excise duties on petrol, we have ordinary people on one side and the other side is the transport sector, whose prices affect all our inputs. If the biodiesel supplement disappears from Latvia, the refueling will again cross the border to Latvia and the income that everyone has predicted, both excise duties and VAT, will not be collected in Estonia. On this bill, too, I would have liked to see neighbors looked at and a decision made. I believe that it would be much more useful for farmers if, at the moment, excise duty had not been reduced five times, but the same level as the bio-addition in Latvia, but they would have ended not on 1 January but on 1 May and then 25% would have started to rise if necessary. But right now we are creating a situation that hope and a bright blue dream is that next year's state budget will extend this option. We are reaching an additional budget today, and I would like to make it clear that if the government has spent hundreds of millions of dollars and this is not in this year's budget, and I do not see it in the additional budget, then how these expenditures will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U447	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. I ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U448	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I consider it my duty to respond to some of the arguments that sounded from this remote control earlier. First of all, as regards the additional budget and the expenditure incurred by the state, and how it relates to previous budgets and how these commitments have been or are planned for the state, and whether or not they are the greatest spending ever. Just a reminder to the previous speaker, who should know this information in his sleep. When we talk about 2020, the then Minister for Finance planned an additional budget deficit that exceeded 10%. At the moment, with this additional budget, which we have made with the current government union, in circumstances where the COVID crisis may not be over and where there is war in Europe, we will reach just over 5%, or twice the deficit, if all the negative assumptions come true. In 2021, my predecessor left us a budget with a deficit of EUR 1 billion 682 million. It was about 6% of GDP. By the end of the year, even though it was a year of the COVID crisis, we reached a deficit of half the size, so we halved the planned deficit and reached 2.4%. We would, I think, all of us would be pleased if we were not now in the circumstances in which we have to make these choices and decisions in this security crisis. But as I said, it has not been our choice. We need to level out the effects that are reaching Estonia because Putin started a full-scale attack in Ukraine again. There was now a grand appeal that all excise duties should not be collected and that VAT should not be collected. However, I am saying that if you come with this proposal and make this proposal, it concerns the tens of millions of euros that will not be collected, and then I would like to ask you honestly, from the outset, to propose what kind of tax you would like to raise to cover it. There must be a cover for this, and without it, this proposal, which you are talking about in a grand way, cannot be discussed. Why do you need the bill in front of you? With the proposal for a reduction in excise duty on diesel, which is specifically labelled, the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, came quite immediately after the military activities in Ukraine intensified, when it was clear that, for example, our farmers are in a very difficult position with regard to fertilisers. And this initiative, which is important for the agricultural sector, which has been presented by the Minister for Rural Affairs, has indeed been supported because it is aimed at a specific sector in a very difficult position. This is support for the agricultural sector and it must be treated as such. The extent to which prices are directly affected is very difficult to predict and is not directly intended for this draft. The aim of this draft is to support farmers and I therefore ask for this draft to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U449	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 606 at 3 p.m. of 11 May this year. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U450	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the first reading of Bill 607 of the Amending Act on VAT initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to serve as a rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U451	Honourable speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This bill has also been presented to you because we are in a security situation where one of the weapons used is information operations, an information war. In this situation, in order to literally support those who are at the forefront of the information war, to support the professional press, we are proposing to bring the VAT rate, which is currently 9% for press publications, less than 5%, and thereby to give the publishers of the press the opportunity to contribute, above all, to maintaining and improving the quality of the press. In this way, the independent professional Estonian press can be supported in the ongoing information war against democracy directed by Russia and in the environment of information attacks. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you. And I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U452	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U453	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I wanted to let you know that I support this bill, Minister. This is a very sensible bill. But the reasons you've brought are pretty absurd. I don't want to deny the war and all that, but from 9% to 5% of this VAT can be brought down peacefully without these reasons. We don't have everything to do with this war. If we consider it reasonable for the Estonian press to have 5% VAT instead of 9%, then we will do so, but let us not link all this to it. But my question. This morning, the Andres Sutt Group visited, who spoke about it a little bit about [the current subject], about Omniva or the IPO of Eesti Post. If we still have a universal service linked to the parcel business and want to take the company to the stock market, the cost of newspapers and magazines will not be reduced in practice. How do you see these questions in the complex now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U454	Thank you. I disagree on whether it is absurd when, in the circumstances of the information war, even more attention is needed in press publications than in the past to the quality of their service. And I also argue that the importance of having a reliable press is particularly acutely conscious now that the information war is taking full advantage of it. It has something to do with the bill, absolutely has something to do with it. We have not discussed Omniva's issues in the context of this draft, and therefore I cannot respond to it in any way. I do not know what exactly you discussed in your group today. It is therefore difficult to link these things together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U455	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U456	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I also have to say that I do not mind that VAT on the press is being reduced from 9% to 5%. Although I don't really know why it would be so useful now. But that's my question. We talk a lot about food security. We spoke very much about the difficult situation in agriculture in the previous [point of order]. In fact, it really is very difficult. Did you also discuss a reduction in VAT on food, for example, in Lithuania and Latvia, which reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables that are specific to the regions to 5%? It says here about revenue and expenditure that VAT receipts are decreasing. The Latvian experience is that the shadow economy actually fell considerably and came to the budget with money. People can buy, farmers can also benefit from it. Did you discuss this in the context of VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U457	Thank you. This draft was not discussed. However, I must say that the experience you have indeed referred to confirms that the impact on price, if you try to regulate the price through it, remains very short-term, if not non-existent. The purpose of this draft is not so much to focus on prices, but indeed, just as the previous draft was to support the agricultural sector, it must be treated as it is. It's support for a sector that's at the front line in the information war. This is not necessarily automatically linked to the price. Is there any way that the impact of this change will be passed on to the price? I don't have the guts to say that. Time will tell. But that is not the purpose of this bill directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U458	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U459	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. It says here that hundreds of journalists are supported by... [[It's buzzing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U460	Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U461	That hundreds of companies are supported by 5.7 million. And here it is said that again it has been associated with the Ukrainian war, everything is like being put in the same pot again, that quality journalism reflects the Ukrainian war fairly. But it says here that it doesn't concern erotics and porn magazines. But these are also quality magazines, though only in their own niche, and if they handle the Ukrainian war correctly, why are they out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U462	Thank you, good questioner! This particular point is also based on the current definition of the law. If you think it should be changed and expanded, you will certainly be able to start this debate. I do not think that this is a good time for this subject to be debated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U463	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U464	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, You asked for support for this draft, which reduces the [effective] VAT on press publications. But we discussed this morning at the request of Minister Sut, I understand that the government was planning Omniva IPO, and he asked for support. I do not know whether it was his personal initiative or government initiative, but with this proposal he came to the Fatherland Group and asked us to support it. You referred to quality several times in the context of this draft. I'd like to see where you got to at the government hearing. How much should the quality of the Estonian press rise with a 4% reduction in VAT, and where will it then rise? Or how did the government judge it? How do you see this quality and how do you assess whether this increase in quality in this context has been in line with the government's expectations in the case of tax cuts? When's this analysis coming up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U465	Thank you. I sensed a certain irony here, but all right. No, we didn't discuss how to measure it or exactly how to evaluate this quality in the government. It's appreciated by readers. Readers in general have appreciated the credibility of the Estonian press very highly. And once again, as I said before, in times of crisis, it is crucial that confidence in the press, who must offer very professional answers and reactions in the information war, is high. How can it be increased further? There are certainly many ways, but I do not think it is appropriate for a member of the government to go from a parliamentary chair in any way, I do not know, to try to write something to the press or to give guidelines in this respect. We have a high level of good, professional free journalism who will certainly do it perfectly himself. That's their job, and that's what they do very well on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U466	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U467	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I see you have no idea what quality journalism is on which you want to reduce the VAT rate. Let me remind you that for a year and a half I've been talking about coronal vaccines causing human health problems. What did I get? I was called a corona abandite, a lameman after that. Only recently was the creation of a vaccine damage fund here. Yesterday, Channel 2 showed us how people suffer from it. It doesn't make any sense for me to write an article on any of the mainstream media channels. They're rejecting everything. Before you start talking about quality journalism here, I say: give up this Ukrainian war narrative and be really careful. Tell me, on the basis of what I said, can we talk about having quality journalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U468	Can we talk? Well, you were just talking. I guess so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U469	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U470	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Well, linking it to the Ukrainian war is also inappropriate in my opinion, although I say that it is actually important for the county leaves to reduce this VAT, and perhaps it should have been done even earlier. But now I'm really asking about its quality. Fifteen years ago, we had a bronze night. Wasn't there an information war after that? And soon after that, we followed the economic crisis, which was very difficult for the press. Did it not occur to the Reform Party, which then led the government, that it could reduce VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U471	Thank you. Well, this proposal is in front of you now, and I am therefore asking you to support it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U472	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U473	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. As a former journalist, head of the press, I regret to admit that quality journalism is insolently scarce. And I was deeply offended when I read today that the court has fined one of the few Estonian high-quality journalists Tarmo Vahter for disclosing that Swedbank's leaders are under criminal investigation. Among them are Ulla Preeden, who in the meantime was put in charge of a mega - paid youth service. My question to you is this, although we have a separation of powers: do you approve that one of Estonia's few top journalists will be punished for publishing information of public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U474	Minister, may I have your attention for a moment, there may be another problem with the microphone. Procedural question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U475	Thank you. I just have a request. The previous speaker indicated that Ulla Preeden was in youth service. He has never been there; he has been rector of Tartu [Health Care College] for the last time. So the questioner's probably confusing her with someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U476	Got it. It was in the interest of the verbatim, sometimes they say so. Minister, please, you can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U477	Thank you. But if it has already been pointed out here that the questioner has confused something, then perhaps we need to clarify this question and then, if necessary, we can get to the answer. I certainly do not want to comment separately on this draft, I do not know, any concrete example or case, the background of which I do not know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U478	Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U479	Thank you. I don't know if this is so much a question, but [I note this] so that we can understand the same thing and talk about different things. You were talking about prices. I don't know if you meant the price to the consumer. In fact, the Latvians did not aim to reduce the price to the consumer, but to legalise the sale of their production and, secondly, to support the producer by reducing VAT. That's what they achieved, and that's what they're very proud of. And it actually brought more money to the state budget. So this goal was a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U480	Thank you for that clarification. Indeed, since it is also presented from time to time in the context of the consumer's [step] price or the consumer's price, it is my comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U481	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U482	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, I'm looking at the little answers you're giving here to the ambassadors' questions, so it's not a good day for you today. You have come here with two drafts, this one and the previous one, which contradicts the long-standing ideological drum roll of your party. And frankly, [they] are politically and financially very strangely justified. I understand in the Explanatory Memorandum that this year you will give 1.7 million to the Estonian press, and next year you will give about 4 million. There is no time limit for this draft, as opposed to the advantage granted to farmers, for example. The support of court eunuchs and outdoor lyrics is likely to be beneficial for the government in the long run. But I have this question: is this the most burning problem in the Estonian economy that you are bringing this tax distinction to us today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U483	Thank you. My poor answers are due to the fact that I respect the time spent by Members and we still have a very long debate on the additional budget. I can also, of course, respond further, and we can have this debate for hours. However, this was, above all, the case with the previous draft, and I would like to honour your own time. Is that the most important problem? The fact that there is an information war is, in any case, an important problem. The fact that the press has to deal with this is equally an important problem. It is certainly important in the background that, as you will remember and know, there have been long debates on whether a digital tax could enter into force, which would also balance the overall competitive situation in the press a little and help to improve the state where we are now. In fact, large corporations that earn income, among other things, from the Estonian market do not essentially leave a cent of tax money here. This would probably have shaped the media landscape much fairer from a competitive point of view. The entry into force and agreement of this tax has, to put it plainly, been postponed to an unknown future. But this has been one of the reasons why, in this time we are in, the pressure on our Estonian press is certainly even greater. It's the second part of this background. If, at some point, agreements can be reached that will bring a digital tax that will be paid by large digital corporations, then there is a reason to come back to this issue as a whole and also to review the decisions that we have now proposed. I would like this to happen earlier, but seeing these last discussions at the table of the European Union, not to mention the broader international plan, I am not much of an optimist that an agreement on this is quickly possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U484	A procedural question before Kalle Grünthal's question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U485	Thank you! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We have now heard a very interesting fact when the honourable minister answered the question of Riigikogu Ambassador Martin Helme as to why these answers are short. The Minister made it very clear that he would answer a short question because today is a long day at the sitting and we all want to get home soon or something of this style. In this context, I believe that we cannot proceed with this draft today because the Minister has so little time and cannot respond for long. But we can't go halfway through these questions. I propose that the first reading of Bill 607 be postponed until the Minister has more time to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U486	Thank you. The Minister's idea, though, was that he did not have little time here, but said that he wanted to make good use of the time of members of the Riigikogu. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] That's what I get. And now, when you say that you could postpone this draft, you yourself are very precise in this Law on Home and Working Procedures and the Law on Home and Working Procedures at first reading does not allow the draft to be postponed, but only to be rejected. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U487	Thank you, Mr President. But we have this situation right now that, good Jüri Ratas...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U488	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U489	Thank you very much. But yes, the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure do not provide for such a situation, because this is an outrageous situation when the minister says that the members of the Riigikogu no longer have time. How does he know what to do with time? We have until 2:00 a.m. on Thursday, so we can respond. In this sense, I do not know, there is now an unregulated issue and now the Honourable Board should come together and discuss that the Minister has taken the wrong position here on the issue of the time of members of the Riigikogu suddenly. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U490	Thank you for coming to my aid. But I don't think it's a good idea to take a break right now. But I give you the floor now, because your question is. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U491	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was talking about this quality journalism, how I've been beaten, taunted and punished for telling the truth for no reason, and how I didn't show up with my articles. And I asked you if we could talk about it. You thought for a long time, and then you said, "Yes, we can talk." But let's talk about it for a long time. Please tell me how we treat our Estonian media, who distort the truth, as quality journalism, does not reveal the truth! I'm thinking about the corona problems I've been talking about here for a long time. And now you're bringing out some kind of war narrative that better information will come in the information war. How can you do this if you can't handle problems at home? But tell me, in my example, what is this previous quality journalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U492	Thank you. In your example, I am sure that you have had the opportunity to continue to express your views in a wide range of media publications. [[Kalle Grünthal says something about the hall.]] I have noticed that you are also a very active social media user. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How and on the basis of which one or another particular press publication decides to publish different stories, I certainly do not consider it appropriate to comment. I also don't think it would be appropriate for me to get involved in this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U493	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U494	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good finance minister, good Keit! I have this question, not political. It's not political! I've always understood...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U495	But you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U496	Yeah. I have understood that Estonia has VAT rates of 20%, 9% and 0% according to the Tax Act, or rather the VAT Act. Now we're putting 5% in the press. To date, both textbooks and medicines are subject to 9% VAT. Why 5% and why not 9%, as is this [second rate]? Or we could also lower our textbooks, workbooks, and medications to 5%. We are now creating a completely new rate of 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U497	Thank you. 9% currently applies to press publications. And if there was one reference to history here earlier, I must say that in 2008, when it was proposed to raise the value added tax on press publications to 18%, the government at that time was very fundamentally opposed to us going to raise the level of taxation on the press in this form. There are also 5% in Latvia and Lithuania. And this 0% really is a very new change that came recently. I may be wrong in weeks, but this is a very fresh proposal from the European Commission. Since Latvian and Lithuanian examples have been going through here several times today, 5% is indeed proposed that in this case the level is the same in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. I think one or two European Union countries have only used the zero rate, which is generally not widely used. Rather, it has been used at a reduced rate of 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U498	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U499	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Well, actually, I, too, must mark that your answers, at least in the first half or at the beginning of the debate, have been overwhelmingly poor. And that certainly doesn't honor you. But it looks like you're still ready to fix yourself, and the last few questions have come up with a pretty long answer. But my question will come up with a little bit of a colleague for the Hard question to go on. Doesn't this information war mean we have a war so big it's supposed to bring this percentage to quite zero? And secondly, the application does not foresee a deadline, i.e. it is unlimited. Does the government, then, foresee that this Ukrainian war and the information war will continue indefinitely? And how do you try to apply these principles to this quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U500	Thank you. I would very much like to say that we can see that this war will end quickly, but we cannot give that answer. And the information attacks, the information war, have actually been a weapon that Russia has used even before the attacks in Ukraine started again in full. There is no reason to predict that it will end in the near future. Why exactly 5%, not some other rate, I answered the Kalvi Tough question. At the moment, our proposal is yes to bring this rate from 9% to 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U501	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U502	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the current situation, where prices in different sectors have risen to higher levels, the public would rather expect the government to help alleviate this price rally, even in the form of a general reduction in VAT. But you come to this hall by lowering the rate of VAT on media publications. I would like to know how such a reduction in the VAT rate for press publications will help people who are unable to pay for their home, their heating and, for example, their food as a result of these great price increases. How does that help these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U503	Thank you. There are still a number of problems that this bill will not solve in any way and will not try to solve. This draft is specifically aimed at press publications that are at the forefront and are fighting in the current circumstances and in the information war. The purpose of this draft is not to solve the problems you referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U504	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U505	Thank you. Well, I recognized a reform party in you for a moment. Your eyes were shining when you started talking about the digital tax and the fact that this tax was coming and that it could be raised. But now for this information war. Well, I'll find out, too, as Mr Kalvi Tõng said, that we didn't have that 5% tax corridor before. And Kert Kingo pointed out that real people have real problems actually managing and that they would be solved if we reduced VAT in other areas. But that's not what you're doing here. Here's the question. What we are talking about here is independent journalism, if you give Estonian publications about the ERR I am not talking about, it is financed from the state budget, but for the Postimees Group and the Express Group, millions of dollars, and we can see that this money is not going to be wasted. Both the Express Group and the Postimees Group will sing hosianna to today's Reform Party government. The government, led by the war princess of the Reform Party, does nothing wrong; this money goes to God well [for use]. But do you know that the entire extra budget is made on a loan and that this loan is repaid by our children, grandchildren and grandchildren? Is it fair that they pay for your praise?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U506	Thank you. If you had given us the reserves to use, we wouldn't be in a situation where we should be borrowing today. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U507	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U508	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I would also ask about the issue raised by Mr Hard. I actually had the understanding that the VAT Directive somehow regulates the number of preferential rates used. That it is not quite the case that any percentage can be used for an infinite number of products or services. In addition to having a 9% discount rate, could we make these preferential rates with different percentages more? Is this a purely national decision and there is no need for any coordination, for notification of changes? I think it's news for a lot of people. We did not understand in any way that this 9% discount rate has ever been chosen and we must stick to it. Maybe you can explain how it really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U509	Yeah, we're gonna have to report a 5% rate, but we have a chance and a right to use a 5% rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U510	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U511	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I listened to you, and at first I thought it was interesting who you'd be so unselfish about this information war. Later I realized you mean Russia. However, what the Russians are writing, speaking or singing, they can do it until they are weak, and there is no way to get to the people of Estonia. The only channel that can fight it should be in Russian. And I wonder if the Russian Delfi or the Russian Postman would be the publications that could really lower VAT to 5%. Why is he still extending to all of our so-called liberal Lügenpresses? Why would this Estonian Delfi win, or why should Postimees Group's junk journalism win?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U512	Thank you. That's your assessment. It is no longer the case that information attacks take place or an information war takes place only in Russian-speaking media or only reaches the Russian-speaking media. It has long been considerably wider and will certainly also affect the Estonian-language media and spread very quickly through social media. There are, and there are further examples that English - language material is also presented to the mind, which, when checked briefly, appears to be a pure information operation, the dissemination of false information. And it needs to be responded to. So I don't think it's right that we somehow use the language to try to approach here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U513	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U514	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is a pleasure that today we can talk about tax cuts, because I think all kinds of tax cuts are good, also for farmers. I hope that you will continue along the same lines, and soon we will be able to hear about the reduction in VAT on fuel, the reduction in VAT on food, etc. in this Chamber. But my question is how long the government will predict the duration of this information war. Farmers were given this excise duty cut until the end of the year. How long do you expect this information war to last? Are we going to stick to this on a constant basis, or is there some sort of moment when the value added tax of the press is going to rise back to 9%?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U515	Thank you. There is no time limit here, as you can see from the bill. One earlier question I answered was that, in fact, we really need to take into account the developments that are taking place in the international tax environment. The digital tax already referred to would concern multinational corporations, both Facebook, Google and Amazon, which have certainly had a very significant impact on the competitive situation in our press market today, but who are currently not affected by any tax in Estonia. If this situation changes and if these international rules can finally be agreed, then there is certainly reason to come back to this issue. However, it has not been possible to set a specific deadline in this draft at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U516	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U517	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Now I'm trying to figure out what kind of problem we're going to solve with this bill. If we reduce the VAT rate to the whole press, the hard-box pages will cost somewhat less, which is very nice. But we are probably trying to solve this problem so that a person in Russian or another language can receive more adequate information. My question is, if that is the case, I am trying to understand, my question is that maybe we could put more ETV+, for example, and make ETV+ better so that those people who are in another language can have more adequate information. In Võrumaa Jaanimäe village, the same number of pages is purchased, whether VAT is 9% or 5%. Sorry I thought so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U518	Thank you. It is not linked to a separate language space and it is not aimed solely at the Russian-speaking media. Indeed, as I said, the information war, the information attacks, the information operations are not just about the Russian information room for a long time now. There is just as much need to maintain quality in Estonian-language journalism. And as a result of this bill, the prices of newspapers are not automatically decreasing, as the questioner referred to here. How press publications use this influence to strengthen the press is their choice. We do not directly impose any prices by law. To the extent of this effect, can we direct [the money] directly to some Russian or other press publications? I think it is complicated and would put press publications in a very strange position, because in this case they should essentially receive support either from Parliament or from the government. I think that the independence of the media is such an important issue and such an important principle that it would not be just reasonable or good to intervene through separate targeted subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U519	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U520	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Given that many businesses have closed down in a two-year pandemic and very many people have lost their jobs, I am seriously surprised that, instead of thinking about how you can help people cope and manage, you are thinking about how to support the press, or how to buy a sense that suits you from the press. I want to ask you whether you really believe that people prefer to read the newspaper, that it is a priority activity for them, rather than thinking about how you can heat the room and how you can put food on the table or clothes on. Do you really think it is the most important thing that this page should be, or that the press must be, whether it is on the web or on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U521	The fact that people trust the Estonian press and that we have a free press, also internationally valued, is certainly important. And this is particularly important at a time when we are experiencing a security crisis. Yeah, I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U522	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U523	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Indeed, in Estonia there is a free press, he is free of quality and ethics. You said that there would be no increase in quality, there would be no reduction in prices. Then why do you need it? Who does it actually serve? I understand that when we are talking about niche journalism, such as Rainbow or Creativity, it would really be reasonable to reduce VAT on them. When we talk about Lügenpresse, like Delfi and Postimees, quality comes from hiring good journalists. How does it affect hiring good journalists if nothing changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U524	Thank you. Yes, this is also one of those possible outputs for this draft. This additional money, which can be used in press publications in support of this draft, will be used to pay the salaries of journalists, also to hire [new] journalists. Yeah, it's one of the possible solutions. I did not say that there will be no increase in quality, nor will there be a reduction in prices. I said that this bill cannot provide for such things. The decisions on how to use these instruments can and must be made by the press itself, we cannot prescribe it to them. That's what I said. There may be one or the other, hopefully both, but a decision on this can still be made in the press paper itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U525	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. [[They say something in the hall.]] The Commission is somewhere, too, isn't it? There you go, Riina Sikkut. (There is more to be said.) You wanna come? Please, Riina Sikkut by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U526	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was prepared by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its discussion yesterday, 3 May and took place in an extraordinary session. The discussion was attended by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, the Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Erle Kõomets, the Chief Specialist of the same department, Aet Külasalu, and the Head of the Public Finance Department of the Fiscal Policy Department, Kadri Klaos. The Commission decided by consensus to appoint Ms Riina Sikkut as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be terminated. For the vote, the question was whether the deadline for amendments should be 3 p.m. on 11 May. Five members of the Commission were in favour: Andrei Korobeinik, Dmitri Dmitriev, Ivi Eenmaa, Riina Sikkut and Aivar Sõerd, three people opposed: Aivar Kokk, Rene Kokk, Urmas Reitelmann. There were no abstentions. During the preparatory debate on the first reading of the bill, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus gave an overview of this particular draft, as is now the case for the Chamber. What did we ask? First of all, Aivar Kokk stated that the reduction in VAT will have an impact on the price, but we also have an expensive delivery at home. How can we ensure that at the same time there is no appreciation for home delivery, so that there is no change for people? Has a reduction in home delivery prices been considered so that the consumer can benefit more from the change? The Minister of Finance noted that the bill does not concern home delivery fees, has not been discussed and does not write anything to the media or any other party about pricing. The way media publications react, whether the availability of free articles without protection by means of a tax wall is increasing, or whether work is being strengthened, is a choice for everyone. Riina Sikkut asked that since the aim is to cope better with the information war and to strengthen media publications, whether media publications have also been discussed that strategic communication on topics important for Estonia through personal stories or to recognise false information could be accessible to everyone, not behind the tax wall. Has this debate taken place with the editors-in-chiefs or editors-in-chiefs? The minister said it wasn't. Rene Kokk asked whether the VAT amendment was intended to be introduced without a time limit. The minister replied that yes, indeed for an indefinite period. The amendment is not related to any date, so that it should end or be interrupted or subject to review. That concludes the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We thanked the Minister and look forward to the further procedure of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U527	Thank you. Looks like you don't have any questions. Thank you! Now we can go to the negotiations. Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U528	Thank you, Mr President. There is no minister, but there is also a minister for him: honourable Minister and colleagues! The government and the minister came before us with this amendment to the VAT law in order to reduce VAT on press publications from 9% to 5%. The Fatherland Group has not discussed this, but I dare say that we support this idea and this proposal. Perhaps, however, it would be worth discussing what came out of this Chamber now: in reality, it could be reduced to 0 and it should be discussed what positive effects this could have if we did not lower it to 5%, but to 0%. It was not possible to understand the reasons why the 5% were kept instead of the zero. However, I do have one request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs before we reach second reading. This [concerns] the fact that, as the Minister of Finance came here with this proposal, Andres Sutt, the second minister of the government, as I said in the question [presenting], came this morning to the Isamaa Group and he had the request to discuss the issue of Eesti Posti or Omniva IPO. This does not relate directly to this draft, but rather to a rather substantial home delivery, to which the Commission's rapporteur referred. The minister said it was not discussed. But I think it would be very appropriate to discuss this issue, because when Omniva IPO is made, there are two areas of Omniva. One is the parcel business, which has no market failures or any problems. It does not make any sense why the state, through one company, would have to deal with the pressing economy. And the other is a universal postal service, which, as we know, is paid for a lot. Home delivery is not a universal postal service, but it is paid and paid in such a way that it is subsidised through a contract. The universal postal service comes by law, but unfortunately the Minister did not know how to solve this issue if this IPO came. We are talking here that perhaps, as a result of this amendment to the law, more money will remain in the Estonian press to improve the quality of the press. But in reality, if the IPO issue is precisely undisputed and unsolved, it may not be the case. On the contrary, it may be that we are giving a little more resources as a illusion, but in fact, if the Estonian Post is on the stock market, then the state, of course, will not have such influence and the possibility of influencing it, it is absolutely possible to subside. But it is, as I said, that it has nothing to do with the legislator, but it is already a matter of so-called government and of the level of agreements, which certainly should not be that way. Perhaps the most disturbing thing about this draft, however, is what was the justification for my first question. I absolutely do not like it when we justify any changes to the need to take into account European regulations, saying that other countries do. I think we have so much sense that if we want to do something, we can do it. And so is the question. There is no need to link it to Russia or anything else. If we have the desire and will to have more resources in the Estonian press, we will do so and lower VAT from 9% to 5% or 0%. There is no need to refer to the Russian attack in Ukraine, although they may have a connection. The next [serial] point is trying to tell us that the additional budget is only and only related to military activities and we are dealing with the most important issues, then, as we have seen during the procedure on this draft, it is not actually the case. There was an information war, there is, and even though I don't want to say it, I'm afraid it will. And another reference, although it is not directly related, in previous cases we have made time-limited decisions in response to the crisis. And also Minister Pentus-Rosimannus has consistently referred to how he inherited and planned tax increases by the Ratas government and Martin Helme... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U529	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U530	...must be postponed. Well, it's just disgusting to listen to. But that is the point: when we approach crises by making time-bound [decisions], here we are saying that this measure is intended to resolve the crisis, but in reality there is no time-limit there. Consequently, it is not a resolution measure. And like I said, if we want to, we're right. And it doesn't matter whether Latvia, Lithuania have 9%, 5% or any other percentage. We are based on what makes sense, whether it makes sense to lower this rate, leave it at 9%, lower it to 5% or zero. And the questions concerning the IPO I have a request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, since I am not there myself, to discuss the question of how it will actually affect the resources that remain in the press in full. The entry that Aivar Kokk, a good fellow group member, referred to both in the Commission and this morning in the group, is as important a subject as the subject of VAT reduction. There's no point in doing this so-called one in one pocket and taking away the other. Then there's really no solution. But as I said, the Fatherland intends to support this proposal. It is logical that the more money remains a substantive activity in the press, the better. If it still remains there for substantial activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U531	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Martin Helme, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U532	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, with this bill, it's a clean bill of corruption. Well, we're surprised the Reform Party is in the government, and that's how it works! There is no point in talking here about the information war; there is no point in talking here about how we raise the quality of the Estonian press. As a result of this specific draft, two people will be richer, Hans H.Luik and Margus Linnamäe. The explanatory memorandum even says how many million. It's no wonder why it's done. If you gave 2 million to private media this year and 4 million to private media next year, which is still there, the election is coming up and one of us doesn't need a good word. Free advertising is much better than paid advertising. There is no shame, we have seen for months how the so-called independent and so-called high-quality and so-called impartial and so-called free media praises in a modest manner with a sense of discretion! The war princess Kaja and her brave fellow fighters, who are trying to knock over our budget, restrict our freedom of speech and all other things, because there is war in Europe. At the same time, this superbly independent and excellently free and excellently impartial media every day narrates the main opposition party, its members, refuses to publish the articles of their members, and builds up some narrative about what terrible Kremlin trolls and agents are Estonian nationalists. I guess it's the same power with taxpayers' money. How does this help Estonian people who have no money to buy food at the end of the month? How does it help people in Estonia who have no money to buy fuel in their car to go to work or take their children to school? How does this tax change, which creates a deficit in the budget, help people in Estonia who have no money to buy new clothes? We have had a Reform Party that has been saying for decades that tax reductions must not be made and consumption taxes must not be lowered and tax distinctions must not be made, but now they are coming with a new tax distinction, making a new tax corridor specifically for two media groups, giving them millions specifically. Basically, dear friends, you buy yourself a media coverage with taxpayers' money, and that taxpayer's money is in debt. All the extra budget is a minus that's going to be owed. What a great country we just have! What a wonderful thing! I hope you're proud of it, too, Jürgen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U533	Mr. Ligi, would you like a reclining or a procedure? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Stop! Easy, easy, easy! Yes, both procedural and rejoinder is possible, as this is a round of negotiations now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U534	I would like to ask you procedurally about you and your colleague who left the remote, Martin Helme. You've both used the word "speaker" many times today? I think it is such a fundamental shift when we [use it], and the Group of Martin Helme loves it at all. Do we agree that we will take this foreign word, which in general means a little different thing, or will we agree to stick to the Estonian term? What do you think of that? I think it's a question of culture in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U535	If we are to have the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act is about the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and the President of the sitting. These are the terms that we can find in the Rules of Procedure. The speaker and deputy speaker have rather been such a popular expression, an international word loan. So that's why... But we're not gonna ban the use of speech here, and we're not gonna limit it. [[Something's been said in the hall.]] Mr. Ligi! You had a question, and I'm trying to answer. I guess it's up to him to use everyone's word. Well, we've heard something different here, but as I said, the Rules of Procedure use two terms. The Rules of Procedure refer to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and the President of the sitting. We can continue to rely on them. Mr. Grünthal, are we going to debate this now? I very much hope that we can move forward with the substantive work and not argue about whether there is a deputy speaker, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu or the chair of the sitting. I don't think this is a substantive debate right now. Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U536	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Question...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U537	Not elected yet, but maybe in a year, if you support me, I'll get elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U538	Oh, right! I'm so sorry, yeah. I would like to remind my good colleague Jürgen Ligi what the knowledgeable books say: the President of the Riigikogu (unofficially also the Speaker) has been elected from among the members of the Estonian Riigikogu. So Jürgen wouldn't mind using a perfectly legitimate word here. And I do not think that his comment is absolutely relevant in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U539	[[Sighs. There's a lot of talk going on in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U540	However, I think that we could agree on an Estonian term and not discuss it with each other. It is not about partyism or any rivalry, but about the fact that we probably wouldn't take the name of a professional with a different function in a different context, and also the name of a professional with a different function, as a raw word. This is neither party nor personal rivalry. I suggest we stick to that. In this case, the Estonian language sounds good and we should not be arguing with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U541	I suggest we move on to the agenda. Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U542	Dear Vice-Chairman, I wasn't exactly watching, but did I get it right that you gave us an invitation to go and take a shot?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U543	No. I said the old folks said that. They used to say that, but I certainly didn't invite you up for a shot. Let's move on to the agenda. Negotiations we have exhausted, the commission proposal is in draft 607... Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U544	I would like to have the honourable deputy speaker make his speech, and then I would really like to take the floor myself before the next point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U545	Before the next point? Oh, you went a little fast. Got it. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 607. And since I do not see any other proposals, the first reading of draft 607 has been completed and I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3 p.m. on 11 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U546	So, let's move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft law 608 on the additional budget of the State initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2022. But before I invite the Minister of Finance to this chair, Helle-Moonika Helmel is a procedural question, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U547	Dear Deputy Speaker! So that we can actually go on with the substantive work, because we have an extraordinary sitting or an additional sitting today, so that I know that we have a quorum for the substantive work, I would ask you, as the vice-chairman of the Conservative People's Party Group, to take control of the presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U548	Thank you for this invitation, but the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures do not provide for this possibility. It is possible to request a verification of presence before the vote. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, it was once, but those days are over. The wise Riigikogu has made a small change in its home and working procedures, and it can no longer be required at any time during the so-called additional session. (There is more to be said.) Well, it's worth knowing how the law is being amended. Please take the Rules of Procedure and read them, you'll find out. Now, I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Mr. Grünthal, you have a procedural question. I hope not on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U549	No, I'm not gonna talk about the Speaker this time. The question is that you referred to the fact that, in principle, as regards the outcome of the vote, the [ Quorum] must be together in an additional sitting. I am now looking at the wording of § 76 as follows: "The Riigikogu will have a quorum at an additional session of the Riigikogu and at an extraordinary session if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present. "And the next paragraph, § 77, also provides for the verification of the presence of members of the Riigikogu. Since the previous rule was about quorum, the Riigikogu is determined by § 77 (1) and is done by checking the presence of members. The verification of this presence has not been said to be done only before the vote. It's a question of judgment. So, let's say, it also includes whether the members of the Riigikogu are in the Chamber so that they can make decisions based on the information that is being discussed here. Decision-making not only relates to voting, but also to the number of people in this Chamber, which requires the presence of at least 51 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U550	Mr. Grünthal, reading the law will certainly make the law easier to understand. Paragraph 77 (3) must also be read, which states when there is an additional presence check. Mr Helme, when he opened the supplementary sitting, he pointed out, by the way, when it would be possible to require verification of presence. That's exactly what he said when there's a vote. For example, if you had requested the rejection of the previous draft, a verification of presence could have been requested before such a vote. Mr Grünthal, I hope we are not going to hold a legal debate here. It really is, please understand. Now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U551	Thank you. As you referred to the third paragraph here, during the additional sitting of the Riigikogu the presence will also be checked before the other vote. Even before! So let's say, if a member of the Riigikogu requires verification of the presence, it would still assume that control can be carried out in principle even before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U552	Mr. Grünthal! So, please, let's read the law quickly together. Paragraph 77 (1) states that presence is controlled. Paragraph 77 (2) states that attendance shall be verified at the beginning of the sitting. And § 77 (3) says that at other times it is checked when there is a vote. Period. Thank you! Does Mr. Ernitsa have the wrong button, or has your finger accidentally gone to the question? It's also okay if you're already registering as a question. Now, I'm asking for a speech chair with Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U553	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! An additional budget for 2022 is needed for one reason. Estonia, which has regained independence, is currently facing the most serious security crisis. 70 days ago, Russia launched a new full-scale military assault on Ukraine. We know that there is no immediate military threat to Estonia at the moment, but we also know that Europe is facing an insane opponent. We must do everything necessary to strengthen our security, our national security. In these difficult times, we need to keep focus and be able to put aside the additional budget focused on strengthening immediate security of temptation to a significant extent. The more confident and, more specifically, we can keep our focus on security right now, the sooner we get out of the current situation. I have to say that I understand those who are seeing an opportunity in the supplementary budget that is now coming before you to try to solve all the problems and concerns that are to be resolved. But no matter what you want, the extra budget for wartime is not the right time or the right place to do so. We will certainly come back to finding a solution to other concerns in early autumn by making a country's budget strategy, when, hopefully, the misfire of war will be slightly dissipated and the view of the future will also be more precise. We have submitted an additional draft budget to Parliament by the government, which we are asking for the approval of the financing decisions for the three important plans. All three plans are linked to the inevitable and time-critical need to level out the effects of the war against Ukraine in Estonia. These three plans are: firstly, a comprehensive security and resilience plan; secondly, steps to strengthen energy security; and thirdly, decisions relating to war refugees hiding in Estonia from Putin's killing machine. I have already heard these questions, too, that what this extra budget still gives our people. This gives the most important: stronger security. Developments unfolding in Europe show very painfully that if we did not have it, we would actually have nothing. On Monday, when the additional budget was transferred, we also heard the skills that, well, if Estonia is now finally taking a proper loan. When it comes to borrowing, you have to put things on your head first. Our goal has never been, nor is lending in itself now. This objective is to strengthen national security and we will use every opportunity to do so. We'll use the loan if we have to. Of course, it would be better if we did not have such a situation now, or if we had reserves set aside in good times now, if we did not have to deal with the effects of the war in the past, but we do not have this opportunity now. We have not been left with a surplus budget, but with a budget that has already been put down in the years before the health crisis, in the years of economic growth. In the last year, 2021, despite the crisis in COVID, we reduced our government deficit by more than half. This year, Putin's war is doing its job, and getting the country's finances back in order may slow down. But this goal and direction are still ongoing. Without the war against Ukraine started by Putin, Estonia's time-critical need to invest 1.6 billion euros less in its security this year. This would mean a budget impact of 1.6 billion less. But there is a war. And unlike the comfort shortage of good times, there is now a time-critical need to provide funding for our security. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The additional budget before you is divided into three relatively equal parts: 255.6 million euros to increase Estonia's broad-based security and resistance, 257.3 million euros to strengthen energy security and 242.7 million euros to protect people from war. All three of them in more depth. First, wide-ranging security. As has been said, we use every opportunity to strengthen Estonia's security. Collective protection plays a key role in ensuring our security directly, which means that no country needs to have all the capabilities on its own, but protection is guaranteed collectively, with its allies. Protection of Estonia is part of NATO's plans, and serious efforts are still taking place every day to strengthen NATO's collective defence. In the first months of the year, even before the new aggression began in Ukraine, collective protection is supported by the government's principled approval of the plan to contribute more than 800 million euros to strengthening Estonia's broad-based national defence over the next few years. This is a plan of historical scale. The military defence reinforcement package, to which I referred, was put together by military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces and the armaments to be acquired on this basis must bring about an increase in Estonia's military capabilities as soon as possible. How? Some examples. Estonia buys firing devices and missiles to strengthen short-range anti-aircraft, including Stingers. In order to strengthen anti-tank control, we will obtain Javeline and EuroSpike firing devices. But let's build up our supplies. Together with the Baltic States, we'll get a multiple rocket launcher system. The infrastructure related to the adoption of the allies will also be improved in order to be able to host the units of the division's allies in Estonia. Additional support will also go to the Defence League in the coming years, whose contribution to land protection will rise to 20,000 defenders. The first part of all of this will enter the supplementary budget. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior invests millions of euros in comprehensive national defence. We have already based our decisions on the conclusions on what is happening in Ukraine. If, in the past, the protection of the population has not found excessive political support, we are now investing EUR 4 million, for example, for the installation of risk communication systems and aerial drones. A threat reporting system will be established in 16 major cities. For more than EUR 3 million, we will improve our evacuation reserves, which means replenishing supplies from decks to generators, tent bearings and beds. A little over EUR 11 million will be directed to strengthen controls at the eastern border. This concerns both the strengthening of patrols and, for example, further possible cooperation with the Defence League. An important part of broad-based security is related to people's livelihoods. The difficult year is most immediate for families with low incomes. To provide them with an additional safety net, we raise the income support limit by 33%, by 50 euros per month. The monthly income support will rise to EUR 200 for adults and EUR 240 for children. Out of the additional budget, this totals EUR 28 million. Now for energy security. In recent years, we have all seen again how Russia will not hesitate for a moment to use the energy carriers under its control as a political weapon. To remove this weapon, we need to get rid of Russian energy sources completely. The additional budget before you will provide the means to fully untie Estonia from Russian gas. For up to 170 million euros, the gas supply in Estonia is formed, for which the government has made a condition that it must not be formed from Russian gas. Up to EUR 30 million will contribute to the creation of LNG capacity. Investing in energy saving, investing in small solutions is no less important. We are investing up to €19 million in investments in energy savings and small renewable energy solutions. The current crisis, including the period of high energy prices, has certainly reminded everyone again why energy savings and unused energy are the cheapest. Instead of subsidising prices, the long-term solution is specifically linked to investment and the additional budget contributes to it. We will also channel an additional EUR 8 million into the network of small producers, in particular households. This, too, has been a bottleneck that has been a brake, so we are also trying to do this, and we want to ease it with an extra budget. Third, about refugees seeking refuge from war. The needs of Ukrainian war refugees include unavoidable costs of receiving them, such as primary accommodation or also meal expenses, essential medical care, as well as support for local authorities in providing initial assistance to refugees. Another very important part of this is certainly linked to strengthening our Estonian education system. We have promised Ukraine that we will allow their children to continue education at all stages of education during their stay in Estonia. To this end, we will strengthen the Estonian education system with 77 million euros, including Estonian language education in both early childhood education and general education. By the time of the debate on the additional budget today, more than 35,000 refugees have arrived and remained in Estonia. About 4400 of them are currently needed by the state. A very large part of the war refugees have found their own accommodation on their own hands and with the support of the local Ukrainian community without the need for special help from the state. The kindness and willingness of the people of Estonia, as well as our employers and civil society, have been a great support, which has certainly made it easier to cope with all the people of Ukraine fleeing this cruelty in Estonia. So with the additional budget, we will have to plan to cover the primary needs of the refugees and the country's international protection. Honourable Parliament! Time is extraordinary, and it requires exceptional solutions from us, which the extra budget by its very nature is. We need to make the necessary decisions to strengthen our security so that we do not regret their failure at any later moment. I am very grateful to Parliament for your willingness to discuss the additional budget at a faster pace than usual. I hope for a constructive debate and will be happy to answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U554	And there are. Peter Ernits is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U555	Good manager! Good minister! The heart gets warm when I read that you have foreseen EUR 100,000 for vaccination against rabies in pet animals. This means that, given that vaccination costs are around EUR 30, that is to say 3300 cats and dogs. However, last year, 153 dogs were rabies and 146 cats in Ukraine. And there's 8 million pets in total. And now, when they come here with the refugees, EUR 100000 is earmarked for this. I'm asking you, where did you get these calculations? And either it's true that [it's] 3300 dogs or cats are meant for, or (The President calls the bell: "Time!") Is it okay to buy cat litter and chips? Veterinarians have said that the people of Ukraine have more concerns about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U556	You can't buy that cat litter and chips, as you're referring to. And these numbers are derived from the trend of the first few weeks. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has assessed this according to the [how many] refugees arriving in Estonia have had their pets with them. That's where the number was derived. It's been an estimate from the Ministry of Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U557	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U558	Thank you. Well, I listened to this weeping song that the previous government didn't leave you reserves, and that's why we have to spend the minus right now, but nevertheless you have very bravely reduced the minus left by the previous government by half. Your talk about reducing this minus is just bullshit, because that minus was never as big as you advertised it here. But let it be. By the way, I'm just helping you a little bit as Minister of Finance: the use of reserves is also a deficit, a budget deficit. But you are always talking about the national security budget and the extra budget for wartime and the fact that it is the budget for security and the consequences of war. You know, I've been picking up these numbers here a little bit, and a little bit even offered to you here today on some other bill. But now tell us very nicely: how much money has been earmarked for defence in a particular budget and how much for internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U559	Thank you. As for the minus you are referring to and saying that it was never that big, these numbers are taken from the budget you submitted yourself. If there were wrong numbers in it, it's a shame, of course, but that's where they came from. The use of reserves is, of course, a deficit, but the reference was to whether it would be necessary to take out a loan or why we are taking out a loan. If there were reserves that would help through difficult times, it would certainly be possible to increase the loan burden less. That was the reference. Now, how much is in this bill... You must have meant military protection. That's what the question was? In January of this year, we decided on an additional package, which is meant directly, Mr Helme, security... (There is something else to say about the hall.) [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U560	Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U561	...strengthening. I've opened it here before, but I can do it again. These new capabilities, which as a result are in procurement or are already arriving, include sea mines, anti-ship missiles, one-off midland anti-tank missiles, new generation anti-tank grenade launchers. Important capacity developments for the next four years are the increase in ammunition stockpiles, as has been said, the multiple rocket launcher system, the armoring of the 2nd infantry brigade and so on. Everything that can be obtained this year will reach the supplementary budget. If we previously had a level of defence expenditure of over 700 million euros this year, it will reach over 720 million this year. In the additional budget, as the Committee on Monetary Affairs has dealt with this separately, there are 8 million additional funds to obtain arms or ammunition directly and additional additional investments are needed to increase the presence of our allies in Estonia. That's $7 million. And, of course, I know what the background to this question is: why is there no more money in the supplementary budget, why is there so little money? The background is that, as has been said, of the 300-million-dollar package that was decided on, plus the 500-million-pound package that was later added to it, it is possible to add to the additional budget the costs for which the goods actually procured will reach Estonia this year. To date, procurement has taken place and contracts have been covered, essentially, throughout January. But, as you know, defence procurement is one where arrival does not take a few months. However, all that could be added this year has been included in the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U562	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U563	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I am just reading about the Ministry of Defence's administration in the explanatory memorandum and I can see that EUR 7.45 million will be channelled to strengthen military defence capabilities. Okay, we can also talk about the budgets of the previous government, but let's just talk about what you have here. In any case, in terms of proportion, it was a great shock to me when I saw that the medical costs of war refugees were 20 million. It doesn't make sense, but it doesn't make sense. You're always talking patheticly about the wartime budget. It doesn't add up. If we allocate 20 million to normal operations, which are otherwise extraordinary, but medical examination, and which was there, and for military purposes 7,45, that proportion is out of place. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U564	Thank you. In response to the previous questioner, I have explained for a very long time that everything that comes out of an additional EUR 800 million security reinforcement package that has been decided can be added to the additional budget. And if you say something's not right, it's not right. What is lacking is whether the money needed to screen your health needs to be spent and used in the first place. We need to use it for the reason that these people have been in exile from war in Estonia. Without it, we shouldn't have to spend it. But we have to, because there's a war going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U565	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U566	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I was a little puzzled, too, that it was only 7.45 million. Just as you really indicated that you explained at length, but I do not quite understand how this budget works technically. The government has decided [to separate] 300 million more, and so on, a few million more will be spent according to the rumor. Now there's a 7.45 in this extra budget, a million, eight for the allies, a total of 15. You're always suggesting that anything that arrives can be added to the additional budget. Will we still have additional budgets when the funds arrive, or how will these government decisions be reflected in the budget? One particular question, however, concerns media policy, which is in the domain of the Ministry of Culture. What's the money for? And I forgot to thank you earlier. I think that what the government has done by allocating funds for the Russian media has been absolutely right and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U567	Thank you. There were now a number of questions. First of all, how is the budget technically or, let's say, according to the budget law, these expenditures are accounted for. First of all, the defence sector is one of those areas where long-term decisions are taken. This has always been the case, even when your colleague today was the Minister of Defence. And that means that this is reflected in the country's budgetary strategy. The commitments to be made for each specific year can be approved by Parliament, and only by Parliament. And this is confirmed by the annual budget. Now your question is whether there will be additional budgets this year. I'd really like to hope it doesn't. I really said that everything that is known to arrive in Estonia is reflected in the additional budget or budget. This is so that it can still be predicted quite accurately as of now, which still arrives within this year's number. And since we have a budget accounting based on the formation of the Riigikogu hall, it means that if this armaments and ammunition actually arrives, it must be included in the budget within this year's number. That is why this is the case this year. There was another question and it was about media policy. This is probably a question about a particular line, and if you were referring, it might be easier to answer. But it is probably the money, through the Ministry of Culture, intended to strengthen cyber capabilities for the ERR. If this order of magnitude is about 1.7 million, to which you refer, this 1.7 million is an additional reinforcement of cyber resilience directly linked to cyber capabilities, plus additional support. This is an additional support for the ERR. If that's what you asked about, it's an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U568	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U569	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would actually bring the same parallel that was brought to you on the previous draft. This step is sometimes very small, especially in terms of defence expenditure. You've long explained why that is, why it's only 15 million. But one reason is certainly that the government has delayed the introduction of this budget and has not given the competent agencies the possibility to conclude such contracts. At the same time, you will also push the one-off allowance for pensioners to somewhere in November, instead of bringing it to at least a half-year, on 1 July. Why haven't you thought about bringing this security issue to a much earlier time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U570	Thank you. Estonia was one of the countries that made decisions to strengthen its security already in January, before the war in Ukraine got such a kick in, and when Putin's killing machine was launched there in this form. The fact that we made this decision already in January and decided to contribute more than 300 million more to our security meant that we were able to organise procurement so quickly, so quickly to make contracts that would make it possible to strengthen our security much faster than it would have been if we had made that decision three to four months later. In addition, when the January reinforcement package of more than EUR 300 million was decided, we had the possibility and the reason for channelling more than EUR 500 million into broad-based defence by the government, which will add to this 320 million. All of these, as I said, are absolute historical decisions on their scale. With our defence spending over the next few years, we will reach 2.9% of GDP, which shows how seriously the current situation needs to be taken, and this really is an unavoidable expenditure, a necessary expenditure. Once again: thanks to the fact that we made these decisions in January, there is an opportunity for us to strengthen our security much faster than otherwise possible. According to how the real payments of the proceeds, armaments to be procured, investments to be made by these decisions can also be reflected in our proposal in the state budget or in the supplementary budget. So the whole point has been to strengthen our military readiness as soon as possible. This, as I said, has been put together by the Commander of the Defence Forces on the basis of military advice. All that can be added to the 750 million already included in the budget this year has been written in the supplementary budget and in the supplementary budget before you. But once again: this is the fastest possible way and its timetable is largely dictated by large international procurements and when it is actually possible to deliver these supplies and arms to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U571	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U572	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. What goes through here all the time is that all the price increases and all the situation we're in are caused by war. It is not quite right, however, to say this, because, in fact, the increases in energy prices were already very strong throughout Europe before the war started, and they are still due to the CO2 quota policy of the European Union. But I wanted to ask you this. Since we were already on the right track with this excise cut in the case of special diesel, which also helps the oil shale sector, perhaps there has also been a debate on the creation of a new oil shale energy block in the current situation. In my opinion, this is the only right way to guarantee Estonia energy security. It's our own mineral, we have this know-how, the knowledge. There is some kind of money to prepare for the construction of a nuclear power plant, but are there any plans in the budget for the construction of a new energy block in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U573	Thank you. No, it's not. Such plans are not included in the supplementary budget, and we do not currently have such plans. I do agree with the reference you made to earlier increases in energy prices. This really was not happening; we saw an increase in energy prices not after 24 February, but it all started much earlier. This has been part of Russia's preparations to attack Ukraine. It has been a desire, by manipulating energy prices, to strain the situation both between Western countries and within Western countries and to create a situation or situations where the Western countries must, above all, deal with their internal tensions. It is hoped that there will be less opportunity to pay attention to what horrors Russia is committing in Ukraine. This desire is due to the fact that energy prices started to be pushed up much earlier when real conventional warfare started in Ukraine. It has been a weapon that Russia uses without hesitation. And the only way to really get over it is to take those guns away from Russia. This can be done using economic levers. This can be done by replacing Russian energy sources with alternative sources in our energy portfolio, and now I am talking more broadly about the Western energy portfolio. And it's been done. This is something that Estonia has actually warned about for years. We hope that this pace will now be fast enough for us to get rid of it in Europe as quickly as possible. You also referred to the line of nuclear energy or the part of nuclear energy that has been added to the supplementary budget. I consider this, in fact, a very important matter in the supplementary budget, despite the fact that this amount in the supplementary budget is perhaps not as significant as any other line. But I think this is important because if, in the past, the plan was really the final report on the basis of which we could decide whether or not [at all and if so] where, when and which nuclear power plant to build in Estonia, we can only make it in 2024, then now we have brought it much earlier. We have a desire to receive the first interim report during this year, on the basis of which it would already be possible to shape this opinion. This first interim report must contain descriptions of the technologies under development and how the state and the private sector can cooperate or whether there are any opportunities for cooperation, if any, what these opportunities for cooperation are, what will or should be the responsibilities of the state. One very important issue is certainly nuclear waste management: how can it be resolved in Estonia, what laws we need to change to do so, what capabilities to develop. What is the status of the existing workers in the public sector? How can it be developed further and rapidly, in which agencies in particular? It should all be in this very first interim report. And in 2023, or next year, it must be possible to make a fundamental final decision on how we will proceed with the development of nuclear energy in Estonia. This is something with which we simply cannot wait any longer now, which requires an accelerated pace. But I think our professionals can handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U574	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U575	Thank you. I must say, Minister, for the first time in your response, that you have an extremely inadequate idea of world politics and world power. 80% of the world's population live in countries that have not joined the sanctions against Russia. Only European countries, the United States and some allied states of America and Europe have done so. This is an absolute minority of countries. That means learn a little more about what's going on in the world. It's such a small comment. But I want to ask you about defense and defense expenses. Here, too, you do not really have any adequate idea. It costs some 300 million, one infantry support machine, a new, decent, not some old Russian piece of junk, somewhere. What we do for this 7.5 million, which is currently in the supplementary budget for national defence (The President calls the bell: "Time.") you think we can, so it qualitatively increases our defenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U576	Thank you. This reference in the context of sanctions remained somewhat confusing. That in our region, our region, this is an extremely serious situation, I assume that we do not have a difference of opinion on that. And the fact that sanctions must be targeted so that they actually influence, help to limit the financing of the Russian war machine, is a policy for which we have sought international support, we have sought support in the European Union. There can be no other way. Now, with regard to the additional funding provided by the Ministry of Defence in the supplementary budget, in particular, anti-tank defence is what can be obtained with this money this year, which can be added to the additional budget this year as decisions leading to procurement. As regards anti-aircraft control in the Middle East, we have decided in the same way that by July the Ministry of Defence will submit specific procurement plans. And when we discuss and put together the country's budgetary strategy in the autumn, it is also possible to start working on this funding. Specific procurement plans will be completed in July.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U577	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U578	Good manager! Honourable Minister of Finance! First of all, I suggest you believe in the management of the company that is subordinate to you, Eesti Energia. Then you'll find out why the price of electricity went up in the fall. What officials are talking about somewhere else, I think they're mostly bluffing. Eesti Energia knows this very well. But what I'm asking is that I'm looking at investment. As everything is very important, 2.64 million are for the equipment and performance of prisons, including security. Are we afraid that we will have such people from Ukraine that we must strengthen prisons? You need to buy more weapons there for $2.64 million. What's with the expense? And here's another: developing election information systems more efficiently, yet another million. What does this have to do with the current war situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U579	Thank you. This is directly linked to the need to strengthen or improve the capacity of existing systems to withstand cyber attacks. It has something to do with the security situation we're in. It is often the case that certain needs appear in unexpected places. At the moment, we need to make additional investments so that we do not subsequently discover ourselves being unpleasant.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U580	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U581	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have called this extra budget a security and a war budget. But somehow I see here such cost lines that half a million have been allocated to the Office of the President of the Republic and 1.5 million have been allocated to the administration of the State Chancellery to support the activities of the Government of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Why don't you explain to me, as a layman, how such expenses can help the country through difficult times of war or times of [war-related support]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U582	Thank you. I'd love to explain. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is the one who has a comprehensive picture of cyber threats, cyber risks in different areas of government. And as in the past, it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications who makes proposals to mitigate these risks and make the necessary investments. These specific issues that you have asked for are precisely related to the proposal made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to urgently increase cyber security. And since this know-how and ownership of the subject are indeed the best in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which has worked through it quite thoroughly, their proposal is to provide additional funding for this investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U583	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U584	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have an average price increase of 19%. And the government's answer is that we help people in trouble in one month with 4 euros or an apology, 4 euros and 17 cents. I am trying to understand whether you are joking or trying to taunt the people of Estonia. Please explain from this speech chair of the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia how this €4 support will help people in distress at difficult times when prices have risen 19%. How?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U585	Thank you. I don't know what kind of EUR 4 support you're talking about. But there is a proposal in the supplementary budget that is directly linked to coping, which, frankly, I have a great deal of concern about this year. Firstly, there is a very long part of the year ahead and this whole year is very difficult. The fact is that in Ukraine, the Ukrainians pay with their lives for Putin's decision to attack Ukraine, but we are paid for it in the form of higher prices. This certainly puts some families in a very difficult position. In order to alleviate this difficult situation, we raise monthly income support so that the monthly income support limit rises by 33%, from EUR 150 per adult to EUR 200, and in the case of a child, from EUR 180 to EUR 240. Unfortunately, more families are affected this year than at the beginning of the year. It's every month, I think, very important support. I know that the Socialist Group has previously tabled this proposal, too, the same proposal, which was tabled by Minister Signe Riisalo. I think that's a good thing to support. This really helps families who are otherwise having a very difficult time this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U586	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U587	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The previous question [touches] EUR 100000 for the dogs of refugees from Ukraine, to around 3000. In the case of rabies vaccination, it is clear who is preferred, as most of our dogs have not been vaccinated. But now we take income support: 28.57 million, with 10275 Ukrainian households with 22.24 million and 11559 Estonian households with 6.34 million. Where's the inequality, the same as refugees and cats? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U588	Thank you. In the budget, which is the basic budget for this year, we already have money for income support. It is estimated that the income support limit is 150 euros. With the additional budget, we are now proposing to raise this limit, to raise the subsistence allowance per adult to EUR 200. This means that for families who are already recipients of income support, most of the amount or most of the money needed to pay income support is already included in the basic budget. For them, therefore, the additional budget will add the money needed to raise the income support limit from 150 to 200 or, in the case of a child, from 180 to 240. And with regard to the additional families that we could not count on at the end of last year when making the budget, the whole amount will be added. For them, even in the current core budget, this EUR 150 income support limit has not been taken into account. It is likely that this question of yours has something to do with it. It is therefore the case that for those families who could not initially be included in the basic budget, the full amount that we allocate with the additional budget is an additional amount of EUR 50 per month for the rest of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U589	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U590	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! On my first question, I asked how much money there was in the supplementary budget for national defence. So you started to say something about the government's other decisions and previous budgets, but we finally got there that there were 15,5 million around the additional budget for national defence, and that is 1.88% for 800 million. There is no need to say that it is a war budget or a national defence budget. Well, it just isn't! It is a budget for giving money to immigrants or a budget for price increases or a corrupt gift for interest groups in the Reform Party, but it is not a budget for war or national defence. Now we've learned that the defense doesn't have much to do with money, the distortion of the eye maybe a little. But how much does Homeland Security go? We have these numbers ahead of us, too, but I'd like you to open them up. Exactly how much money do we have for internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U591	Thank you. Every line in this budget relates to the need to strengthen our security. And we wouldn't do that extra budget if we didn't have the situation where we are now in the sense of the security crisis. We have the strengthening of energy security, the making of it much faster, the strengthening of our education system, so that it can manage and be able to invest in additional school places that are connected with people hiding from the war in Estonia. Investing in our threat communication, or population protection, is linked to the current situation where we are in terms of security. So this is a budget for strengthening security. When we are talking about internal security, the additional needs of the Ministry of the Interior as a whole are EUR 67 million, some of which relate to the need to manage the current crisis. And now, to be more precise, for example, the reinforcement of border guards takes 5.9 million, the reinforcement of border guards at the eastern border takes 6.4 million, the notification of danger, or these same sirens, takes 5.5 million. The development of crisis preparedness will take 5 million. For example, strengthening large-scale evacuation capabilities...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U592	There's a sound out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U593	Strengthening large-scale evacuation capabilities is 4.1 million. These are some examples of what we also need to invest in our internal security. Preparedness for the protection of the population in crises is 1.9 million, and the shadow capacity of labelling and reporting places to the public takes EUR 400000 as a matter of urgency. And so on. So, as has been said, it is all directly linked to the security situation in which we are in, and to the situation that we need to respond to with this additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U594	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U595	Thank you very much. First of all, I have the question that we have now had a lot of talk about the problem of shelters and the lack of shadowing. And in this connection, the media have already repeatedly announced that the plan is to allocate to the Rescue Board, I am now not quite sure whether 40 million or 80 million at the beginning of one sum, later the second amount has sounded, I am not sure about that. The question is: is the amount that has been spoken of, these tens of millions for shelters, foreseen here, or is it in another budget somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U596	Thank you. If you're talking about shelters, that money isn't in this extra budget. In the additional budget, the four major cities have the labelling of shelters, not shelters, but shelters, and the provision of information to the people where they are most likely to be sheltered. What is the difference between a shelter and a shelter? The shelter is, for example, I don't know, an underground parking lot or a tunnel, a place where I'm not going to go into the details here in the face of any negative scenarios. It is a task by the end of this year to mark these places of refuge belonging to the municipalities and the state in such a way that people know where they are. The next step concerns cooperation with private owners, because they also have places that can be used as shelters. There is no large-scale establishment of shelters in this additional budget. That's something that's still being discussed in the Home Office area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U597	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U598	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Each line of this extra budget is about the government's plan to sow money from airplanes and to make it more comfortable to sow, new planes must also be bought. This is Mr Ernits who pointed out the cost of vaccination for refugee dogs. I was watching the Ministry of Social Affairs, I just took the first paragraph. Here, 1.99, or almost 2 million, is intended for psychological support. It's all very nice. It is meant to support 2 000 refugees, which is 1,000 euros per refugee. Given that the average hourly rate of a psychologist is about EUR 50, each person is [enabled] about 20 hours. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Tell me if it seems to the ministries that Christmas has arrived in June. Everyone writes what comes to mind...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U599	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U600	Alone this cost line is nonsense. We don't have that many Russian-speaking psychologists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U601	Mr. Reitelmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U602	Thank you. These people have fled situations that we do not even want to dream about, which are linked to torture and all kinds of cruelty. They have had to leave their homes, the little children have had to leave behind their fathers who have remained in Ukraine to fight. The state in which they reach the shadow of Estonia, the kind of support they need, is a very serious matter. And this support, in any case psychological support, must be provided so that they remain healthy as far as possible under these circumstances. When you say that this is an absurd line, I say that this is a very necessary line. I don't think this parallel, if anyone thinks it's Christmas, is really appropriate here. These are very broken people who have reached Estonia. They're broken because they've seen terrible and horrible situations, they've run away from very terrible situations. And since it is 80% women and children whose men and fathers have remained in Ukraine to fight for our freedom there in the same way, we should treat their families exactly the same way when they are hidden in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U603	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U604	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister, The previous crisis has taught us that volunteers are very helpful. I refer above all to the Defence League. Aggression against Ukraine has brought many new members of the Defence League. And the organization is certainly interested in the fact that these people, men and women, young people get involved. But it's gonna need some extra money from the instructors. The Defence League has already said in the past that, in the context of the energy crisis, their budget is in fact under very great pressure and intense pressure. The need for further training and the need for equipment will add to this tension, but I cannot actually find a contribution from this budget to the Defence League. Have we forgotten the Defence League yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U605	I haven't forgotten. The involvement of the Defence Union has indeed already been in this crisis and will continue to be very important. The Defence Union's contribution is also important in the core budget. After all, we already have EUR 749 million in the basic budget for the defence sector before the additional budget, if I remember this number by heart. It already provides for the involvement and contribution of the Defence League to a significant extent. In addition to the packages I have referred to, which are long-term, they also provide for a very important role and additional funding for the Defence Union, so that it is, in any case, valued and important and can also be funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U606	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U607	Thank you, manager. Good minister! On many occasions, you have spoken of these four major cities in response. It is reasonable and understandable that we start with larger municipalities when we talk about communication systems and places of refuge. But here's the question. Well, I say that when it is clear in Ukraine that there are subways and shelters where we are talking about places of refuge. But when will these hiding places in the rest of Estonia [be]? How does the government see it? And if so, the second question will follow up on Mr Ernits' question, who spoke here about the vaccination of animals. It is absolutely right, as you say, that we must help these people, but first we put them in the hotel, now they are in the cabins of the ship and must enter the rental market. I see there are 50,000 refugees in the Ministry of Education. The Minister of Social Protection initially spoke of up to ten... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What is the state in which we [exercise]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U608	Thank you. That's a good question. And my mistake, I should have pointed that out in my introductory speech. All the decisions before you have taken into account that 50000 refugees are the number that reaches Estonia not only through, but will remain here until they can return to Ukraine. This concerns both the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and other institutions, for which the same basis is important for calculating the costs of services or, let us say, expenditure. I also say that the threat reporting system to which you referred concerns not four cities, but 16 cities. Four cities are indeed involved in marking places of refuge: in four major cities, the first plan is to mark places of refuge by the end of this year. But by the end of this year, the notification system must be in place, or at least delivered, for 16 major cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U609	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U610	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, This morning, the Special Committee on State Budget Control revealed the fact that the government has overlooked our letter from our peat producers, who also proposed the creation of a national strategic reserve in the form of peat, so that it could also be used for the production of heat and electricity in the autumn and winter. Our good neighbours, Finns, have done and are also implementing it. On the other hand, we have envisaged buying EUR 170 million of gas, which is 1.7 times the current price. Why are we rejecting any proposals and not using our own resources? How can this be justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U611	Thank you. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has carried out a very thorough assessment of the security of energy supply and its readiness and, according to these proposals, it has been put together [the plan]. They master the subject to the finest detail and best. Now, in the case of a gas supply of EUR 170 million, it is also explained in the explanatory memorandum that it is precisely up to 170 million. Logic is that we make up Estonia's gas supply within 1 terawatt-hour. And 170 million is estimated that at the moment when the reserve is formed, the gas will be procured at a price of 150 euros. For now, we know that this price is lower. So there's a pretty good margin planned in there. I believe I do not want to say anything, but if the price at the moment when the gas is procured is lower, that 170 million will not be used. Its introduction takes place in such a way that the contracting authority is the inventory centre. And then, on the state side, we'll increase the share capital to the extent of the amount at which the procurement is made, or to the extent that the procurement results in a price. So that's why 170 million hasn't been cut into stone, but that 170 million is the limit. But we have to get [gas] in the amount of 1 terawatt-hour, which is about 20% of Estonia's annual consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U612	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U613	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'll take it from 170 million. To be quite honest, you should take possession of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Seriously, Elering and running it. It seems to me that everything that comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs right now is actually quite a mess and our people's pocket of money [in an account]. If it had not been decided in March that the private sector could bring LNG and also build a quay, there could in principle be a 3-million guarantee in this budget that if anything happened next year, the investor would be paid 3 million dollars. Shouldn't be bringing gas from anywhere else. There's a condition back here that it cannot be Russian gas. How is this 1 sharp gas, where it comes from, when Lithuania has turned off the tap towards Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U614	Thank you. I wouldn't be so critical to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and, if I understood correctly, to Elering's address. Indeed, it is a condition imposed by the government that it is possible to form a gas supply in such a way that Russian gas is not purchased. I think it is important to follow it and comply with it. We have been assured that this will be done, and I must trust the awareness and assessment of the people who are active in this area. As far as establishing LNG capacity is concerned, we actually have up to 30 million committed in an additional budget. It's not 30 million, it's up to 30 million. There are three different stages, aren't there, and this is specifically related to the rental of the ship, which should be rented by the Estonian and Finnish joint venture, where Elering is a party on the Estonian side. And we will certainly keep the opportunity to be open to Latvians, Latvia. Let's hope they do too. At the moment, however, it is known that Estonia and Finland are setting up this joint venture and renting it. This does not concern the final construction of the gas pipeline until the berth. I know that negotiations specifically concerning quays are currently underway between a private investor and Elering. I am optimistic, and I believe that they will have the opportunity to reach a solution quite quickly, which will enable this project to start and move ahead quite quickly, because it is important to keep up the pace. This solution must be ready by November of this year, which means that absolutely every day is priced and gold priced. You were very critical, but I hope and believe that these negotiations will end successfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U615	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U616	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You call this budget, the extra budget then, basically, the war budget. A large loan has been taken in order to alleviate the crisis. I read here in the Ministry of Social Affairs' domain such a name as the transformation of service models. It has often been used for branding, regular branding. And over 16 million were allocated for it. Why don't you explain what this has to do with wartime and solving the crisis? How can actions such as the transformation of service models contribute?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U617	Thank you. First, about the loan. With this additional budget, we will not increase the credit limits that we have in the core budget. So it doesn't include taking on any additional loan compared to what we already have a mandate. Now, the service side is related to the implementation of international protection in Estonia. The international protection directive and the extension of international protection automatically result from the services that we have reason to offer and what we offer, to which the people who are hiding from the war have access. These are the services that are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U618	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U619	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! The Prime Minister defined this budget as a war budget and Russian wide-ranging aggression in Ukraine. But military spending here accounts for less than 2%, [so much goes] directly to military defence. As early as March, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence informed us that 200 million out of about the 340 million that we had in the first package of reinforcements for military defence were covered by contracts. In April, the Head of the CIP further explained this: for nine of the 12 categories of ammunition, contracts have been concluded and certain procurements are possible already this year and next year. Very good work. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I have a question: what has happened in the meantime, that this is not reflected in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U620	Thank you. This is an important issue because it needs clarification. To date, everything in this first package of reinforcement should be covered by contracts. As you know, the status covered by contracts means that things are being manufactured and, at one point, they are being obtained in Estonia or delivered to Estonia. The specifics of the budget are that we can only and directly reflect those capabilities, armaments and ammunition that physically reach Estonia in 2022 in the supplementary budget and basic budget. In the case of contracts already concluded, the majority of [their objects] will be here in 2003 and will be included in the 2023 budget. But with the agreements for now, I hope that I will not be wrong to be covered by the whole first package of reinforcements.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U621	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U622	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, To one question about internal defence or wide-spread national defence spending, you answered and read a lot of things that go on, well, which is a little bit more, with a little less money on it. I noticed that, in fact, it's just scattered money that doesn't create any new quality. We do not have new shelters, we do not have shelters, we do not have enough escape points, we have not actually paid enough attention and we have not paid enough attention to the development of financial logistics. We don't have resources spent on security, security of the evacuators, food, medicine and other security. Am I getting this right, or have I suddenly misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U623	Thank you. You haven't got it right. What is included in the supplementary budget in the area of internal security is all related precisely to creating or creating new additional capacities. For example, we've already talked here, right, about the threat reporting system and the sirens. They are not available now, they are being procured and they will be created by the end of this year. It's all complementary. We are also talking about increasing the collapse rescue capacity of volunteer rescuers. This is one of the conclusions that we have drawn from what we see in Ukraine. Creation of independent medical capabilities of the Rescue Board for first aid, medical supplies, Rescue Board network, generation of collapse-saving capabilities, provision of equipment for volunteers from cutters, hydraulics, pneumatic kits, acquisition of support equipment for each region to solve collapse-saving events. It's all 8.8 million in total. It's all new, it's not right now. The creation of evacuation reserves, the establishment of operational continuity requirements for large-scale evacuation sites, not only by establishing them, but also by ensuring that they meet the requirements. Ensuring preparedness for crises, drones for deminerators, for example, and so on. All this must be done further, and what is precisely a new capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U624	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U625	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I looked at the interesting term: guaranteeing constitutional order, EUR 15 million. Can you speak more accurately about what the constitutional order, the EUR 15 million, contains?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U626	Wouldn't it have been nice if you'd given me a little more detail? I'm looking for it now in the extra budget. [[The anti-Semimets will be specified on the spot.]] The government of the Ministry of the Interior? [[Browse papers.]] Wait a minute. I can't find it that fast. But the Home Office has... This is expected to mean additional support for the police. But I think it would make sense if I specified it later so that you wouldn't be misled here. It's just that it's hard to find all the lines in the details.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U627	Before I went to Paul Puustumaa's question, I also looked at this line. Maybe the Minister of Finance can be more specific, but I'm afraid it's a cost to the Department of Defense. It is the task of the Defence Police Department to ensure constitutional order at least according to the Constitution and internal security law. I don't know if it'll help the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U628	I think I'll specify the possibility. I think it's okay with the questioner, and then we'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U629	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U630	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here's the question. Of course, we understand that the situation that has arisen in Ukraine is regrettable. And, of course, we understand this tragedy both for those who come here and for the Ukrainian state as a whole. In the end, it is extremely sad when a country is losing its population. But I have a question about these costs by saying that you have divided them by government. One important article is the cost of the primary needs of war refugees, both under the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. They include Estonian language education. In addition, the row of the Ministry of Education lists 50000 refugees who receive language training, and the line of the Ministry of Culture contains 20000 refugees under this article, plus 10000 specifically for language learning only. Where does the difference come from? First of all, £60,000 or $70,000? Why is that the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U631	There's really no difference. In the case of the Ministry of Education, there is also talk about not 50,000, but about 50,000 people who reach Estonia, of which at present approximately 40% are children, and they are divided between different levels of school or actually not only between school levels, but they are already in early childhood education or kindergarten. So, on the basis of 50,000, it is calculated or estimated how many children can reach our schools and kindergartens in their respective grades or kindergartens. And for all of them, the bounty is taken into account, which is either going to the kindergarten, which is exceptional, because otherwise we do not finance early childhood education by the state, but the situation is exceptional. or general school. Within the bounty, there is quite a significant amount of additional language learning [the money]. And it is really meant for children who are either in kindergartens or in school systems. In the case of the Ministry of Culture, this language training is intended for adults. And there are limits to the capabilities that we can offer just because we have many teachers who can provide these additional language courses. There's just the line coming up on the other side. On the side of the Ministry of Education, the circumstances are that our schools are prepared to offer school places in such a way that all those who have a need to continue education in Estonia will receive a school place and also a kindergarten place. In this regard, municipalities have done a very good job very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U632	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U633	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I would still come back to providing psychological assistance, which is undoubtedly extremely important and very necessary. But these numbers indicate that there is a plan to provide psychological assistance to the circum 40,000 hours. We don't have that many Russian psychologists, it'll take at least ten years. There's so much air in here it's gonna be sick. My question is: did you critically review all the cost lines when you drafted this extra budget, or did you trust the ministries with your eyes closed and go as they asked?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U634	Thank you. These lines were reviewed repeatedly in the government office, and all the leaders of the administration have indeed worked on them in detail, doing this work very thoroughly. If there are situations where there is a critical and urgent need for support or assistance and there is a language barrier, an interpreter's help should also be used. It is not the case that all Ukrainians who escape from it speak Russian. That, too, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U635	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U636	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The security of our e-state has been discussed for a long time. Key players in all areas have stressed the importance of putting more money in it to fill these security holes. Cyber security is very important, but often e-state may have been running a little out of the way in the direction of developments and security has been a little backwards. Do you think that the resources that have been added to the additional budget are sufficient or are they part of a bigger problem? Maybe you can describe it a little bit. I understand we're gonna get better, but are we gonna get really good?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U637	Thank you. It's practically a million-dollar question. Cyber and global cyber security is something that, unfortunately, will never be finished. The moment or situation in which we can say that everything has been done is not coming, because those who constantly test these systems, who attack them, are also developing quite quickly. A lot faster than we'd like. So the constant need to renew your capacity all the time and [to improve] your ability to fend off those who have bad goals requires absolutely constant investment. In fact, with this year's core budget, we have allocated quite [a lot] of additional money to level out our cyber gaps and to get the level of state agencies in this area even better than it has been. The additional amount of EUR 30 million allocated to the additional budget, which is going to improve cyber capabilities, or cyber-sackness, must be sufficient. I would also say that this is something that must not be missed right now. You have to be on guard all the time. Even if we can make an additional investment, there's no way to lean on the chairwork. This is absolutely continuous work and will continue in any case next year as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U638	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U639	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We have talked about the primary production of food on quite a number of occasions today. But I'd ask you that. I could not read from anywhere whether there was any support for food processing in any way in the supplementary budget. Isn't that in the extra budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U640	This is not in the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U641	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U642	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, I am interested in the question that, as we know, gambling is not the best thing, there is often no money at all. It is no secret that the Estonian state plays on the power exchange. The price is once in the same direction, once in the opposite direction. Why don't you tell me how much money is planned to support electricity for the population? After all, we must take into account the situation that the European Union has now produced. The price of electricity can go to a height where the December price increase was a walk in an amusement park somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U643	Thank you. As regards energy prices, this additional budget is, in fact, an important part of the investment. The fact that we invest in energy savings, we also invest in small renewable energy solutions, will still quite significantly help us out of this price-subsidisation situation and trap in the future. We have a one-off allowance for each pensioner and families with children of €50 per child and €50 per pensioner of €50 for every pensioner, which is reserved for the additional budget for the autumn. This is also because, when a new heating season begins, a new cold period, these target groups would have little support to cope with these difficult circumstances. But the truth is that the main cause of the increase in energy prices has nothing to do with anything but the fact that there is a war. That is inevitably the case, and we cannot imagine that with our additional budget or budget we will somehow be able to remedy this situation or pay off everything completely. I'm afraid so. But those people who need support need to be supported. They must have the same fortress. Raising the income support limit by 33% is also part of providing this relief and security to strengthen the national safety net. This must also be understood in the context of the current increase in energy prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U644	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U645	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! My second question is a bit broader and concerns compensation for the military aid granted to Ukraine. Its compensation cost has been estimated by the government itself at 220 million. I would ask this question: what has been reflected in the second package of reinforcements, and is anything that has not yet been reflected going into the third package, for example, with mid-earth anti-aircraft? What's your intention?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U646	Thank you. It's completely covered. It is covered by [in particular] the basic budget and has not been included in the basic budget, and has been covered by later packages of reinforcements. So for confirmation, I can give you that it's covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U647	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U648	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The seventh point in the area of administration of the Ministry of Education and Research is related to the primary needs of war refugees. Here, the concept of a "worm immigrant" also comes into play under the integration of language learning. Who exactly does that mean? Can you speak up a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U649	Thank you. The funds allocated to the Ministry of Education and Research from the additional budget for schools and language training are intended to cover war refugees, their financing for temporary school places, kindergarten places and language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U650	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U651	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Honourable waitress! I asked you about compensating for energy prices. And you pointed out, as one argument, that basically the cause of the ongoing war in Ukraine. But I will not be satisfied with this answer, because if we now rewind [time] to December last year, the most [highest] price increase was 1 megawatt-hour costing 1,000 euros. Although there was no war. So what I want to say is that this argument is simply being sought and trying to hide its omissions behind failure. Nor do I agree that a one-off allowance of EUR 50 per pensioner and [child] would save anyone at this level of price increases. Do you have any additional resources to cover your needs? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U652	Thank you. In my reply, I specifically referred to the fact that the manipulation of energy prices, the emergence of tensions with them, and the overshooting of energy prices by Russia started much earlier when the real attack on Ukraine, which we saw in February, began. It has been part of the weapons or part of the tactics that Russia has used to prepare its attack in order to strain the situation for the Western countries. It's had something to do with it, I'm afraid. The government's proposal is to increase the government reserve fund with an additional EUR 68 million being allocated to cover the unforeseen costs of this year. This is considerably lower than the additional budget for 2020, for example, than the additional budget, if I recall correctly, was intended to increase the reserve by EUR 149 million. But yes, we are, indeed, more cautious at the moment in making [related] plans for tax money, precisely because it is a rather difficult year ahead. But the purpose of the reserve fund, the government reserves, is precisely to make rapid decisions in circumstances where very [sudden] changes may occur in the security situation. The government or the state must then react quickly, and in this case we must have the opportunity to make these decisions. And we have a request to Parliament to provide the means for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U653	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U654	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! I heard that you answered both Mr Grünthal's question and one earlier, quite early, question that everything started well earlier than on 24 February. And you're right. You also pointed out [out] that the rise in energy prices is like this. I'm not sure you're quite right about that. If that were the case and you had thought about it, why has the limit of living not been raised since January? This would have helped these people specifically. It is a good thing that it is now rising, of course, that I have continued to say. But the question concerns page 40. On page 40, social benefits are listed. It has been pointed out here that 1 15% of beneficiaries of temporary protection have been counted as recipients of special care services. But there are people who are war refugees and need general care. The local government's wallet is not bottomless. The budgets are actually being drawn up, but it is not taken into account to support local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U655	Thank you. However, we support local authorities with an additional budget, and it is proposed that additional funds be allocated to the special-purpose reserve to cover the unavoidable costs of war refugees made by local authorities. Why the special-purpose reserve? It is precisely because it was difficult for the municipalities, too, when we came to Parliament with an additional budget, to predict exactly what their needs would be by the end of the year. However, we have a desire not only to cover this service but more generally the inevitable costs of local governments and a request to allocate funds to the special-purpose reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U656	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U657	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is, of course, reasonable and appropriate to take the measures envisaged to resolve this situation, but it seems to me that some of the emphasis, and perhaps the point, has been lost here. We have heard that we have a war budget, but maybe we should have included in the title a budget for refugees or something like that. Let me give you an example. It has been said here that the resources of the Ministry of the Interior's administration are EUR 67 million, but it is now clear that most of it is actually to cover refugee-related activities. And the Home Office has only $26.7 million. But we know their need is at 70 million. What was the logic? Why couldn't it have been purely the Ministry of the Interior and the refugee business?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U658	Thank you. The wartime budget means that we should not be in the same situation as we are if the war did not go to Ukraine. It is, unfortunately, the other side of the coin that these people are fleeing the war and that is why they will come looking for shelter for us. And the expenses associated with war refugees are the expenses of the Home Office. I can't tell you if there's any way I should have brought it out. You, too, can actually point out that the explanatory memorandum makes this very clear. In general, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries, the extra budget is still comprehensive, I would emphasise once again, the logic that, when it comes to long-term needs, long-term investments, the additional budget can only reflect the part that actually arrives this year, which will actually be done this year. There are a number of problems, as well as the investments that need to be decided on in the autumn of the budget strategy, by putting together next year's budget. It is simply not possible to do everything in time this year. It is therefore the case that the additional budget can be reflected purely and only in what will be completed this year. Other concerns remain in the budgetary strategy [to be resolved], which will meet this time in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U659	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U660	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! There is one [saying] that wise learns from the mistakes of others, a fool never learns. I see that we are doing all these psychological counselings, medical check-ups, all these things, but we have not thought that if the conflict in our country is [in place], we are still planning places of refuge. It is not difficult to build shelters. We could make the Kunda a full-blown hug at this point in three shifts so we could get some shelters ready first this summer. Otherwise, it's an investment in psychological counselling, a medical check-up, all of it is [useless]. Perhaps some greens say that, oh, Kunda's chimney is something, but even 200 people whose life we can keep with it are worth more times than the greens' dismay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U661	Thank you. There are shelters now. Yes, I agree that there could, of course, have been a situation where they have already been marked, but unfortunately there is no label. This is what we are currently solving with an additional budget. The protection of the population has been one of those areas where indeed the political readiness to put additional money there has not been excessive in the past. These reviews and presentations have been made before, they have been heard, but they have just been taken into account. Now we're actually putting money in there. In the case of shelters, it must be done by the end of this year that not only experts in this area know where the shelters are, but that they are marked, and not only marked, but also made known to people where the shelters are located. It has to be done by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U662	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U663	Thank you. Thank you for that last explanation. I agree that there is a certain logic here, but my question was pushed by the news that now the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for all activities involving refugees. That's where my question came from. And the police support every area of ours and the Ministry of the Interior, where there's a problem. Hence my question, this introduction to my question, that the war budget in my imagination is still talking about bombs, bullets, missiles and such things. But I'd like to ask you about the future. In designing the next steps, I hope you do not have such calming that support for Ukraine has come into existence in the world and Russia's momentum has subsided, so perhaps there will be such a false confidence that it will no longer be a threat to us. The ability to damage, well, maybe not for a major attack, but for a damaging attack, they probably have a long way to go. Our military powers are important here. I'm asking you, there's no such over-optimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U664	Thank you. The perception and sense of danger has always been higher in Estonia than in any other country. As such and for this reason, we have given concrete support and assistance to Ukraine even before several other countries did, and again, before the military assault started again at the end of February. I do not know, frankly, in the circle of decision-makers in Estonia, anyone who has reason to believe that the seriousness of the situation and its duration are somehow underestimated. The belief or hope that Russia will change in any way during the current regime, that their plans will change in any way, that such naivism can no longer be enjoyed by anyone. This means that both our own additional contribution and the strengthening of collective protection are the directions that must be maximum fortified. And as I said several months ago in this Question Time, we must do absolutely everything necessary to strengthen our security. And this principle is lasting and indeed permanenceable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U665	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U666	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! What's left to you is that if we've given our arms to help Ukraine, our allies are going to give some kind of part, I think it was 77 million suddenly, to the extent that we could compete there to get a little better armaments. I'm asking if it's standard defense weaponry or that kind of deadly weaponry, or assault weaponry. What's my point? The point is that Karis shouldn't walk like Zelenskiy after and ask us to please give us the weaponry to kick the occupyant out of the country. At this point, the available technology is simply helping to slow down [the enemy]. Can you tell the proportion that if we get some kind of armaments aid, how much of an attack weapon is there, and how much of a defence weapon?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U667	Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U668	To Estonia, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U669	Getting our additional equipment and supplies is still such that we can do much harm to the enemy. So that we can not only protect but put in place all the necessary solutions to ensure that Estonia is genuinely strongly protected. It is not only about help, but also about what we ourselves are getting. It's both weapons and ammunition and equipment. In this regard, Estonia has certainly made the best possible decisions very quickly. And once again, it has been based on military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces, which I'm sure it's worth trusting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U670	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U671	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! On page 41 of [Declaration letter], I still ask about the social sphere, it is on this page there is a section on national pension. And that's 3.1 million euros. It is expected that 6% of the target group will be of retirement age and that the national pension will be 180 euros per month. Well, it's not. From 1 April, the national pension shall be EUR 275,34 per month. I don't expect you to be able to answer that right away, but I would appreciate it if you would send me a reply later in writing. Perhaps the Minister for Social Protection will explain this. This raises questions, as EUR 180 per month was not the case last year. It can't be that people's pensions are one sum and the other sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U672	Thank you. I'll send you that clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U673	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U674	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I see that in the area of Homeland Administration, 26.7 million are planned here for population protection and crisis preparedness and so on. Please, would you open up if the amount that was written, that $26.7 million, was what the Rescue Board and the Minister of State asked for the Minister of the Interior. Or how much was the industry's own desire for the activities that professionals foresee to do? What is the amount of scissors between [allowed amount] and the amount of money received in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U675	Thank you. It is [the money] for what can be completed this year. In the case of the Ministry of the Interior, too, the decision we made on investing in security is several years away. I can send you this plan, which is for next year too, later. But indeed, as I said in previous questions, everything that actually arrives this year could simply be included in the supplementary budget. And these needs concern not only this year, but also next year. We also decided that the national budgetary strategy to be drawn up this autumn must take account of these needs and they must be reflected there. So these decisions have been made. I'll send you a detailed overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U676	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. And now we will proceed with the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I call on Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U677	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have here today draft 608, this is the additional budget of the state initiated by the Government of the Republic this year. In the Committee on Finance, this was discussed yesterday, 3 May. The bill was presented by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus with the Minister of Finance Regina Vällik. The draft was also well presented in this Chamber by the Minister and answered the questions. Overall, there are three main aspects to the supplementary budget. These are military defences, internal security and Estonia's energy security. The financing of these related needs needs to be approved. On 3 March, the Ministers of the Interior of the European Union decided to launch a temporary protection directive for Ukrainian war refugees. The Estonian state also provides services to refugees and the additional budget takes into account this, based on the assumption that up to 50000 people will arrive in Estonia. The total cost of the additional budget is EUR 803 million plus VAT, EUR 780 million excluding [VAT]. Of this, 248 million are security and 257 are energy security, and 243 million are intended to cover the primary costs of war refugees. All these amounts are subject to VAT. Prior to the decision to draw up the additional budget, resources were allocated from the government reserve to strengthen crisis preparedness. With the additional budget, these amounts will be recovered from the reserve and the reserve will increase by an additional EUR 68 million. With this contribution from the previous year's budget, the reserve will again rise to 100 million. In the Commission, the draft was presented by the Minister for Finance. The debate on this item lasted a few hours and a half hours or so. It was constructive. We'll continue next week. The debate will probably also take place later, as the specific nature of the draft budget is that it is possible to present changes between the first and second readings, as well as between the second and third readings. In the Commission, there was a proposal to invite ministers to the meeting in the future to present their own points in more detail in the supplementary budget, and we will certainly do so next week. Members of the Commission had very different questions. I'll give you a few more details. Riina Sikkut studied what led to minor changes in the budget lines. There were quite a few hundred of them. The Minister of Finance and his team explained that most of the time there was a desire to accurately show the details and most of these small costs relate to information technology in different ministries, different areas of government. Aivar Kokk wanted more detail because ministries have large sums of money to invest, which are unwritten. An overview of the investments per election area was sent to the Commission in writing. There is some information in the explanatory memorandum. Riina Sikkut examined whether the additional budget would guarantee the capacity of the school network and the accommodation facilities for the reception of refugees, in addition to the bounty. Is there real infrastructure? The Minister of Finance replied that the pressure on the rental market is high in certain areas, but the lion's share of refugees have found themselves living without the help of the state. Only slightly more than 10% live on the premises offered by the state. For many, employers also provide housing. The preparedness of schools and kindergartens is available. In the case of Tallinn, a good example is the Räägu Street School, which has now been taken into further use. In autumn, it will be clearer how many children plan to continue their studies in Estonian schools. A certain concern is that many war refugees want to live and study in large cities, so that the burden on the school system does not seem to be very uniform at the moment. Aivar Sõerd praised that the explanatory memorandum to this additional budget was very well read and specific. He examined why such a large additional invoice did not affect the performance indicators of the activity-based budget, the annual budget. This was justified by the speed at which the budget was drawn up, but the country's budgetary strategy is also expected to update its performance indicators. In addition, some details may not be clear, for example, an additional budget of up to EUR 170 million is currently foreseen for the creation of a gas supply, but the real amount may be lower overall. The Commission finally took the following decisions: I was appointed as rapporteur by consensus. A decision was made to close the first reading of the draft, or rather to consensually propose to stop the first reading. It was proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 11 May. It was a more tense vote: by 5, against 4. That's all for me. I'd be happy to answer the questions. I know that some groups have already taken advantage of them, but some have not yet. So maybe there'll be a few questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U678	Despite the flattery, it doesn't seem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U679	That's too bad. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U680	Then we can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. Urmas Reitelmann, on behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U681	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! No one has the slightest doubt about the necessity of an additional budget. But in introducing this budget, the Minister did not mention it or quite rightly tried to circumvent the prices of energy carriers or, to be quite precise, to be dim on the subject. With God's help, energy prices began to rise due to a green turn or this green idiotism, CO trade and entry into the power exchange. We saw that long before the crisis broke out. Russia's role was zero in this process. Russia's role became more important when the war broke out and sanctions followed. That's one. But, in fact, it is very good for us that reform parties are beginning to fear in their food chain. The Reform Party has been incredibly successful in destroying Estonia's defence capabilities over decades. Their multi-tool minister eliminated military intelligence, hampered the development of combat capabilities, and eliminated border guards. The sequence of these, let's be honest, criminal activities is pretty endless. And the Reform Party was also the one who thought this bear was going to sleep well behind the lake. In 2015, the Reform Party did not read out of Putin's speech at the Munich conference that this bear was about to wake up. The Reform Party and Estonia, I don't know, some intelligence agencies, if they actually exist, didn't find anything dangerous when General Gerassimov gave a speech to the graduates of a military school in 2014, where he said that the war in Europe would start in the next ten years. The Reform Party also did not acknowledge that Estonia did not win the War of Independence because Estonia was militaryly strong, but only because Russia was militarily weak. So we fell asleep here like beauties. And now we're in a situation where we don't have weapons, so we gave up ammunition. And if we make orders today, ladies and gentlemen, we'll be at the end of that line. Last one to order is the last one. We should have done all these operations when the signs became fully understandable. The Reform Party was the one who said at the beginning of the year: no, everything is kosher, nothing is bad. He refused to see danger. Thank God you guys are finally starting to get scared. So this is the extra budget that was thrown on our desk. The amounts are huge, the protection part of it is marginal and indeed, the ministries have Christmas around Midsummer Day: everyone gets what they've been asking, how this money is used, doesn't know. But the Conservatives promise that we will work hard on this extra budget. We're trying to channel these cash flows into the right beds, so the money gets the area that desperately needs it. And all these sums for refugees are obviously overexploited. The refugees need help, but not overcrowding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U682	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U683	Good manager! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the debate on this budget because it is full of air. If the government could have done so quickly [act], if we had solved the COVID crisis in the previous government two years ago in two weeks, half the money should not be in this supplementary budget. There will be constant talk of the 2021 budget transferred in 2020 and of the large minus figures that have been there. But let's face it, the officials of the Ministry of Finance didn't believe either the Minister of Finance or the Chairman of the Monetary Commission at the time. In fact, they live well because they made very good decisions by 2020, a very good budget. Naturally, in 2021, Estonia was the highest economic growth country in the European Union. This could not have been the result of the actions of today's government, as they had only just joined the government this year. I'm looking at today's budget and I'm just going to do a few lines. Energy security. A few days ago, Taavi Veskimägi gave a loud, clear [vote] press release that no LNG terminal was needed to give up Russian gas. Someone must be stupid, but I don't know who. Where would [explicit] gas come from today? Anyone know? The only theoretical possibility of was through Lithuania's LNG terminal. Lithuania has made a formal decision on 25 February, stressing on 25 February this year that Lithuania will not have any cubic metres of gas coming to Latvia, Estonia or Finland this year. There are no other options, there is no LNG terminal in Finland. From autumn onwards, it is said that Russia's war and I do not know what else started the rise in energy prices. In fact, it started with Elering's decision to make Latvia's cable connection and then took over 300 million euros from our pockets with the Finns. On one occasion, the head of one institution has already made a decision that has been paid by Estonian consumers. Now they're gonna run out twice. If the decision made in March was made by Alexela's men in America making contracts for the purchase of gas and the lease of ships, then today the budget should have EUR 3 million as a guarantee if anything happened. The ship would have been rented, the construction of the terminal would have been successful today, the gas would be coming, and the gas would not cost 170 million [1 pointts], as is the case here in the budget, but 50 euros [megawatt-hour]. Who's gonna pay for that so-called reserve gas? What's going to happen to it? Could a household consumer consume that gas in his home? 1 sharp is the quantity of household consumers, 5 sharps are needed for annual consumption in Estonia. Let's talk security. With 200 million euros, Estonia's security has been reduced and supported through Ukraine. Is that support right? Yeah, that support's right. But in the budget, I see 15 million here, 7 million of which are... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U684	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U685	... of which 7 million are for the construction of NATO soldiers' homes. Where does this 200 million come from to cover what has been handed over to Ukraine today? Then we're talking about some 800 million people that somebody's made up their minds about. These are financial decisions, but I do not see any decision in this supplementary budget on the guarantee that these contracts have. It is said that it will be possible to make the next year's expenditure compared to the compliance that is in the budget, but will all the other costs in the Defence Forces be cancelled? No pay? Let's talk about education. Wasn't 20 million out of that 800 million for higher education? Estonia, which is at the top of the world with its education system, is unable to conclude any agreements in higher education for the first year. Over a twelfth of the amount of the previous year shall be carried each month. Isn't there 20 million? I look at these lines: half the lines could be removed from this budget, because they are simply sums traded by ministers, which no one can answer. This investment page that was sent to us is like an empty page. We are talking about excise duties and VAT. It's just embarrassing when you look. I can't say a word about the press because I own a newspaper. But before that, the government distributed millions to the press. There is talk of VAT. At the same time, the minority shares of Eesti Post are wanted to be sold. We asked today what would happen to the delivery. But who cares, because most of the votes in the Riigikogu come from Tallinn and Harjumaa. It's cheaper to bring home, because this painting is going to be expensive. Income support is the only positive message. This is the only positive message in this budget, indeed. But the rise in income support [the limit] should have been done a long time ago. And I don't know, excise duties. Is it true that only farmers, fishermen and oil shale mining for seven months will be subject to excise duty cuts in order to increase five times from 1 January or to say in elections that we will extend it? Maybe we can get farmers' votes for it. Or VAT. We understand clearly that people's situation is complicated. The warm economy, electricity, gas, including wood ♪ all prices have gone up. Why do I not see a biogas application here to produce one sharp gas itself? Maybe certain home heating problems would have been solved. We do not see a wind energy solution here, we do not see a solar energy solution. Can't see what the solution is for oil shale electricity, is there a 20 million reserve cost around here? No, it's not. I think that a lot of amendments need to be made to this bill and a lot of money should be taken out of it. These costs do not need to be incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U686	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U687	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking in this very Chamber a few weeks ago, Ukrainian President Zelenskõi said that Russia must be stopped in Ukraine, or that Europe's free and civilised life is at risk. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has repeatedly said that Putin must not win any, even the smallest, victory in attacking Ukraine. It is these objectives that underpin the additional wartime budget of EUR 802 million put together by the government, which Parliament is currently debating. We want every single euro of this 802 million to go to make Russian President Putin a loser. At this point, I reject the lies that have come out of the EKRE colleague's mouth, which are selflessly trying to justify Russia and Putin's war machine. It is not true that the price of electricity [the increase] had nothing to do with Russia. It had a clear link to the increase in gas prices, which was influenced by Russia. It is not true that military intelligence has been eliminated. I'm just coming from a senior defense class, and there I heard that military intelligence is working and is doing very well. It was the government of the Reform Party and the Centre Party that decided to allocate 380 million more to national defence in January and more than 500 million more in March, or almost a billion euros in total. If they say we're somewhere at the end of the tail, we're not. It is this decision to launch procurements, start searching and obtaining additional military equipment [shows] that we were ahead. We have these orders today, and these things are coming to us. Why isn't this money in the extra budget? The reason is that the cost will occur in the coming years. But I repeat: this morning the Commander of the Defence Forces confirmed that it was all working and coming and we were one step ahead. At the same time, the EKRE accused us of distracting us from the Corona when we were talking about war. That is why, under the leadership of the government of Estonian Kaja Kallas, this epic struggle between the forces of light and darkness has been on the right side since the beginning and has fought in the international arena in a higher order of magnitude than its weight. We were the first to decide to send weapons aid to Ukraine, which was already there before the war broke out. In January, the government decided to increase defence spending by the 380 million already mentioned. We have strengthened Estonia's defence attitude and advocated that our allies, taking away the oxygen needed to wage war on the Russian economy, would do the same. The additional budget will also follow the logic of all these steps. This is with the nuance that we are now able to discuss the financial allocations that the country will be making available in 2022. All expenditure remaining on 31 December will be discussed in the debate on the 2023 budget and the four-year budgetary strategy. So, what are the steps for President Putin to make the disappointment that the government is proposing to take? First of all, we strengthen Estonian national defence, both in the military and in the public defence perspective. If Russia contributed that the attack on Ukraine would lead to a weakening of supporters of the world order based on democratic rules and an increase in Russia's influence, then the opposite is true. Estonia is ready to defend its regime and our people. It is important to stress that this protection plan has been developed by our best experts, based on the objective of increasing defence capabilities in the most rapid manner possible. I hear criticism from the opposition here of why there is no money allocated to the Defence Forces, as Mr Jürgen Ligi often says, retrospectively and half as much. This criticism is also a direct distrust of our best experts in the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. In addition to the Defence Forces, the budget will also strengthen the protection of the population on an unprecedented scale so that our people know what to do in a crisis situation and feel secure. Police and Rescue Board receive, among other things, additional funding for the development of a system of shelters and air alarms. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U688	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U689	We know that in the event of war, the Russian doctrine also provides for hybrid attacks that must weaken the opposite. As far as Ukraine's attack is concerned, Putin hoped to create two crises in Europe: an energy crisis and a refugee crisis. With the additional budget, we are taking steps that make this impossible. Energy security is a very important area where the additional budget makes Putin a loser. A month ago, the government adopted a fundamental decision whereby Estonia renounces the use of Russian gas. We know that while Europe is helping Ukraine in all its military ways, the billions paid to Russia for energy will help Putin to keep his military machine running. With an additional budget, we will create LNG capacity for Estonia, which means that not a cent will go to Russia from our side this year. Today we learned that a contract has been concluded with Finland for the rental of a ship with FSRU, or LNG regasification capacity. I believe that, in cooperation with the private sector, we will arrive at a solution that will create the capacity to receive LNG in the months we have been reading, years before the other countries in our region. In addition, we will continue to take measures that create further solidarity in our society in the energy crisis, so that the effects of war do not create divisions between our people. Here, the government has been very clearly guided by the need-based principle. We will raise the subsistence limit to 200 euros. And if there was a question, why now, then there is a question against the Fatherland: why now? It could have been done a long time ago. And we put money aside to support the elderly and families with children in the autumn to reduce high electricity prices. This support measure, which is particularly important, will be completely unbureaucratic. Thirdly, we will allocate additional budget to cover the costs of the reception of war refugees. We know that Putin's hope of committing extraordinary atrocities against the Ukrainian people was that people fleeing the war would create a real refugee crisis in Europe. However, this has not happened. Despite the efforts of the Russian Information Warriors, in particular, the neighbouring countries of Ukraine have received millions of people, four fifths of whom are women and children. Putin will therefore also lose refugees as a hybrid weapon in an attempt to divide Europe. Of course, there are still many concerns about the rise in prices worldwide in Estonia, which would be tempted to introduce additional supervision. However, I hope that Parliament will be able to keep focus to limit the problems that require the most urgent attention due to the war launched by Putin. Unfortunately, the war is threatening to be long and we must have enough gunpowder to deal with the next stages of the crisis. It is important to adopt an additional budget in May, so that we can start using the money immediately. For example, beneficiaries of income support would receive greater relief this month. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I call on you to support the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U690	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U691	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, Ukraine wins. But in a war situation, emergency decisions are needed, and an additional budget in such a situation is undoubtedly justified. And there is no denying that additional defence costs and energy security for Estonia, including the release of Russian oil and gas and dealing with refugees, all of this requires additional resources and new decisions. So, as I said to the Prime Minister today in Question Time: really, right and beautiful. But the more cynical of us are seeing the approaching elections and retreating from our current principles. Let's take a lot of special-marked diesel in this hall today. The opposition's drafts on the same subject have not been supported. All kinds of excise reductions have been considered as non-target measures which do not in any way allow inflation to be influenced or mitigated in the current situation of rapid increase in input prices. But now the specialized deal [excise] is reduced to the minimum that no one has ever even dreamed of and will rise five times since 1 January. The way the accent goes up five times two months before the election, I want to see. We have already seen a temporary cut in excise duty which has become such a semi-permanent and perhaps even permanent one. I very much welcome farmers and oil shale companies, who will be given the necessary relief. However, the question is whether, in the current situation, if we want to support local food production, a special labelling of reducing the excise duty on diesel is a [necessary] measure, or whether it would be, for example, an increase in school food support, which would make it possible to reduce inequalities, to stand up for children's health and would clearly have regional economic policy implications. Next: today, we also discussed the VAT cut on media publications, the press. The information war can undoubtedly be artificially linked to the current war situation, but in the information war we do not talk so much about mainstream media in Estonian, but that ETV+, for example, can gain strength. The question is, if, for example, we want to offer relief to this 4 million press next year, is there really no better purpose for this money in the current war situation? Thirdly, it is EUR 50. Indeed, there is very little work done in the additional budget for the Estonian people. The inflation rate of 19% of April in our relative poverty rate is still a clear sign of danger. The war situation requires handling the defence and information war, but inflation requires dealing with our own people's livelihoods. It is undoubtedly gratifying that families with children and older people receive EUR 50, well, in the case of the elderly, of whom almost 50% live in relative poverty. However, one-off €50 will not have any impact on the rate of relative poverty. If we want to ensure people's livelihood, the Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed raising the minimum income tax free wage. This would provide an additional EUR 30 per month, up to an additional EUR 360 per year, for example, for a minimum wage servant or an average pension recipient. In the current situation of price increases, this would be essential. Because even if the price increase eases, that means that prices will not rise further, then they will not still fall to last year's level. So, under higher prices, you still have to deal with your former salary, no one in the store is asking if your salary has risen or not. Still asking for a higher price for a potato. And in my opinion, a sort of mischief is that 50 euros is distributed to families and pensioners with children. Helmen Küttt in the Social Democrats repeatedly paid attention to this in recent weeks, asking both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister whether people with reduced working capacity would receive this support. At first, the answers were hesitant and confused, but as regards Helmen's constant questioning, it became clear that yes, it was decided that these people would also receive this help. I think that, without Helmen's question, this EUR 50 grant would have been extended only to old-age pensioners and all the other beneficiaries, including those with reduced working capacity, would otherwise have been deprived of it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U692	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U693	Okay, now for the costs of refugees. It is very nice that the bounty is paid to municipalities at a higher rate to enable people to adapt and learn languages. Accommodation expenses are in the budget of 44 million. In the same way, psychological support is very right! We're ready to put that money on paper. There is no doubt that this can only be supported. But the problem is that school places, affordable rentals and psychological assistance providers were already missing before the war. So, even though we are ready to allocate money, a great deal of effort is needed in all areas of government so that this help can be physically provided to people so that these rooms and services are available. This allocation of money on paper is not enough. And lastly, your people. As we can see in this Chamber, the members of the Riigikogu are already very colorful and verbally inciting hatred against refugees. And in a situation where access to social services and access to mental health services was difficult in the past, efforts must be made to ensure that both refugees and their own people receive this assistance equally. The problems of mental health due to the corona crisis are similar for our students and working people. To avoid the emergence of divisions and hatred, you must also be more generous to your people. So even though we have an extra budget for wartime, there is no need to artificially link specially labelled diesel or press VAT to it. Rather, measures to improve the livelihood of Estonian people and access to social welfare services are clearly necessary. The Social Democrats intend to propose amendments on this issue. I hope, colleagues, that you will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-04_U694	That concludes the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 608. There are no competing proposals here. So the first reading is finished. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3 p.m. on 11 May this year. The sitting is adjourned.
