ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Monitors both here on the spot and online! Good afternoon. We're gonna start the 15th June briefing, and first we're gonna run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U2	12 members of the Riigikogu registered, 89 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. Dear colleagues, I have a suggestion to you that, since there are four issues registered at the moment, we will make an agreement, if it is all right with you, that there is one supplementary question and two additional questions. Would such a suggestion be okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U3	Let's start the briefing. The first questioner is Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds and the topic is the situation in the country. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U4	Good manager! Prime Minister! Summer approaches, and we face many challenges. The rise in heat and food prices, problems with energy security, the new uncertainty about the possible return of the corona epidemic and the uncertain external policy situation. Estonian inflation is currently at a level that has not been in place since 1990. Statistics Estonia publishes the harmonised index of the consumer index and on this basis prices increased by 20% between May and May of last year. High inflation has led to a cost-of-living crisis, where price growth for most families exceeds income growth and savings in real terms fall from month to month. Although the reasons for the rise in prices are global, we should know that, as of 1 June, we are the fifth country in the European Union according to the excise duty rate on motor gasoline. At the same time, countries with a much higher standard of living than us, such as Belgium, France, Germany and Italy, have reduced taxes and reduced regulations on fuel to alleviate price shocks for their consumers. You're saying that the fall in excise duty doesn't reach consumers. There's really no basis. There is also a historically good case in Estonia that disproves such a story. In spring 2020, when the governments of the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Centre Party lowered the excise duty on diesel, this price decrease immediately reached consumers and the price level remained unchanged for four months. I recall that at the same time, the world market price for diesel has increased by 10 cents. After all, the idea of tax policy should not only be to implement the state budget but also to avoid adverse developments. In an advanced society, it should not be acceptable for a less-serving countryman to pay for decisions he does not make in his own pocket. The country has an obvious dilemma. The irrational transport and tax policies pursued over the years have led the state budget to this state of affairs. My question: will you support the amendment by the Pro Patria Party and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to reduce excise duties on petrol and diesel, which would allow 15 euros of unleaded petrol to be refueled more favourably?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U6	Thank you. First of all, good final briefing for everyone this season! Inflation is indeed a major problem. Prices have increased very much, and this increase in prices is very much linked to the rise in energy prices. Both gas and fuel, unfortunately, electricity is making new price records. As energy prices for our people or for the whole portfolio represent a very high proportion, this will inevitably lead to these prices in all other areas as well. Now, it is clear that Estonia has such high inflation, there are many different reasons for this. One of the reasons is that we actually recovered very well from the COVID and that our economic growth has been greater than our neighbours. While growth in Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden has been 4.8%, Finland has been 3.3%, in Estonia it was 8.3%. And therefore, of course, there is also a shortage of goods. Now it's about fuel and excise. First of all, in Estonia, this share of taxes on energy prices has been quite small. That's one side. The other side is that with all these excise duties and VAT reductions, there are very many examples that it is still very difficult to ensure that it reaches consumers. Typically, these examples are that they also reach sellers' profits, but they may not reach consumers. The same examples that you have brought about from countries that have been reduced to a minimum or even lower, for example, in Poland, excise duty was reduced to a lower level than the European minimum. And yet it lasted for two weeks, and after that it rose to 20% higher than it was before that excise. In Germany in exactly the same way, you can read these articles in the media about how Germany is very upset. Billions are actually going for this cut in excise duty, but prices have risen back to the place where they were before the cut in excise duty, which is causing a great deal of resentment to people. So in any case, what I want to say is that we have to help our people cope during this difficult time. Unfortunately, these times do not get any easier for us to look at this coming winter and we need to focus on making it work for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U7	Now for the additional question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U8	Thank you. Of course, unfortunately, I did not receive an answer and I do not think you listened to my speech either. In Estonia, this experiment was carried out two years ago, during the previous coalition, and then this price increase did not increase. And you don't look at the price of oil on the market. Understandably, the situation is complicated. The weakening of the euro against the dollar means that the current price of crude oil is a quarter higher for Europeans than at peak oil prices in 2008. For petrol, peak prices are more than twice as high as in 2008. At present, it is not possible to predict a reduction in price pressure at least in the near future, and the keys to making life easier for fuel consumers are entirely from the government. In addition, the Latvian Government decided on Tuesday from 1 July to the end of 2023 to abolish the requirement that petrol and diesel fuel contain a certain amount of bio-addition. Changes concerning petrol and diesel fuel, according to Latvia, were necessary to reduce fuel retail prices and thus also inflation. Now I ask again: what is your position as Prime Minister at the moment? At the moment, we could save more than EUR 20 on the petrol tank if we cancel the excise duty and the bio-addition obligation. Is this the money that must be taken away from the rural people today, or is there still a chance for the country to see that the increase in fuel prices, thanks to which VAT will be collected much more than the lower limit allowed by the European Union? I'd expect your answer. How is your view whether the fall in excise duty could be what the Riigikogu should have on the agenda of this week at second and third reading today? But in the context of the Reform Party's proposals for improvement, it has not yet reached the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U10	Thank you. First of all, this test two years ago, if you refer to it like this, doesn't work because it was a stable fuel price at the time. Of course, then it will also have an effect, because the price will not always rise. The problem now is that the price is rising steadily. And what has been shown by the practice of other countries is that it is immediately eaten, this fall. Therefore, this effect does not exist. And there's a lot of research on that, actually, in the world, too. At the same time, you want to raise family allowances of EUR 300 million, raise additional spending per year, and then you want to eliminate the revenue of the state on the other hand. So where does the money come from? Where does this money come from to cover the costs of these large subsidies when we cut taxes on the other side? State revenue can come from taxes, can also come from loans, but in any case the loan cannot cover fixed costs. We look at it as if you are presenting it in such a way that the fall in excise duty and the fall in VAT will automatically be passed on to the people. But history doesn't show that. History does not show, especially in a situation where we have a steady rise in prices. Or let us take the same examples when we are talking about lowering VAT in Latvia. This VAT was reduced by 16% on fruit and vegetables, but prices fell by only 1 to 2%. Maybe the dealer's gonna love it. He's gonna get it between us. Now what you're referring to. We also need to learn from other countries and very much to see what others are doing. This topic of Latvia's bio-addition, we look into it as to whether it can produce any effect. But it is clear that this example also indicates that all countries are wrestling at their high fuel and electricity prices. And I absolutely agree that in those places where you have to use a car and you cannot use public transport, where there are long distances, regionally it has a huge impact. That is why we need to see how we can help people who cannot help themselves. We are going through very difficult times, these times are not going to get easier, and that is why we are going over the field, which may have an effect on fuel sellers, but it does not benefit people, it takes a lot of money away from the budget, but it may not bring this help. That is why this focus must be on really helping the people you referred to, who are really hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U11	And now two additional questions, as we agreed. I just have the information that I saw that a member of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Sing, was looking for this opportunity, but I understand that once it was under "Speech," once it was under "Speech." So two further questions at the moment are Peter Ernits and Aivar Kokk. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U12	Good President and Honourable Ruler! My specific question: when will you resign? Allar Jõks has repeatedly said in clear Estonian that such, well I say, fooling around that apparently the change of minister and at the same time the coalition negotiations do not fit together. What do you think? That you still have to put on and let the dogs screaming?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U14	Thank you. Just because you don't like me isn't news, of course. But it is entirely parliamentary, we have a constitution, the Constitution says that the Prime Minister has the right to ministers or to put forward proposals for the release of ministers to the President. We have the Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise, who has said that it is perfectly legitimate. We've had situations like this before. There's been a minority government just like that, which I don't understand, that everyone wants you to be in this coalition, in that respect, and at the same time, you put together somebody else, and then when you get it together, you step back and hop! You look like you're in this new relationship. I have done this by saying that if we have both admitted that this relationship does not work in the form of a coalition, we will end it, put together a new coalition, and in the meantime we will have a minority government. As Members of Parliament, you will have a very good opportunity, according to the constitution, to distrust me and take me down if you do not have this majority together. Well, the only real question for me is the President of the Riigikogu, who, for example, you cannot take down if the majority of Parliament changes. He might want to step back. To take me down, you have all the levers you need, and that can be done. So if you don't like it, make a motion of distrust, I will come in front of you and answer questions, then there will be a vote and it will be in Parliament's order, as the Constitution provides. And if that doesn't work, I'll continue, if it does, then there's someone else who's gonna be asking for this mandate. I, too, will be ready when we get the coalition together and Parliament considers it necessary to ask for a new mandate, although there is no need to ask for a new mandate directly for the ministerial exchange. If the feeling is that it's necessary, then I'm willing to do it when the coalition is together. If this coalition doesn't come together, please, so that this coalition will be brought together by someone else, you can make a mistrust and take me down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U15	Due to the Constitution, we will continue this briefing in the parliamentary state in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U16	Yes, good manager, of course, procedural. The ruler said I didn't like him. I say I do, especially his red dress today. But I don't like his arrogance and arrogance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U17	Thank you. And now for the second supplementary question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U18	Good manager! Prime Minister! I would remind you that, when the excise duty was lowered on 1 May 2020, the market price of diesel, for example, increased by 10% over the next four months, but in Estonian gas stations, the next four months were cheaper for fuel sales. It is not quite fair to companies operating in Estonia, although we sometimes do not understand that if fuel rises or falls on the market, why doesn't it rise at the gas station? But I have another question. There are 800 million in the national budget, and then you have caused some 700 million defence costs, but you have never asked where the cover is. We see every month that 16% plus comes with more tax revenues. This situation is not so critical that family allowances cannot be accepted. But the Estonian Stock Exchange Office has tendered here, 170 million euros is for the purchase of one sharp gas. Can you tell me how many companies tendered and at what price this gas was offered? So did it show that reality that anyone can offer that gas? Or, in fact, the example is that if we cannot connect to our LNG reception terminal, this winter will be the people of Estonia, entrepreneurs who need to consume gas, will cold or production stop?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U19	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U20	Thank you. You have also asked this question to the Estonian Stock Centre, as it should. And you know very well that I can't publicly list this information here. This letter has come to you in response on 14 June, where the answer to your question has all been recorded, concerning this offer and at what prices that offer was. So you have the information, and unfortunately I have no right to disclose it to the big public here. Yeah, you'll get that information from that letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U22	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, and met by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, the topic is frame policy. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U23	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The first question is that you don't have a chancellor, but the chancellor's advisor is brave. And my question is, why did you get rid of the chancellor? Were there political reasons for the former chancellor's more like looking at the bushes or somewhere else, not politically agreeing what you are? Or was there some kind of rural matter that you skis crossed with each other, as they say?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U24	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U25	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! As you know, according to the law, the Minister has the right to terminate his employment with the chancellor after six months. I didn't use that six months as a political excuse. Now, if I remember correctly, during another government in the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the chancellor was replaced for political reasons. And the advisor is at work because Chancellor Marko Gorban is currently acting as Deputy Chancellor. There's a task-sharing on the team right now. Since no criminal charges have been brought against the counsellor, I think he can work peacefully in advance until the moment when the new Chancellor is appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U26	Peter Ernits, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U27	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Let's take it a little further away, even though there's a lot of questions from the Ministry. The year was 21, when at the beginning the plan was to take another third member of the Board of Directors into the Rural Promotion Foundation, in the meantime two were placed on the plate. There's only one tonight. But then, a year ago, there was talk about how a huge amount of work is at the Rural Promotion Foundation, and now suddenly a member of the board can do it. Is there a reduction in work on the MES, or is the current board member exceptionally capable, is there a three-person job, a three-man job, or is there some other, third thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U29	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Now, if I remember correctly, you can fix me later, then at that time the Minister of Rural Affairs was Mart Järvik. Indeed, there was such a talk that there could be a third member of the board, Mr Arumäe, who also worked as adviser to this minister. What happened to Arumägi, we have read in the press, and it is extremely regrettable that they used their position in the pursuit of their interests. Today, we have discussed this with the Council and with a member of the Bureau, and at the moment there is no plan to appoint another member of the Board. But that does not mean that in the future, the issue will not come back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U30	And now two additional questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am a little off the subject, but I would like to thank you for supporting the majority of the Riigikogu in the extra budget, that the special-marked excise duties on fuel were lowered to the lower level of the European Union, and that is only until the end of this year, but the budget discussions for next year are still coming. That's the question. I did not receive an answer from the Prime Minister as to whether he would also support the reduction of excise duty on petrol, unleaded petrol and diesel to the lower European Union. How does the Minister for Rural Affairs feel that if companies in one sector, agriculture, fisheries and mining, were granted this advantage, could this benefit also be granted to the rest of the sectors, both private consumers and businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U33	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, the Ministry of Rural Affairs made this proposal in the negotiations concerning the reduction of diesel, specially labelled excise duties on fuel to the minimum permitted in Europe, and it did so precisely because of the fact that it would reduce the cost of certain inputs in agriculture, which it certainly has an impact on both the income of rural people and partly and indirectly on food prices. And today, when we actually look at the sales of conventional diesel, we must also take into account that our excise duty reduction also applies to ordinary consumers, and it is divided into steps, and it is precisely those things that happened to us during consumption and prices at COVID. Russia's aggression in Ukraine now amplified it, in fact Russia was also planning some confusion and shock on the fuel market, including the gas market. And as a result, lowering excise duties on fuel to the minimum level today will not result in the effect that we could expect, and this was demonstrated by the latest experience in Germany, where these prices rose in two weeks. Because this is the situation that has happened now, that you actually rightly referred to the fact that oil prices have fallen to some extent. But the opposite effect has happened. Those who are processing oil then their profits have multiplied and, as a result, in the whole chain, so that the consumer can receive the so-called potential advantage of this country, have, in my opinion, been reduced to a minimum. But what should be considered, in my opinion, is that this minimum rate of specially labelled diesel could and should perhaps be extended, but, as you rightly pointed out, when coalition negotiations are taking place and a new government is formed at one point, then this should actually be decided by these discussions behind the tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U34	A further question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U35	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Looks like you've been having a hard time lately, and you're raping your services rough. But I'm interested in the quiet disappearance of Andres Oopkaup, Chairman of the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation, and also of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Ring was either removed or left. Minister, why have such sudden and silent changes occurred in the MES?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U36	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U37	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! You will certainly use these facts quite arbitrarily through the question you have now put through the public. Firstly, when you noticed that indeed, at the time I became a minister in the Council of the MES, certain members of the political council were replaced on the basis of what had been done during the previous government, under the leadership of the ministers of the EKRE. There was a clear reason for this: we wanted to get more additional expertise from non-politicals in the Council. This means that the competence of the University of Life Sciences, the competence of the Food Union and also the competence of agricultural organisations were brought back there. It is true that the competence of agricultural organisations takes place through rotation and year by year. No one literally cleaned up the Ring of Roomet, as you referred to it, but it took place through rotation, because at first there was a representative of the Farmers' Confederation. That's part one. The second, concerning the quiet departure of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, was not quiet, but the Chairman of the Supervisory Board pointed out earlier that at some point he had a desire to leave on the basis that his occupation in the sector was sufficiently time-consuming and that his expertise was needed elsewhere. As a result, neither I as a minister nor anyone else put any pressure on the chairman of the Council to leave. He did so at exactly the right moment, when he thought it was right from his own point of view. It has already been appointed and the Council has already elected both the chairman and the vice-chairman today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U38	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U39	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, the topic is the problems of the construction register. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Maris Lauri! Somehow it has turned out that you are also fulfilling the role of Minister of Economic Affairs, I understand, at least at the moment, according to the information I know. Therefore, in this Question Time, I would like to share some ideas with you and share with the public this situation, which has also been described in the media in the coming days. For example, yesterday, through Estonian National Broadcasting, municipalities spoke out and said that the construction register was kind of bad. Procedural deadlines are difficult to comply with. Because this environment has been renewed with the support of the consortium, it has cost the state taxpayer somewhere EUR 350000. But the problem is, this environment doesn't want to work. Well, it's no surprise to us either, that every time the innovations are implemented, when the woods are cut, the chips fly. That's the wisdom of the old people. So, with this digital environment, it tends to be that troubles still come out when it has to be put into practice. But as an e-state, we could learn from the fact that, in the same way, we would have this level of contracting ability and negotiating with the local governments, too, that we would not go to these things for perhaps the fastest period of time. Today is the most intensive construction period in which communications are obviously taken at the most during the year. And, unfortunately, people, workers, municipalities are also coming up with holiday periods and they want to carry out procedures more quickly in the interests of everyone, but this environment does not allow. Why are we in this situation? Couldn't we have predicted, or did we make a mistake in the procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U41	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U42	Thank you. This is a really important subject. And frankly, the first major problem, which I think came the day I took up this job. And we also talked to the parties involved about the causes of this problem and how it would be resolved. I, too, had the questions that have been asked in public, so why did this happen? First of all, the former building register was not very consumer-friendly either, and it was very much in the way of time. But this register had another very big and bad quality, so it was just a big security breach. In the current security environment, where Estonia is basically attacked on a daily basis, leaving an important register vulnerable, it is undoubtedly unacceptable. This was one of the reasons why this process was continued, although perhaps longer testing might have been considered. The second fact is certainly that this register has been introduced, a new register, in stages. There had also been earlier ideas that a new one would be made so to speak, and then, when the new one was finished, it would be lifted, right? This proved to be an overly costly solution and will lead to a gradual transition. Now it's going to be one, I think it was the second stage, and it's going to be a relatively large transition moment. There will be large parts, and he will touch a great many elements. And the fact that this old building register didn't work and the problems were caused by the circumstances that have really kicked it out. Maybe the old register, his developments aren't all documented, which is why we don't have people who know exactly how it's built up, this old register. So we definitely can't go back to the old register. But it also meant that it was extremely difficult to foresee those reactions that would happen when the system was changed. It was also one of the factors. And even though tests were carried out before this second stage was implemented, not all the problems that came up in practice, that is, these undocumented craps in the previous register, changes made somewhere on the knee end or accidentally in one-off cases, just came out. That was one more reason there. But... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U43	Now please specify the question, Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U44	Thank you. However, just yesterday I also received a letter from the municipality saying that there is no answer to the e-mails, the information lines are overloaded, there is no answer to the question. It was only yesterday that instructions were actually sent to users on how to actually administer this environment and do these operations. I still come back to the question that if we order some kind of innovation, it will all start with negotiations, especially with the local authorities, who are responsible for using this register. You could agree logically on a time when you could switch, where the load would be much lower, and in fact these mistakes could be resolved within a reasonable time. Today, compliance with procedural deadlines is a problem. Plus the client's ability question. We understand that there were problems with the old register, it has been pointed out that it would have cost EUR 100000 to close the security hole. Well, it seems kind of mysterious to me to compare, of course, that 350,000 costs a new environment and 100,000 costs a security hole to close. But perhaps indeed this system was built in such a way that it was no longer possible to easily take over and make these improvements, but it was easier to make a new one. But the question of the client's ability. How do you assess where we are with this? This is not the first and probably the last example in Estonia, where we are not actually able to agree on this framework, we are obviously unable to give a proper starting task by the state, and we are all suffering in the end. The cost of nerves and the time spent in society must again be paid for in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U45	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U46	Thank you. Certainly one, if I did not get to this other problem in the previous answer, what is, is that the new building register has been built up with another logic. This means that existing users will certainly have an outsider to use the new register and may not have the courage to use all the functionality. I'm sure it's this place, too. Indeed, for some reason, these lessons tend to be extremely painful all the time. But I've been assured that some guidance material has been made, that people have been taken to the information phone. There are people who specifically communicate with larger users to solve their problems. Undoubtedly, this could have been done earlier, these preparations earlier. I hope this is another lesson now. It is certainly strange in itself that this situation has arisen in a ministry where there is also the IT Minister and the IT Deputy Chancellor, this area. Somehow and in some way, since I was not there myself, in an incomprehensible way, these things may not have come out best. Now, I think we need to focus on making this system work as quickly as possible, solving customer problems. As far as I am aware, this order is being dealt with before the major problems are solved and the smaller ones are being dealt with in stages, and those that are less relevant to customers are being moved forward. It will certainly help if customers notice or do not understand something, they will. Unfortunately, it must indeed be said that because of the great resentment and the great conversions, the ability of the organisation to react is slower than usual. But I'm sure they're making an effort. I looked the leaders in the eye who were leading this process, and they were really worried. I hope, and I also had this feeling that they want to make this thing work quickly, and they themselves feel very well that it didn't work out very well this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U47	And now two additional questions. First Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U48	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I would also like to talk about the economic sector. We met people in the infrastructure today, and they're worried about building roads. According to the press, the volume of road construction will fall dramatically in the next few years and this year the Transport Board has abandoned 50 sites, somewhere 20 million plus VAT. Can you tell me what the reason is? And could the head of the Transport Department be involved in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U49	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U50	Thank you. No, the departure of the head of the Transport Department has nothing to do with this. He has explained very clearly why he wanted to resign. He's not under pressure, at least not by me. The revision of road construction plans is due to a significant increase in the cost of road construction. There has been an increase in bitumen, an increase in equipment, a rise in labour force, and a wide variety of infrastructure projects also require the use of metal, the availability of which has significantly deteriorated. There are agreements on how to do this, depending on the contract. Unfortunately, it is not possible to find the means to cover all planned construction activities to the extent that this appreciation is. Inevitably, choices must be made and choices made in order of particular priorities, including from where one or the other project has come into being in its development or its importance and from which funds it will be financed. For example, if there are still European Union resources and there is a very specific deadline for them to be used, we must make an effort to ensure that the objects that are involved in this funding can be done. And inevitably, the others will stretch, delay. If prices stabilise, then there will certainly be a follow-up to their construction activities as well. This behaviour, in fact, by the state is exactly the same as I suppose it is in a lot of families. In a situation where prices are rising, choices are made and more important ones are made, the most important ones are taken first, the others are simply postponed. That doesn't mean they don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U51	And now for the second supplementary question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U52	Good manager! Dear Minister for Justice, Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, That is the question: in the next government, do you have an agreement with the ruler that you will continue in the same position? And how does this work, whether the vacant seats will be filled with new partners, but the male or female party of the Reform Party will continue in the same composition, including you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U53	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U54	Thank you. I don't know if I'm going to continue or not. It depends on the agreements, and that certainly depends on the choices made by the Prime Minister. The current position, as has been repeatedly explained to the public, is due to the current ministerial replacement regime. Three replacements have been appointed to each minister, and I was the second-order substitute for Taavi Asa, the first one I remember was Jaak Aab, so that's how I replace it. As far as I know, all the other ministers are replacing by exactly the same logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U55	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U56	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner, meets the Rural Minister Urmas Kruuse and the theme is nature conservation benefits in forestry. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U57	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, My question is aimed at the payment of compensation for nature conservation restrictions. You are the right answer, because you currently hold the portfolio of both the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment. When Estonia joined the European Union, we made a commitment to significantly increase the area of forests that are strictly protected and restricted. We have done well to protect our forests, and we are also one of the most successful countries among our European Union partners. On top of the three peaks, I think. At that time, compensation of EUR 110 per hectare for the provision of such an ecosystem service to private owners under the strict forest regime and EUR 60 per hectare for the forests in the restricted zone was provided for. Inflation has been very considerable since then, however, and if we add what comes to this year, we will see that the compensation has almost doubled. For the southern neighbours, the corresponding compensation amounts to up to two and a half euros per hectare. Nature conservation is a public good and the costs should be borne by society in solidarity. However, the current situation means that forest owners are burdened disproportionately. All in all, today's system is destroying both rural and nature conservation. Do you agree that benefits should at least be raised to a level that takes account of years of inflation? And if you agree, could it happen in 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U59	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Undoubtedly, unit rates changing over time can actually get in the way of real life. However, if we also look at the budgets that we have set in Natura and outside the target zones from the perspective of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, then we can say that there has actually been an increase since 2021. What does that really mean? From our perspective, we increased the budget by nearly 14%. This means that EUR 5 million per year. Now this second part of this in your question actually refers to what may and, in my opinion, is the problem, is that these unit rates are averages. This average means that the owners who will be compensated for their income, how I say, from their potential economic activity, are at a very different level, which can, on the one hand, give rise to this sense of injustice. What am I saying? We should actually differentiate them in order for these unit rates to continue to be fairer in the future. And here it is related to the LIFE "Natural Estonia" project, where there is the development of new unit rates for Natura sites, which should make this system fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U60	And now the point to be clarified. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U61	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree that there should be a differentiation. And today, in fact, also in the case of probably low productivity rates, no can be nibin-nabin today's benefits cover these costs, in the right case, in the right case. But the fact is also that we have come to a very, very large number of protected forests, and that is why this absolute amount has also increased the amount of compensation per hectare itself. But the other half of my question actually comes to the local government line. Natural protected land is exempted from land tax in strictly protected areas at 100% and in the restricted zone at 50%. And nature conservation, as has been said in the past, is a transnational task, perhaps a task for the state, and that is what our court has said in the event of various disputes. At the same time, the land tax is received by 100% of the municipalities and is also intended to cover the costs of the services provided by the municipalities, such as local roads, the salaries of kindergarten teachers, the education of interest and so on. At the same time, the State does not compensate the municipalities for the loss of land tax. At today's country tax level, the amount of income foregone is about 4.2 million euros and the state should compensate the municipalities. And now my question: do you agree that the state should compensate for this and that you are ready to defend this principle when drawing up the state budget for the new year, so that the state fulfils its obligations and then compensates the municipalities for the land tax exemption under nature conservation and thus also creates the possibility that the municipalities can fulfil the tasks they must carry out anyway: education, culture, roads and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U62	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U63	Thank you. Although the subject of land tax is not a matter of competence at the moment of my ministry, I expect that various issues will also be dealt with during possible coalition negotiations, including possible tax issues. It is a matter of compensation that, indeed, there are certain things in society that occur in community or social agreements and, therefore, compensation for all things is not always a priori that if we are also talking about a certain nature protection law and some other laws must be enforced even if no compensation is foreseen. That's what it means. But on your question, there was an important observation that we must take into account that, if we want to extend certain restrictions, in the long term, in order not to bring down the unit rate even more, we should take into account that this requires additional resources. And therefore, in fact, in the budgetary strategy for next year, we proposed to the Ministry of Finance, which was due on 1 June. So that we could support and propose to the Ministry of the Environment that it support additional resources and in future we could look at both national funds and, for example, rural development funds as a whole in order to find more optimal solutions and fairer procedures for the benefits you have put in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U64	And now two additional questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U65	Good manager! Good minister! Let's move on to this environmental issue. How do you feel about building public infrastructure on many natural and protected areas? For example, more has been said about Rail Baltic, how this should proceed. Could the necessary infrastructure at national level be built where it is needed, and then should the state and private investors be treated equally or, if the state wants to build, infrastructure will be built on the nature reserve, and if private people would like to, this should be ignored?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U67	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If you ask my opinion, I am convinced that regardless of who builds, whether the state is building or the private sector, different environmental impacts and disturbances must be addressed. This actually means that environmental impact assessments are also important, and the expertise that comes with it is certainly necessary. We should not make a distinction in this analysis if we are to carry out these analyses, who is the customer, but should be based on a specific situation, whether it be nature, be it a neighbour or the owner of a neighbour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U68	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U69	Good manager! Minister for Rural Affairs and the Environment. I'm still coming to the Directory of Rural Affairs' frame policy right now. You have several department heads and their deputies missing, but some have been heavily manned again, this IT department, I think there are 22 people there, and the legal department is almost 20. But at the same time, you often use expensive law firms as legal aid. Can't this legal department, this 19-year-old, handle legal counseling? And do you intend to reduce or increase this department or continue to use expensive law firms for legal advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U70	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U71	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. Since 2015, 100 posts have been reduced in our administration. This is one part of where we must take full account of how much taxpayers' money we spend on certain activities. Another important part of this is that if you have looked and observed the wage levels of different ministries as a member of the Riigikogu, you must admit that the wage levels of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and its administration are always in the final position, plus-minus we will exchange these places with the Ministry of the Environment, as far as I know, depending on the year. This means that we need to find additional resources to pay wages and remain competitive, including efficiency. Now your reference to us using expensive lawyers is not quite accurate. This means that in a certain area, because such an entity cannot and cannot maintain its full competence, it is simply not possible to do so, it is reasonable to use, from time to time, certain external expertise to resolve the matters in which it is required. And both the IT department and the legal department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs do not only mean that he is handling the house at Laia Street, but it actually means a wider council in certain places according to the structure in which the tasks are divided.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U72	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U73	Dear colleagues, now it is that the issues registered before us are over. We are now going to such a form in Question Time, and I will continue to give you the information that we are still a parliamentary state, that we have the opportunity to ask the government, that the law provides for this possibility if you wish. Please ask your one question, let us know who it goes to from the members of the government at the beginning of the question, and then ask. Let's get started. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U74	Good manager! Prime Minister! Perhaps you could enlighten the members of the Riigikogu. We know that over 40,000 Ukrainian war refugees have come to Estonia today. Why don't you tell me how many of them have come through the Narva border crossing? And how many of those who have come through the Narva border crossing point, many of them young men, 18+ years, who really should be serving in Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U76	Thank you. First of all, if you had to know these questions in advance, you could answer them correctly in numerical terms, but I don't have that number here right now. But it is true that in recent times, refugees come to us predominantly across the eastern border, or through Russia. It is also known that there we have enhanced security controls. These people are working hard before they are even admitted to the country just to check who these people are, whether they are still from Ukraine, where they are going and what these needs are. This is the very issue that has arisen in the case of men, and that is why last Thursday, in the Cabinet of Government, we discussed it, in order to make border controls even more effective at the eastern border, so that the Ukrainian men who are either supposed to be fighting in Ukraine or are still not Ukrainian citizens. There is now a general procedure for recognising or accepting all identity documents, but it is only our desire to accept biometric passports to make sure that people are who they say they are. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior should come tomorrow with proposals on how to make it even more effective in taking down these concerns. It is clear that it is a concern for us if these people still come through Russia, if it is not someone else that they say they are, and if there are no concerns about our security. The desire is to strengthen the admission of men, men of Ukraine. This will probably cause some resentment, but it is important from our security point of view that we carry out such additional security checks on these people. Indeed, we still have a neighbour from Russia, and we know that Russia is using every possible means to weaken us, so we must strengthen our defence in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U77	Thank you. That concludes this issue. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U78	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister. As we know, inflation figures are very high in Estonia, people are getting harder and harder to cope with from day to day. Compared to the year, the price of heat energy has increased by 61%, electricity by 146%, gas by 217%. As we know, food makes up 21% of the family's budget for the circa. And I ask whether, in this situation, where there are only three countries in the European Union other than Estonia which do not apply a special rate of VAT on food, it is not time for Estonia to reduce VAT. As we know that the European Union has a minimum rate of 9%, today the VAT rate is 21%. Is it discussed in the government that if there is a new coalition, could we reduce the VAT rate by 11% to 9%? That would be a great relief for the people's food basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U79	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U80	Thank you. Inflation, price increases are a major problem and indeed, people's livelihoods are affected by them. Now, the concern is that, if normally high inflation goes hand in hand with high economic growth, the tools that the country holds are very clear. You need to cool down growth and the economy, and that brings inflation down. If there is slow economic growth, as a rule, inflation is slow and, as a result, it should stimulate the economy. In other words, different measures will have to be taken. The bad news is we're in two difficult situations. That's not normal. We are meeting with a slowdown in economic growth and, on the other hand, high inflation. Perhaps if you take the usual steps to contain inflation, you will slow the economy further. If you take the usual steps to boost economic growth, you're going to give more weight to inflation. Therefore, Eesti Pank's recommendations have drawn the government's attention to the fact that, in the context of such high inflation, measures to help people should be very focused, precisely so as not to give much strength to overall inflation. What have we done about food now? We have adopted an additional budget with you in the government, and in the supplementary budget, we also have a fall in the excise duty on special diesel, precisely because it helps food producers also bring prices down. But just as I answered Aivar Koka's question here, unfortunately, the problem with these excise cuts is that, first of all, they're over the field. Secondly, they do not help those most needed to be helped. And third, unfortunately, this cut in excise duty or VAT, as a rule, is sometimes lost by sellers. It doesn't get to a person. What we need to look at to meet in the autumn is how to help people cope. And help the most vulnerable groups to cope with the costs that are inevitable, which cannot be reduced in any way. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U82	Thank you. My question is also for the Prime Minister. Dear Kaja Kallas! There would be a lot more to ask of you, but first I would like to continue with the same subject that was previously mentioned here, about the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs. This is the subject that our party has been dealing with for 10, 15, 20 years, with the Reform Party when we were in government. We've been arguing about this. I've been a themer in this room myself. You do not want to recognise that most countries have reduced the food tax, in many countries there is zero value added tax (VAT) on food. Tell me, why don't you want to try? Why do you always say no one wins anything with it, entrepreneurs win if you haven't tried? I have this feeling that I simply do not understand that these consumption taxes are regressive. The lower the salary, the more you have to pay your salary as a relationship. For poorer people, it would be very helpful. It seems to me that you are defending the position of the wealthy. And in order for the wealthy to receive more money from the state, these indirect taxes will be raised or kept in place and will not be lowered, which people with lower income will then pay off. And I ask: why do you not want to support and help those people with lower incomes to get their share of this country's wealth or economic growth, and you will miss them completely? I see the Minister of Agriculture is telling me, but I'd like to hear some new views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U83	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U84	Thank you. Firstly, we are a small country and we must certainly learn from the experiences of others. A good example is in Latvia, where VAT was reduced by 16% but prices fell by 1 to 2%. What I'm trying to say is that we have to help those people with no aim, who need this help more. Such things over the field affect everyone and give them, as you call them, to the rich who don't need it now. We don't have all these... I mean, we can learn from others in this key to avoid mistakes. We are a small country, while at the same time you want to raise or charge 300 million extra costs to the country. I mean, the question is, where's all this coming from? Where is this revenue to cover the additional cost if, at the same time, tax falls and massive increases in subsidies? Grants should be very targeted. This proposal now helps 23687 families, but the fact that families with three children, including many members of the Riigikogu who have three children, receive 500 euros does not help those who really need it. And that is why the focus should be that we really can survive these difficult times and help those people who need the most help, for whom the cost of housing and the increase in food prices hit the hardest, because it represents a very large part of their shopping basket. This is not the case for people with such higher incomes, but such a uniform tax reduction or uniform support will also help those who do not really need it. There are quite a number of these in the Riigikogu Chamber who, in this form, would really gain 500 euros or even more every month, and this will be maintained by those who receive the minimum wage of 654 euros per month, who will maintain these allowances from their taxes. So we need to understand clearly where the money comes from and help those most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U85	Thank you! That concludes the question, and let us move on to the next question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U86	Thank you very much, Chairman. My question is also for the Prime Minister and concerns the hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe. Here a while ago, there was also a serious debate at the level of the government where ministers defended, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Culture, his positions. The Government of the Republic decided that in principle the Environmental Board should issue this specific water permit or environmental permit. And there is a centre of gravity or the problem is that it is a Natura site and this Jägala River, well you should look for a replaceable place and unfortunately there are not too many rivers in Estonia. The Narva River could be, but it is also, let's say, solving this problem in this case would be like Russia is under control and, unfortunately, we cannot intervene there. And my question is, maybe you could give me a little insight into how this process should proceed? What were these final weight languages and how was the Environmental Board or what message was the Government of the Republic to the Environmental Board, how does the solution stand out from your perspective or from the perspective of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U87	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U88	Thank you. Indeed, this issue has been discussed for a very long time and there are different interests that are colliding and that decision had to be made in one way or the other. And now, if I remember correctly, on the one hand, there was heritage conservation, this is a heritage heritage monument, on the other hand, because of this barrier, there is a swollen lake, there is a recreation area that is very important to local people, there really is a swimming area, there are also new nesting sites, I understand that bats. In addition, this hydroelectric power plant also produces renewable electricity, yes, little, but still produces and has been there for 100 years. The Natura site was established in 2004, and indeed later, when it had been there for a very long time. And on the other side of the argument, this was the argument of the fishes that the spawning area of the fish could be longer until Jägala falls. But it seems to me that if the fish haven't gotten out of there for 100 years, then maybe the fish are used to it, too, so there's no way out of there. And the government really had to make that decision by considering these different arguments, on one side there were five arguments, and on the other side it was an argument for fish, or nature. And the Minister of the Environment was very protective of it by the environment, and various views were expressed there. So, eventually, the government had to decide. Since this decision, as the Chancellor of Justice has said, that the decision must consider these different interests, we have also taken into account the decisions of the Supreme Court, which have been made in similar cases in order to sift these arguments out of it. Then the decision is that it's gonna stick and it won't break the barrier. So it makes sense, then, that if it stays in the air, it will have a special permit for water use, but from that perspective it should be, but of course the Environmental Board should make that decision accordingly. The government has decided, taking into account all these interests, to keep this bulge, the historic bulge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U89	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I really have to admit that if in the Estonian country I believe there was a management crisis here for the last few weeks, unfortunately we have to admit that today we have moved from the governance crisis to the democratic crisis, and I think it is very bad. Bad in the sense that one party has paralyzed the entire work of Parliament, paralyzed it for weeks, it does not seem democratic. The second is that one party, the Reform Party under your leadership, threw ladies and gentlemen sitting behind me like daffodils out of the government. I don't think it looks democratic. And your speech today that you said before Parliament a parliament that is an employer of the government, not the other way round, that the President of the Riigikogu should resign. I think it is not democratic, and it shows that this leadership of one party, even in the short term, is not good for the Estonian state. But I come to my question. If there was a good coalition between the Centre Party and the Reform Party, you were very inflexible and said that no compromise will be made on family benefits, and you want to discuss this subject with the budget for next year to be drawn up in the autumn. Today, we heard from you at the coalition negotiations press conference that you have made some sort of compromise offer. Be a good Parliament to discuss this issue for the second week, and the will of the majority of Parliament to move forward with this bill, and our desire has been for several weeks in the direction of the Reform Party, so please come help us, we will resolve this issue together, offer compromises, I would be happy to listen to what then is the compromise where you want to harvest this cent in half.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U91	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U92	Thank you. Interestingly, it does not bother you that your partner party EKRE has practically stopped all the drafts in the Riigikogu, the whole work of the Riigikogu. But that's what's optional, isn't it? What was my reference to the President of the Riigikogu was that if the Riigikogu can call back the Prime Minister, it cannot call back the Chairman of the Parliament, who has also been elected by a different coalition. In this sense, if this coalition no longer exists, the Chairman of the Riigikogu does not have this mandate. The only way to change the Chairman of the Riigikogu is for the President of the Riigikogu to resign because from behind him this mandate has gone away. There are two ways to get rid of me: you can give me mistrust, and the other is that there will be a new government coalition and you can ask for a mandate for it. What's interesting is that you're suggesting it was a very good coalition. Yes, we would have liked to continue in this coalition, too. I think we had very good cooperation in the government, and I am very sorry that you went to break it, as you went. You went to submit this draft of the Fatherland without having an agreement. We are currently really negotiating coalitions, and in the context of coalition negotiations, we are going through all these needs, just as we are going through all these needs in the context of the debate on the state budget. We have needs for funding higher education, we have needs for people's livelihood, we also have an exceptionally difficult winter in terms of energy, in terms of energy subsidies we obviously need to take some steps. It all takes money from the state budget, and that is why it is always the whole picture that the coalition is looking at, and what was my request to you that we look at it together with all their needs. It is clear that this draft family allowance for the Fatherland is very important because it is a draft made by the Fatherland and it is very important to them. And then, if we want to reach this agreement, that means that all parties have to compromise. If it matters to them, we cannot say, as we never told you about things that mattered to you, that we simply did not do them. We were always looking for compromises, and these compromises are compromises in the sense that both sides take a step forward or a step backwards in order to reach an agreement. We don't have that deal right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U93	I will conclude on this issue and move on to the next question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U94	Thank you. Prime Minister! There are revolutionary moments in the Ukrainian war; we will soon find out whether Putin is declaring a general mobilization. It must have a lot of influence on the course of the war. After all, we hear over and over again that there is little aid for arms on the European side. We also know that Turkey is essentially preventing NATO from expanding towards Sweden and Finland. But with my question of this international palace, I would like to get here to the Baltic States and to Northern Europe. It is in this context that the economy is one of the pillars of security. And we know this very well that sanctions against Russia will change the economic structure, change transit and, in fact, very much change life here in northern Europe. Last Question Time, I touched on the subject of Rail Baltic, which is regrettably delayed. We know that there are no very big initiatives and obviously there can be no European railways, which are relatively fragmented. We know that Finns are hand-in-hand in relation to NATO's choice to Russian developments, in the sense that Russian transit will probably not be possible in the future. And we're getting to the subject we've got today. Our umbilical cord is Via Baltica, a highway corridor that's increasing its load and probably for the next decade. How do you assess this potential? We know that the subject of roads is actually taboo in Europe, because CO2 is being issued on the roads with a huge amount and therefore other economic trends have been taken. But things have changed. Could Estonia's position with the Nordic countries, with the Baltic States in the context of Via Baltica, be an issue that could actually be raised very acutely on the table and ask for European reflection on how to link this corridor into a whole and a modern one?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U95	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U96	Thank you. Yeah, very interesting theme setting. It is true that this issue of CO2 on the roads is greater than it is on the railways, and therefore the entire transport movement on the railways has been the desired objective. I agree with you that this will take time and investment, which is simply not present. We also have a situation arising from the security situation and sanctions, as you are referring to, where we need to use completely different corridors than they have so far been used. The sanctions are imposed on land transport by Russia, in fact maritime transport by Russia, which in itself also gives opportunities to Estonian companies, who have dealt with it in order to change their business model. Now, as far as this road network is concerned, it has not been discussed directly in this form. But I think in the big picture, if these corridors, the corridors change, it'll be discussed. What we have discussed with the Nordic countries in the key to different productions is that many of these large companies that have currently produced, for example, in China, because it has been economically beneficial, because of the interruption of the transport chain or because there are still major problems, are increasingly thinking about bringing their production to Europe. Here I see that Estonia has a great chance that if these transport chains change, it can also change the structure of the economy in the opposite direction. For example, large factories have said that they will consider and look for a place for their production in the very key that we are producing for Europe in Europe, not in China. In China, we produce for China. And what does all this mean for the road network? It's early to say, but I think your point is right to think about it. If this burden increases so much, it will require additional investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U97	Thank you. That concludes this issue. Let us move on to the next question. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U98	Mr President-in-Office, my question is for the Prime Minister and it concerns education in Estonian. The transition to education in Estonian is one of the priorities of both the current government and the folding coalition. And yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, we discussed a popular initiative that provided for a change in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act to direct all children moving to Estonia to study at a local Estonian-language school. This was due to the concern that there are cases, and there are not few where local authorities offer places in Russian-speaking schools and do not introduce opportunities to study in the immersion class or in the Estonian-language class. And my question is that this is not a minor issue, because I believe that one of the major problems in the transition to education in Estonian is the counter-working of local governments, whether it is in the case of school managers, kindergarten managers or teachers or otherwise in the case of meeting language requirements. What opportunities do you see that this cooperation between the local government and the state would work better and that local authorities would not work against state policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U99	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U100	Thank you. Indeed, education in Estonian is extremely important precisely because we are a small language, a small culture, and that is what we must keep. It is also a fact that children learn the language very easily when they are young. Therefore, we must start with kindergartens, so that kindergartens are in Estonian. Then there is no longer any reason for children to go to Russian-speaking schools. Interestingly, in 1922 the Russian minority in Estonia was 3.2% of the total population, by the end of the occupation period it was more than 30%. We are now seeing the same happening in Ukraine, where the Ukrainians are being deported and the Russians are being brought in. We have been through all of this ourselves, and the same war in Ukraine opens up all the wounds we have had. Actually, it might give you a chance to fix things that haven't been done. Here in Estonia we must protect Estonian language and culture. About one million people in the world speak Estonian, while some 278 million people throughout the world speak Russian, not only in Russia, but everywhere. So this language and culture are not in danger. If we live here, we must know and respect this language and culture. And we also know that children receive better education and therefore better jobs than they speak Estonian in Estonia. The concern you have raised that local authorities are working against it in certain places is a major concern. I know that the Ministry of Education and Research is thinking about different solutions here, how to still get local governments, who are schoolmasters, to follow the rules agreed in the country. A good example is that when we decided in the cabinet that the children of Ukrainian war refugees would go to Estonian-speaking schools, this is not the case. Of course, one side is that there aren't any places. But all these additional school places should be in Estonian, precisely so that we do not have more people who do not speak Estonian in Estonia. This is really very important and I know that the Ministry of Education and Research is working on a solution, how to give these guidelines to local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U101	Thank you! That concludes this issue. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U102	Good manager! Honourable Sire! I would like to talk about VAT for this reduction. Have you thought about this to help businesses, to help them pay even better wages to their employees? Does this argument matter to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U103	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U104	Thank you. It is, of course, the case with VAT that businesses do not pay VAT, because they can make payments there. This business should not help in any way, as far as they are liable for VAT and most Estonian companies are liable for VAT. VAT still mainly affects consumers and VAT reductions... Well, VAT is a very clear tax revenue that the country has and, unfortunately, the reduction in VAT does not bring such relief to those who need it most. It is clear that we are currently in a very difficult situation, because we are meeting with high inflation and slow economic growth. While traditionally high inflation is accompanied by rapid economic growth, the role of the state is always to cool down economic development so as not to boost inflation. But we are on the one hand slowing down the economy and, on the other hand, high inflation, for which there are not really many tools. Eesti Pank has also said in its opinion, most recently this week, that the state should refrain from over-subsidising subsidies or any form of tax reduction that will boost inflation, but should help those people most in need of help. These are the people with the lowest incomes, whose total consumption or the total wallet takes the most of these costs, the compulsory costs. To this end, we have also increased our income support by 33% with an additional budget so that people can manage these costs better. It is clear that we must also think about additional energy subsidies when we meet in the autumn, probably because all the estimates say that energy prices will be high next winter. The difficult times are ahead, the country has limited money, it comes from the taxpayer's pocket, not from anywhere else. That is why we have to handle taxpayers' money responsibly, help those who really have to, rather than simply share it with everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U105	I will conclude on this issue. They can't ask a question right now. Let's go. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I didn't want to talk about this barrier, but since this topic rose, I would still like to repeat that neither the Environmental Board nor the Ministry of the Environment talked about clearing the barrier there. We were talking about swelling. So there was no direct conflict between the preservation of cultural value and the migration of fish. However, there was a conflict between private interests and the migration of fish, i.e. the interest in producing hydropower in this particular place in relatively marginal quantities. But I agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the government was right to make such a decision, and I hope you will remain behind this decision. Because, according to Estonian law, this special authorisation for the use of water requested by the government cannot be granted until the compensatory measures have been implemented. And that means removing the obstacles on the three rivers of Vasalemma, Pirita and Purtse and clearing the Purtse River. Which could mean that, in the next state budget and budget strategy, we will still see 100 million investments in these activities somewhere, so that we can finally reach this desired water permit. Is that right? Do you stand by your position? Will the Environmental Board ever be able to issue this permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U107	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U108	Thank you. As you know very well yourself, having been involved in this debate, it was a very long and thorough debate not only in one sitting, but in quite a number, not only in our government, but also in the previous government. So it's been a problem that's been solved for a long time. As the Chancellor of Justice said, when considering these different interests, as I said, there was an interest in heritage conservation, there was a recreation area, or local community interest, and there was this nature conservation interest. This decision had to be made between these interests and had to be considered. It is not my personal decision, it is the government's decision, and this government's decision is well-founded. And that decision, in any case one way or the other, is better than not to decide. So that decision was made. Everything you're referring to hasn't been on my desk with this level of detail, of course, is the property of the Minister of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment. I expect that the next Minister for the Environment will also come to the government office with these issues, that these concerns, which are many in one area and another in the environment, will come to the government office with these concerns and solutions, so that the government office can discuss and, again, make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U109	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's keep going. A procedural question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have such a question that the Anti Division wasn't in the hall when his line came in, he's still not in the hall, but what surprises me is that his line only shifts forward. I think he could erase the order if he's not in the hall, and if he comes back, he'll put himself back in. I think that's what happens at the regular hearing. If you're not there, you'll be outside the line or at least at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U111	Thank you. Well, that depends very much on the manager. We had the same example of one of the members of the Riigikogu just before in this very briefing, and he was not in the Chamber either. When he finally came to the hall, that question really stayed up. So I don't see any problem. Jaak, Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is also for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! Today, however, in the headlines and in people's lives, one of the greatest concerns is. It is clear that we have a security situation as it is in the case of the war initiated by Russia, but it also has other effects, also in the economy and in prices. If, in the last heating period, we were hoping there would be some price stabilisation by spring, then frankly, this is not what we are seeing right now. Both electricity and gas, natural gas is nearly three or four times more expensive than it was a year ago. Doesn't seem to be any relief. We have also read that these issues are raised in the formation of a new coalition. I would rather ask this question: would the measures that we in the government have taken in the previous heating period to reduce energy prices, to mitigate this price increase, could they be topical in the next heating period, in the same direction? And what could be the total volume? I would remind you that, in the previous heating period from September until May, these measures took a total of between 170 and 180 million, somewhere 175 million, of which the targeted measure was only 15 million and the universal measures were, in fact, 160 million. What do you think you need to do? Because prices are already high, they do not seem to be falling, and people are still very anxious, because savings are starting to wear out because of these price increases and are going to have a difficult heating period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U113	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U114	Thank you. Really, last year we saw a prelude to this war at the prices of energy carriers. We know that Russia also manipulated the price of gas and, depending on the price of gas, the price of electricity was also very high. But today, yes, we know that the war began, and because of that it was just foreplay for everything that was coming. I very much agree with you that difficult times are ahead. As far as energy prices are concerned, we really need to take support measures in the coming winter to help people. In our common government, the measures we took were quite generous, for seven months we helped people cope with the rise in the price of electricity, gas and district heating. And it helped, we had a targeted measure for people whose income was below the median. Then we also had over the field support measure for everyone, because it really touched everyone very much. Now, yes, I agree with you, as I said, people need to be guaranteed a sense of security. In saying this, I cannot say that we can pay off all the price increases, given that, as I said, it is a very difficult winter ahead, a difficult autumn. Therefore, those who can also help themselves, wondering how they can reduce or save their energy costs, should do so. I admit you can't do all this. People with particularly lower incomes, whose consumption or consumption basket account for a very large proportion of energy heating costs, cannot do so. But yes, in answer to your question, yes, with such support measures we must come up with, but there are no specific conditions that we have agreed at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U115	That concludes this issue. Let's move on. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U116	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! If you are now afraid that the reduction in VAT on food, food is a first commodity, will be won by the richer and middle class, then I will propose a graduated income tax instead. That progressive income tax is indeed what helps people with lower incomes. They're gonna pay more than the wealthiest, which should suit you. As you know, we have once had progressive income tax, we had 16%, 24 and 33 here at the very beginning of the republic, and Mart Laar's time was raised to higher, so with lower incomes they started to pay less or with lower incomes they started to pay more and with higher incomes less. Just to make it work. A gradual income tax would make the country more coherent and socially fair. Instead, I would ask you to name one of the dozen countries that have no progressive income tax, so I can open this line: Estonia, Russia, Ukraine, Mongolia, the Highly-Kyztan. Who else is here, Hong Kong will remember that maybe you'll continue this line. Romania, Bulgaria. Go on, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U117	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U118	Thank you. This is where we have ideological differences. Your party has always stood for progressive income tax; we have stood for a uniform income tax system, precisely because the percentage is even for everyone, which means that people with higher incomes in absolute numbers suddenly pay more tax. What has been the result, then, of phasing out this uniform income tax system, is that people who go to the next step have to pay more automatically or then lose at the income tax-free minimum as it is at the moment, and it has led to people actually being very large, say, I don't know if anger is the right word, but resentment in that regard, that you see that the salary was raised, but now because I'm going to this next step or the next hump in the next place, it will eat up the income that this salary is going up. So here are the very ideological differences. We have been very proud of the Estonian tax system, precisely because we do not have many differences, we have a uniform and clear tax system that does not punish in any way when people actually start to earn more and pay more in absolute tax figures, just the same percentage. The fact that we have a tax system that does not have any differences or many exceptions means that there may be little work for tax advisors in Estonia, because the tax system is clear and simple for everyone. And by the way, in those countries where there is a very complex tax system, it is those who are richer, who are able to hire counselors who give advice on how to go either under different exceptions or by these rules. If you will allow me, I know that we have ideological differences, you are in favour of graduated income tax, I am not, and so it will probably remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U119	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U120	Thank you. I will also ask my question to the Prime Minister. First of all, I would like to help the Prime Minister a little in the sense that he has been attacked, because he dared to mention such a thing, that if he were to look very hard for the meaning of the Constitution and not follow the provision, then the President of the Riigikogu could also resign, if he no longer has the support of the majority. And that's exactly the point where the Constitution doesn't provide for it. But if I wanted to start looking for the meaning of the Constitution, I could find it. And it's very easy to test: the chairman resigns and tries whether or not there is support. But exactly the opposite is true with the government that the Prime Minister can send ministers, how to say, to the Riigikogu to rest. However, Jüri Adams, for example, has said that this even goes very well with the idea of the Constitution. At first, it was meant to be the Prime Minister who formed his team. There was not such a party-group arm that determines the composition of this government, but the Prime Minister was the one who was the center of it. So we have actually gone a little away from this idea, but we are still in the Constitutional provisions, we agree with that. But as far as the Centre Party's proposals are concerned, all kinds of VAT and things. I suggest you be very careful of them, because, first of all, I myself have lived in the happy conditions of progressive income tax, and I wouldn't want that shit back. I promise you that in Sweden, people who see this graduated income tax will yearn for our income tax system. On the other hand, I remember how the Centre Party experimented in its own time: the sales tax was such a thing, established in Tallinn. They say it's 1% more for luxury goods. They went looking for... Jaak Aab, don't interrupt! I'd like more time, because Jaak Aab keeps bothering me. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. There was also a moment where the middle party went shopping...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U121	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U122	...and saw if there were raisins in the bread or not. Rosina got... [[The microphone's shutting down.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U123	Yeah, well, how forcefully turned off your microphone, that's interesting. But in answer to the question, the idea of the Constitution really rests on the provision of the Constitution and the provision states directly how the Riigikogu receives a mandate from the Prime Minister for the formation of a government, who presents the composition of his government to the President for approval, and indeed these candidates, in no way directly, the candidates for the Minister, do not receive a mandate from the Riigikogu. As far as this issue and the income tax system are concerned, of course, I share your view that a simple, fair, clear income tax system is the best. Even if, for example, we are talking about corporate tax, the fact that we have profits untaxed, if you invest it again in your company or employees, this profit will not be taxed, it will mean that we will, in percent of gross domestic product, collect corporation tax more than those countries that have very complex systems, because there is really a possibility that companies will optimize their taxes and no one will win from it. So what is important is that people and businesses understand how the tax system works, what they pay taxes for and where the taxpayer uses its money. For this, I think it is very important that whoever is in the government is also acting responsibly with the taxpayer's wallet. It's been entrusted to the government. It is not the government's personal money, the ministers' personal money, which is distributed to people, but comes from the taxpayers' pockets. The question would be correct not to raise the question of whether, for example, you want EUR 1000 of support, but whether you want EUR 1000 of support in such a way that it will lead to a tax increase. For example, the same draft family benefits has been calculated to result in a tax increase, in the form of VAT, to 23%, for example, but I have not seen it being asked for the mandate of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U124	Thank you, that concludes this issue. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U125	Thank you. You stopped asking my question very brutally by shutting down the microphone, while Jaak Aab had interrupted me not for two seconds, but during the whole question, and my thought was completely lost. I actually lost track of the question and the purpose of what I wanted to know. And I also wanted to make a little statement. And that's what I'm gonna say. In fact, the middle party, who you are talking about graduated income tax, could you rejoice at the moment when the Reform Party is talking about needs-based subsidies. Need-based benefits are in fact backwards by taking one form of graduated income tax. This means that those earning less will receive subsidies and those earning more will pay for them with their taxes. So the church in the middle of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U126	It wasn't a procedural question. I've never noticed before that you, Mr. Valdo Randpere, are missing a clue. On the contrary, you are always very sharp, very clear. I called the bell for the first time when it was two minutes and eight seconds, and I said, please, your time is up, five to six more seconds went by, and you didn't ask me a question. So a member of the Riigikogu must be able to ask a question in 120 seconds due to our Home and Working Procedures Act. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U127	Thank you, manager. My question is to the Minister for Rural Affairs. In answering one earlier question, you mentioned the formation of a new government. Well, it's clear that a new government will be formed, and the answers will come when a new government is formed. Please also help me out of legal confusion as to what this formation of a new government is like in your eyes, what steps must be passed. At the moment, however, it is a very confusing situation that, in fact, the same government is sitting in office. When's the new one coming? And what do you do about the steps you see before you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U128	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U129	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. As the Prime Minister explained, the Prime Minister has the right, according to the constitution, to replace the members of the government, which he has actually done. This means, you could say, that there is practically a minority government at the moment and, at the same time, coalition negotiations are under way to form a new possible government. Once they have been completed, which means that the coalition agreement has been concluded, the Prime Minister indicated what actions he is willing to take at this point. Whether it needs a new mandate or not is not up to me at the moment. There are legal rooms and procedures for this. But the new government means that, if we now, as ministers, bear responsibility for the so-called second ministry, then at the moment when the new government is in place, all the ministers who will act in this government will have their own specific responsibility. And the replacement arrangement only concerns those moments when it is necessary to replace one or the other minister in accordance with the procedure, whether it relates to leave, whether it relates to an external mission or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U130	That concludes the question. Let's move on! Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would remind you that before the tax hump was introduced, we had proportional income tax in Estonia. As of today, 6 000 euros per year are exempt from income tax and all of this was deducted and increased to 20%...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U132	Please tell me, who are you asking a question to?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U133	I have a question for Maris Lauri. While renewable energy was discussed before this in the key to the green turn of the energy crisis, today we are talking about renewable energy and wind energy in terms of security. In the meantime, the legislative space has been improved so that these wind power plants can rise faster and the people they want to build near are compensated for the environmental degradation. What else could be done with legal regulations so that Estonian residents would agree to tolerate the environmental disturbance that wind farms are undoubtedly causing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U134	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U135	Thank you. Wind energy is certainly one way to cover the hole that will occur if we give up fossil fuels. Yes, in terms of the stability of the system, there must also be, for example, storage facilities or some other environmentally sustainable production capacities, which must also be dealt with at the same time. The introduction of the so-called windmill charge will certainly take away some fears and may put down certain opposition. What else could we do? What bothers people the most is that this windmill is being built close to them. Afraid of a kind of visual disturbance, fear of vibration and other such things. In this sense, it would be good to build wind farms beyond human habitats, where such a failure does not occur. And there is certainly one idea to introduce, for example, former mining areas, where people probably do not live and where the disturbance is modest. One way, for example. Then surely, if we were to build such parks, we should also look, because we actually need to act quickly and quickly, what are the planning processes? Is it possible to speed up the planning process while ensuring that all studies are carried out? But, for example, if research has already been carried out in a particular region, can it be re-used? Can certain things be dealt with in parallel? Similarly, the granting of different licenses just as well as connecting permits and building permits and so on. Should we always make them in order? In certain cases, it is certainly possible to run things in parallel, either in whole or in part, because some estimates are the same, the same procedures are carried out, the same materials are collected. Those are the odds. In addition, it is important to assess whether these parks can also be connected, to ensure that these interconnections, which we are making, where we have now run into it in a certain sense that there are well-served capacity-building options, but they are not actually being made. Such phantom requirements should go away so that those who really want to build can really build.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U136	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! To begin with, I did not quite understand your response to Mr Aab, whether the following heating period is planned to support Estonian people and companies in the same amount as last year, more or less. What could it be about, this magnitude? But I wanted to ask you, in fact, that while you are arguing about change in this hall and in the coalition negotiations, it will be decided in Europe how billions will be taken out of the pockets of the people and companies of Estonia. I'm talking about a package called Objective 55. Could you give a brief overview of the state of play of the negotiations today? Because I know they want to make these decisions in June. Will this package go to the Council as a whole and be decided as a 'package' or disbanded, and these decisions will be taken in the Council of Environment Ministers after Midsummer, each file? And has this situation somehow improved for Estonia? Because the last time we talked about it, it was still that we had to reduce the cropland by a quarter, the production of peat by a quarter, and the area of the forest by about a quarter of a million hectares. Are we still in the same position, or has this situation somehow improved, that our food security is not suffering and that jobs in rural areas are still being maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U138	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U139	Thank you. First of all, your first question, I answered Mr Aab in such a way that we do not yet have an agreement on this, but it is clear that coping with people is important and energy prices in the coming autumn and winter will be high, which means that we have to make a package that will help people to cope with these prices. But we have not yet agreed on this package, so I cannot answer in specific numbers how much it is. Now to your second question concerning this package, 'Fit for 55'. These negotiations are ongoing in Europe and are currently being debated at ambassador level. As you know, the LULUCF issue, or land use, is very problematic for us, precisely because, in fact, our objectives are in no way realistic. And that's what we've been fighting for to get better. The bad news is we're pretty alone in our fights. We have not been able to find our allies, because those who have similar problems, we are taking Finland and Sweden, have received different solutions in the past, not within this particular package. That makes our situation more difficult. But I assure you that we will continue to fight for these Estonian positions. I know these concerns as well as you do. We stand for Estonia, but this final agreement is not yet there. And if this final agreement does not exist, it will indeed come at the level of the Council, but not at this Council, which is now on Midsummer Day, it is not planned in this form, as I know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U140	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I thank you for your questions and the members of the government for their answers. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U141	Honourable Riigikogu! It is time to start the 18th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. And now, as always at the beginning of the sitting, Riigikogu members are able to deliver drafts or enquiries. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I'm giving the procedure a draft amendment to the language law. The purpose of the Act is to increase the level of fines, as both natural and legal persons do not comply with the language law in the desired quality. The payment of duty rates, which are symbolic, has become easier for some companies than for the requirements of the Language Act. The sanction provided for by law must be felt by legal persons. In the case of a company with a high turnover, fines of a few hundred or a few thousand euros do not motivate them to comply with the law. A major problem continues to be the failure of the employer to apply language requirements to the employee and other violations of the Language Act, which raises the sentence of the legal person provided for in § 36 from EUR 3200 to EUR 50000. In the case of a company with an annual turnover of at least 5 million million, the fine shall be imposed on the basis of turnover and a ceiling of up to 5% of turnover shall be imposed. Also, the enforcement rate will be increased from EUR 640 to 25000 and the possibility of a business ban in the event of a systematic infringement. And the situation has gotten worse, which I have noticed myself in the service sphere, and certainly many colleagues. I believe that there could also be a cross-party consensus here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U143	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U144	A respectable representative of the people! On behalf of the Committee on State Budget Control, I will hand over a report on the work of the previous session and the inspection committee of the previous session in accordance with the law providing for this report on the activities of the special committee. The Special Committee has worked effectively, covering a number of issues that are relevant to the functioning of the state, to budgetary management and to the public interest. And let me share with you in this Chamber, in this House, the problem of the relatively endemic issue of the recent fact that ministers have begun to fear coming to the hearings of the Commission and sending representatives, officials who are undoubtedly professionals, expressing their ideas in good faith and expressing the positions of the ministry, but this feedback in terms of political reporting is certainly also important at ministerial level, and this is a serious problem. The first question is the presence of ministers at these meetings, the second question is also giving feedback to written answers. This is certainly something that we consider important to address in our subsequent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U145	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U146	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Special Committee on Corruption, I will present an overview of the activities of the session. So, in addition to holding meetings in parallel with the State Budget Control Commission in the premises, we will have almost the same minute of this annual review. We haven't had any problems with the participation of ministers, I don't know. The Special Committee on Corruption has been working on issues during the last year, which concerns both the development and implementation of lobbying rules, the implementation of crisis measures, the implementation of conflicts of interest and declarations of interest and declarations of economic interests. In addition to discussing sector-specific drafts and dealing with individual individuals' complaints. Of these issues, I would highlight the development and implementation of rules on lobbying, for which there has been no major progress in recent years. At the same time, more or less exactly a year ago, vice Chancellors, political advisors began to review lobbying meetings and it is public. And as a result of the discussion with round tables and experts, the Special Committee against Corruption reached the proposal that the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu from the beginning of the next session, i.e. from September 2022, should start giving an overview of lobbying meetings using the same form. This rulebook is good practice for lobbyists officials and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption has also proposed to the Board of the Riigikogu that this good practice be implemented from the autumn session and that the advisers of the political groups and committees be trained before it is implemented in a uniform manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U147	No more wishes. We will decide on further processing of this one draft and two reviews in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's time to carry out a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U148	Currently 66 members of the Riigikogu registered for office.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U149	I also have one item on the agenda to give to you, one that has already become known to you in recent days. In fact, yesterday we were in the middle of the second reading of the Amendment to the Family Benefits Act Act, which was initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu, at the time of the revision of the amendments, and that is why we are moving forward today with the revision of these amendments. Mr. Mölder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U150	Thank you, Mr President. I still come back to my everyday question, that the people who withdraw from the bill. Can you tell us whether, in addition to these six Social Democrats, Lauri Läänemets, Helmen Kütt, Eduard Odines, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske, in the last 24 hours, we have decided to withdraw our signature from this bill, or to withdraw it from it in a very good way to help Estonian families and children?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U151	Thank you. If you don't do it now, no one else, as far as I know, has expressed that wish. Okay. There are no further procedural questions. Therefore, yesterday we were in the middle of where Amendment 117 was voted through and Amendment 118 needed a vote. But I have to ask if we... Break? In short, it was taken away, now we're going to the vote, or is it...? No, it is, but did we, in other words, miss the break and not vote? Wasn't away? But the break was off, wasn't it? We're going to be more specific right now. Let's get this straight. [[Voices from the floor.]] We voted on Amendment 117. You didn't? Got it. Got it. Then Amendment 118, tabled by Mr Kross and Mr Michal. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U152	Thank you, Mr President. I would also ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U153	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, Our first vote today. I would point out that we are voting on Amendment 118. I therefore put to the vote Amendment 118, tabled by Mr Kross and Mr Michal. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U155	By 21 votes to 35 and 1, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 119, tabled by Mr Kross, Mr Pillaku and Mr Aro. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U157	Before the break, Peter Ernitsa has a 30th procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U158	Good manager! Good luck voting on the Hill's proposal is, but I have a question as to when are we going to get to the Luck's Hill's 599. ... Pending the discussion of the draft Act amending the Labour Working Conditions Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. What time could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U159	Thank you. This is after we have voted through these amendments to this draft. Then we can move on to other points. It's that simple. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U160	Honourable Riigikogu! I shall put to the vote the 119th amendment, tabled by Mr Kross, Mr Pillaku and Mr Aro. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U161	In favour of 19, against 34, the proposal was not supported. Our 120th amendment is tabled by Mr Kross, Mr Pillaku and Mr Purga. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U162	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U163	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U164	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 120. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U165	With the result of 18, against 32, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 121, tabled by Mr Kross and Mr Seed. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U166	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U167	Yeah. The President did not strike the hammer to confirm the outcome of the vote on Amendment 120. [[Hammer strike.]] Now they're confirmed. Now 121. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U168	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 121. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U169	In favour of 19, against 37, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 122, tabled by Mr Kross and Ms Šmigun-Vähi. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U170	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U171	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 122. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U173	In favour of 17, against 28, the proposal was not supported. We will proceed to Amendment 123, tabled by Mr Michal. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U174	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but before voting, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U175	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 123. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U177	With the result of 20 votes against 28, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 124 has been tabled by Mr Michal, Mr Jaanson, Mr Suslov. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U178	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U179	Mr. Wheels, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U180	Thank you. I really have a procedural question that you have not asked the Reform Party Group whether it is conceivable that this may be taken a little less, that it will also reach, in seven minutes, the result of voting on the next amendment. Have you asked them a question about such a procedure, or have you not? Maybe we could take less? Every time it's ten minutes, could it be seven minutes, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U181	Thank you. The manager hasn't asked for it, but I saw Mr. Karilaid here, too, one day, asking for ten minutes. The Centre Party Group also seemed to have had ten minutes or needed ten minutes. But next time, I'm gonna... Mr Keldo has just listened carefully to this, so he will probably make the right decisions the next time. Mr. Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U182	Thank you, President-in-Office. I want to come and help Jüri Ratas, but now he's out of the hall. As a matter of fact, we have had a discussion about the length of this break, we would rather have taken a little longer, a few months or so, but allegedly the law on home and working arrangements does not allow more than 10 minutes. So we're gonna settle for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U183	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. It is good to see that you have read the Rules of Procedure, indeed, the Rules of Procedure do not allow you to take more than 10 minutes at a time. But at the same time. So it is still possible to take 10 minutes before voting on each amendment. Break 10 minutes, no sorry, can't go on break. Mr. Savisaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U184	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President. Is it procedurally possible that we group these amendments in such a way that we first take the chairman's break of 30 minutes and then make three changes in a row, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U185	Thank you. That is indeed a procedural question. The procedural answer to this question is that it cannot be done. Mr. Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U186	Now I want to help Erki Savisaar again. I somehow feel like I'm a Samaritan here right now. In fact, the Committee on Social Affairs conducted this experiment by wrapping all these amendments in a single package and voting through them in 30 seconds. Before that, indeed, each author was given the opportunity to present his or her 50 or 60 amendments within two minutes, which gave him or her a hard 0.4 seconds per amendment. So if anyone in this Chamber now wants to propose that, before the vote on each amendment, the author of the amendment present it briefly, I would be very much in favour of it. After that, it would take a break and everyone would have time to think about what he was going to propose and then vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U187	The manager is out of here on two subjects. One, first of all, what is happening in the committees, indeed, the Rules of Procedure says that the committees have great discretion to discuss matters within the Commission. However, in the form of a table of amendments, the correct material must reach the Chamber, as we see here today, that each amendment has been drafted separately. The second issue Mr Randpere had, I understand, was whether an amendment could be introduced. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this possibility. Okay. Mr. Haevalson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U188	Thank you, Mr President. The procedural question is, do you think these last three questions really applied to the procedure? Did you think those were the right questions about the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U189	Thank you. Indeed, these last three were involved in the procedure. Mr Savisaar asked if it was possible to add breaks. It's a procedural question, correct in every way. Mr Randpere asked about the Commission and, in the same way, whether it was possible to present proposals from the floor. This, too, is purely procedural. The manager answered them. Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U190	Thank you, good manager. How would he answer this question from Valdo Randpere: was this time too small in the Commission, which was given the opportunity to present these proposals, which I have to say that they were under any calculation, that this formalisation party was a very bad thing for an absolutely large majority, but did you think it was enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U191	Thank you. We all realize that 0.4 seconds is such a short time that even saying a word with it can be difficult, unless it's "no." However, as I said in reply to Mr Randper, the committees have had quite a margin of discretion on how to organise the Commission's work. And, of course, the Bureau has drawn the attention of the committees in the past to the need to allow time in the committees to present amendments. Whether it is given to one of the authors of the amendments one time in common to present all the amendments or in any other way that it is for the Commission to decide on its own internal working arrangements. Mr. Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U192	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Rene Koka that this assessment is now entirely, how to say, from the ceiling, that our amendments were poor. I'd say the bill itself is bad. It's very poorly prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U193	Well, there's no debate here!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U194	Wait, wait, I haven't gotten to my procedure yet...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U195	This procedure can go to my... Mr. Rene Chef has nothing to do with this right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U196	I asked the procedure before, criticised the procedure for this draft and the procedure for amendments in the Committee on Social Affairs, and then I received a reproof note from Siret Kotka, who is the chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee. He said, "I gave you cake. " It was true, by the way, a very good cake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U197	It wasn't procedural. Mr. Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U198	Thank you. Strictly procedural, yes. Looking at the good fellows on my right hand here, there was no disturbance to the same behaviour in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with an additional budget, but there is now a wonderful rebirth. I'd like you to approach me in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U199	Thank you. The Bureau's position has always been the same, which we have also sent to the committees. That doesn't seem to be any more procedural questions. So the intermission is ten minutes, so we go on at 15.34.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 124. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U201	In favour of 20, against 29, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 125, tabled by Mr Michal and Mr Sutrop. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U202	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U203	Got it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 125. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U204	For 15, against 30. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 126, tabled by Mr Michal and Mr Seed. Mr. Wheels, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U205	Thank you, Mr President. I left the hall for a minute, and there was this mess, the rhythm got out of hand. Now, even if they don't want to take a break or forget about it, we're ready to come and help, too, if someone forgets about it. The procedure was just to let us know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U206	Mr. Ratas, there was no confusion, the manager had everything under control. Mr. Keldo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U207	Thank you. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U208	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U209	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 126. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U210	By 18 against 36, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 127, tabled by Kristen Michal and Mart Võrguship. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U211	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U212	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U213	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 127. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U214	18 to 33. At this point, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 128, tabled by Mr Michal. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U215	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U216	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U217	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Reform Party Group is over. We are voting on amendment 128, tabled by Kristen Michal, and the commission has failed. I would like to ask for your position and your vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U218	This proposal is supported by 20 ambassadors, 31 votes against, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. 129th amendment, tabled by... Sorry, procedural, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U219	Yeah, thanks! Before going to the next vote, I'm a little confused. I understand you said that the previous amendment was tabled by Mr Michal. However, I do not see him in the Chamber either at the time of the proposal or at the time of the vote. Has something happened to Mr. Michal? Would you be so kind as to tell me? Because if his own proposal he doesn't vote himself... This is crucial for the members of the Riigikogu to know what happened to Mr Michal. (Voice in the hall: "Cleans.")
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U220	I don't know anything bad happened to him. I can see that colleagues from the party are here to vote hard and to take breaks, but yes, there is no author of the amendments themselves. But it's not unusual for us here. There's so much I can calm down that I haven't heard anything wrong. Valdo Randpere, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U221	I'm going to give you some help with the translation. What Sven Sester really wanted to ask was if you, Martin, wouldn't want to take the manager's break in 30 minutes and we'd go and find Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U222	I'm sorry, Valdo, I still have the hearing, I understand the Estonian language, that's not Sven Sester's sentence. I understand Valdo Randpere suggested taking a 30-minute break, but I'm not doing it right now. Let's get back to work. Amendment 129, tabled by Mr Pevkur, Mr Eenmaa, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U223	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U224	Yeah, ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U225	Let's get back to the hearing. The 129th amendment, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Eenmaa, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U226	The proposal is supported by 19 delegates, against 30, the proposal was not supported. 130th amendment, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Jaanson, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U227	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U228	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U229	Let's get back to the hearing. Amendment 130, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Jaanson, has not been taken into account by the commission. And the Reform Party is asking for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U230	This proposal is supported by 23 ambassadors, 31 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 131, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Järveoja, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U231	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U232	Let's take a ten-minute break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U233	We are at the 131st amendment, by Pevkur and Järveoja, which has not been taken into account by the commission. I ask you to take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U234	By 19 votes to 31, 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. The 132nd amendment, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Kannimäe, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please! I'm sorry! Peter Ernitsa has a procedure first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U235	Good manager! I have not been able to follow all these excellent suggestions for improvement. Can you tell me what the content of this excellent amendment is? Maybe everyone doesn't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U236	I am very sorry, Peter, but it is not up to me to open a debate on the content during the vote on this board. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U237	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on by the Reform Party Group, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U238	Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U239	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 132, tabled by Mr Pevkur, Mr Kannimäe and the lead committee, has been neglected. The Reform Party has asked for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U240	In favour of the proposal 21, against 32, the proposal did not receive support. Amendment 133, tabled by Mr Pevkur, Mr Keldo, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U241	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U242	Let's take a ten-minute break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U243	Ladies and gentlemen, the 133rd amendment tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Keldo, which the Reform Party has asked for a vote, has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U244	22 members are in favour of the proposal, 32 are against the proposal. It couldn't find any support. Amendment 134, by Hanno Pevkur and Signe Kivi, has been rejected by the commission. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U245	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U246	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U247	We are on the 134th amendment, the authors Hanno Pevkur and Signe Kivi and the commission have been rejected. I'm asking for your position. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U248	There are 19 delegates in favour of the proposal, 30 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 135 is the number of the amendment, the authors Hanno Pevkur and Valdo Randpere and the lead committee have been disregarded. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U249	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U250	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U251	Amendment 135, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Randpere, has not been taken into account by the commission. The Reform Party has asked for a vote. I'm asking for your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U252	The proposal is supported by 20 delegates, against 32. The proposal was not supported. Ah, Valdo Randpere, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, I would, of course, like to express my disappointment that the amendment that I had tabled did not find support. But what to do is, sometimes things go wrong in life. But I have a question. I've had an idea all this time. EKRE, whose chairman you are now, you support this bill, but is it only people in traditional marriage who receive compensation through this bill, or is it extended to other couples with children because of a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U254	These are the issues that were to be discussed during the negotiation phase. It wasn't a procedural question. Peter Ernitsa has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U255	Like Mr Randper, I have a concern that is troubling him, I also have one question: that, if thousands of very good amendments have been tabled by colleagues from the Reform Party, why does a large part of the group not support them in voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U256	This is not really a procedural issue, either, but a political question for the leadership and members of the Reform Party Group. I can't answer for them from here, of course. But let's move on. [[Sighs.]] Valdo Randpere has the procedure again. But let's stick to the procedure, okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U257	No, I meant because...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U258	No? Then I'll take the floor if you say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U259	... since Peter Ernits here asked why the Reform Party didn't vote, a few nights ago Peter Ernits sent me all sorts of text messages, that where you are Valdo, come right here, I miss you, and so on. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Now I am quite here, that was my amendment, and I voted in favour of it. And Erkki Keldo, with whom we tabled this amendment, which was, of course, a very good amendment, was also here...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U260	We're getting to the procedure!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U261	... he also voted in favour and yet Peter Ernits is not satisfied. I have this procedural question as to why Peter Ernits is still not satisfied. He's got what he wanted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U262	Valdo, there is no answer to this question in the Work and Rules of Procedure book. We go to Amendment 136, the authors Hanno Pevkur, Urve Tiidus and Andrus Seed, the lead committee, have failed. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U263	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U264	Let's take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U265	Ladies and gentlemen, We are at the 136th amendment, tabled by Hanno Pevkur, Urve Tiidus and Andrus Seed, the lead committee has not taken into account, the Reform Party has asked for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U266	The proposal is supported by 21 delegates, with 33 against. The proposal was not supported. 137th amendment, tabled by Hanno Pevkur, Urve Tiidus and Luck Pillak, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U267	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U268	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U269	We are at the 137th amendment, by Hanno Pevkur, Urve Tiidus and Luck Pillak. The Reform Party asked for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U270	The proposal is supported by 18 delegates, 33 against, and the proposal was not supported. Amendment 138, including Hanno Pevkur, Urve Tiidus and Aivar Viidik, has been rejected by the commission. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U271	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U272	Let's take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U273	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 138th amendment tabled by Mr Pevkur, Mr Tiidus, Mr Viidik. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U274	With the result of 20 votes to 47, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Now we should move on to the next proposal, but a letter has come to the table of the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Here's the letter. The Board of the Riigikogu. Statement. The content of the statement is as follows: the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party propose that today's session be closed on 20.15. Signed, yeah, signed. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 15 July 2011 So we have to vote on it. We must vote on this. Uh-huh. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group to close today's session at 20.15. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U275	With the result of 48, no one opposed, with the abstentions 1, found the proposal supported. Thank you. Amendment 139, tabled by Mr Randpere, Mr Jaanson, Mr Suslov, the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U276	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U277	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U278	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 139th amendment tabled by Mr Randpere, Mr Jaanson and Mr Suslov, the position of the commission in this regard is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U279	With the result of 16 votes to 38, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 140 is tabled by Mr Randpere, Mr Jaanson and Mr Suslov. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U280	Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas! I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U281	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U282	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 140th amendment tabled by Mr Randpere, Mr Jaanson, Mr Suslov. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U283	With a result of 16 votes to 40, no abstentions, this proposal was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 141 was tabled by Mr Randpere, Mr Eenmaa. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. And let's move on from here. Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U284	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U285	Thank you. This is a very interesting serious proposal, I support it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U286	Good fellows! The break requested by the Reform Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the 141st amendment, tabled by Mr Randpere and Mr Eenmaa, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U287	With the result of 15 votes against 36, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 142 has been tabled by Mr Kivimägi and Mr Keldo, the position of the commission being disregarded. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U288	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U289	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U290	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I am voting on the 142nd amendment tabled by Mr Kivimägi and Mr Keldo, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U291	Good fellows, score: by 14, against 36, this time there are no abstentions. This amendment was not supported by this result. Amendment 143 is tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Toomas. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. From this point on, we should move on to Amendment 144, but we cannot do this now, because, Mr Purga, you have a wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U292	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Jüri Ratas, President of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but before that I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U293	This request is for us to fulfill. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U294	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 143rd amendment tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Toomas. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U295	With a result of 15 votes against 34, no abstentions, this proposal was not supported. Amendment 144 is tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Storm. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Let's move on, Heidy Purga, to you, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted in favour of the Reform Party, and before that, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U297	Thank you. Is this request certain? Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U298	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. I shall put the 144th amendment to the vote, which has been tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Storm. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U299	The proposal was not supported by 13 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Dear colleagues, here is the situation: we still have 1047 amendments to go, so we have taken a big step forward. There's a little over a thousand left. Let's keep up the pace! Amendment 145, tabled by Mr Pevkur and Mr Võrguship, the position of the commission is to disregard this. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U300	Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas! I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group and I will take a ten-minute break before it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U301	Oh, boy! Okay, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U302	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Reform Party has ended, namely by their group. I shall put to the vote the 145th amendment tabled by Mr Pevkur and the Mart Võrguship. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U303	In favour of 9, against 37, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 146 is tabled in favour of the Luck Drop. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Peter Ernits, you have a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U304	Yeah, good manager! We've reached the end of the line, and the end of the line is the People's Luck Hill. But I'm worried that the People's Council isn't here. How are we going to destroy his creation here if he can't protect it? Maybe it's possible to send a messenger to find the Luck Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U305	Thank you. No, I'm not asking for it from the hangar. The Virgats is still our good co-worker who will help us in this Chamber room. I'd say you'd better go look for the Luck Hill in the wide world. You can't ask [virgats] for that. But it may be that a little break will be taken here for meditation, and then the Luck Hill may come to the hall. I can't tell you that. And we're headed for you, Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U306	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to Mr Pillak to be voted, and before that, I would also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U307	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U308	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U309	Mr President! This time, I was very fond of your indifference to Peter Ernits' concerns. He was looking for the Luck Hill and didn't find it, but you didn't allow him to use the hangar to find it. Would you give him permission to find Luck himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U310	That's a permit I can't give. I understand what you're asking for now, but if they find our good co-worker Luck Hill in the wide world, that's great. And I, on the contrary, am grateful to Peter Ernits for his concern for his colleagues here. Throughout these various sessions, he's been texting, asking, "Where are you?" and gave information, fresh: "Come into the hall! Your amendment is. " So I say he's done this kind of community service, Mr. Ligi. A procedural question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U311	Thank you very much, Chairman. In fact, Mr Peetri's actions really deserve to be recognised and what you have said is absolutely appropriate. But, in principle, one could also examine whether a colleague has found his happiness, because if he is dedicated only to his colleagues, his personal happiness may be lost. Could you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U312	I say we respect the names of all our colleagues. And when we talk about happiness, we all need that happiness, everyone in this country. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U313	Thank you, good manager. It's a good thing my colleague Jürgen Ligi is trying to pimp me out, but I can tell you that I am really unhappy right now because there is no happiness, and we are all unhappy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U314	Thank you. I will be honest with you that if someone is unhappy and perhaps indeed Mr Near takes, he has a great long experience here in the Riigikogu, you can speak to and be comforted, and you will be happier. A procedural question, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U315	Thank you. I actually have a problem. My problem is, what Peter Ernits is unhappy about now. Why don't you elaborate on that and we'll find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U316	Yeah, I asked you to help good Peeter, who has more experience in the Riigikogu. It's not good at all if any of us here are unhappy. We are trying to be in a happy mood, in a positive mood, I think we are on the move, if I am not mistaken, Peter said that, too, towards the finish line, it already seems, already in a bird's eye, this last amendment seems to be 1191, so let's keep a positive line. Urve Tiidus, procedural question. What's going on now? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U317	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Guys, this conversation you had started with the name of a particular Member of ours. Yesterday, we were arguing about having a last name here that we were using our first and last names correctly. And wordplay is charming, of course, but maybe not now at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U318	Yeah, thanks! That is what I have pointed out, I think, three procedural questions ago when I said that the name is always dignified and it is not worth saying or doing badly about the name, I think, irony. This has been the case in recent days not only in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. So let us maintain a respectful attitude toward our fellow workers and fellow citizens. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U319	Good manager! I'm happy, but we're miserable, because happiness isn't here with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U320	Thank you. Now, but now we are at 146 amendments, tabled by Mr Hillak, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U321	With the result of 13 votes to 35, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 147, tabled in favour of Mr Hillak, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, and before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U323	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U324	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Reform Party has ended. I shall put the 147th amendment to the vote. This has been presented by the Luck Hill, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U325	With a result of 12 votes against 39, no abstentions, this proposal was not supported. Amendment 148 is tabled in favour of the Luck Hill; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U326	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Reform Party Group, and before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U327	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U328	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. Peter Ernits, trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U329	Yeah. Good manager! We have now come close to the finish, and there is still no Luck Hill, but among us is my colleague Heiki Kranich, who is a classic of obstructionism, a living classic, and we do not have Arvo Junt here. Wouldn't it be possible to just give him a word to say a little bit about how this thing we've come to... To date, we have wasted 24 hours and 30 minutes of good colleagues in the Reform Party, but would it be possible to give a few minutes to our living good classic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U330	The answer is no. Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 148. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U331	In favour of 10, against 37, the proposal was not supported. Now, there is the 149th amendment tabled by Mr Pillak. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U332	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to Mr Pillak to be voted, and before that, I would also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U333	Can the President propose to take eight minutes, so we can also have the vote? 20.15 was the end of [the session]. [[A voice from the hall.]] Break eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U334	Amendment 149, I shall put it to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-15_U335	With the result of 12, against 38, the proposal was not supported. It's 8:14 and 30 seconds, which means we have 30 seconds left until the end of the trial. Thank you for this lovely evening, and I wish you luck. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
