ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U1	Hello, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on European Day. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Indrek Saar, please! Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall. There's too much noise in the hall, the trial's already begun. Please, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good work week! On behalf of the Social Democrats, I hand over the draft, which is the decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic. Its content is the introduction of more favourable value added tax (VAT) for organic production. This issue has been discussed repeatedly in society. The arguments, of course, are understandable. This must be done to keep our people healthy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you! To preserve the health of our people and to preserve our environment, but there has been another very important argument here in recent months why we are doing this today. Inevitably, about two thirds of the mineral fertilisers imported into Estonia have so far come from Russia. Just as we understand today that we need to reduce our dependence on Russian fossil fuels, it is equally reasonable to look at it in other areas. Since the dependence of mineral fertilisers on Russia has been, one can say, significant, there is now an additional reason to encourage organic farming. This can be done very well by reducing VAT, for example, to 5%. We know that Latvia recently made a similar decision concerning local vegetables and fruit. The result was that the price really fell by 88%. Although it is claimed that it is mostly eaten by merchants and producers, Latvia's experience confirms that most of it actually reached the final price. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U3	I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U4	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. The first draft law amending the Fertiliser Act, the Chemical Act and the Product Compliance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Employment Contracts Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U5	There's no more calls. Dear colleagues, I have adopted three drafts on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Now we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U6	80 members of the Riigikogu registered, no 21. Let us now begin the preparation of the voting on the agenda. Can we go to the vote? Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U7	Yes, thank you, good Chairman! When I look at our agenda, it was somewhere that the Minister of Education was reporting the affairs of the Minister of Social Affairs, Labour or Defence, or which minister he is there, I did not get it. Is this a customary practice? Draft Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act 611.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U8	Thank you. Answer: There is no normal practice, but it has happened. Indeed, at the moment in this draft law, the government has asked the Minister for Education and Research to be replaced by the Minister for Social Protection at that time. So it's happened anyway. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Today... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This morning is such a rare moment when the hall is crowded for some reason, the coalition has also appeared. But I understand they want to register. But when the bill debate is taking place, the hall is empty and the hearing behind it is pretty good. But maybe for this period, if, let's say, the coalition ambassadors are in this hall, you'll turn it up, so you'll have to say the back, because let's say it's just going down, is it possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U10	Thank you. You come to my aid, I will try to make sure that there is silence in the hall, that we always respect the waitress and those who wish to listen. And that is the task of the President, so I will also try to take this issue into account in this sitting. But this registration is already over, the presence check was off, there's 80, there's 21. But really, I also said there's too much noise in the hall in the meantime. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U11	Thank you, good Chairman. My concern is that if we have, say, Question Time here and someone is replacing the Prime Minister, we ask for something, we get the answer that I have unfortunately not been briefed on it, and there will be this discussion. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How much can it be prepared at all by the Minister in the second field, so that we do not receive these answers all the time in this Chamber, that, unfortunately, I do not know how to answer this question, but we will send questions in writing afterwards? Would it be possible to push it forward, until the real minister gets better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U12	Thank you. To be honest, I do not know why there is no Minister for Education and Science. I have not said this, but he has been informed in good time, and I believe he is also preparing this item well. Mr. Ligi, you had a procedural question, didn't you? [[Jürgen Ligi answers from the floor.]] Really? [[Jürgen Ligi answers from the floor.]] Signal with your hand and then you can give answers if you want through procedural questions. Okay, but now we're at the vote, and, uh, good colleagues, because you agreed that there was no hall call... It could be shorter. Then I vote on the approval of the agenda for the 14th working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. Dear colleagues, I am interrupting the vote. Procedural question, Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U13	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U14	Jaak Juske, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I understand it's a new week, you're on a roll, but don't hit that hammer so hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U16	Thank you. Paul Woodland, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a question here about Thursday, May 12. The first item on the agenda is the proposal to the Government of the Republic, and I think it is a matter of understanding, I understand. But what law are they planning to change, or why is there a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U18	Thank you. Because, as far as I know, this has come from a legal assessment, but also from the Commission's own decision. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U19	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U20	Dear colleagues, I ask for silence in the Chamber, otherwise I do not hear a procedural question. Please, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U21	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is a situation where Siim Pohlak and I are completely in the loop, asking each other what Mr Hillak said, there is nothing to be heard. But I'd really like to know. Maybe you can turn up these microphones or radios a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U22	Thank you. I understand that Luck on the Hill had just snapped into the finger by accident and there was no procedural question. He was surprised at it himself. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U23	Yeah. I specifically address the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu with a topic that I have raised here before, and which is currently also a subject. Please find the money. Please find the money to fix the sound system in this hall so you can hear the whole room. There are excellent ambassadors here who speak with a very clear and loud voice, and there are those who think that when they're hanging around in their own face, they can hear the whole room because the amplification is in the back. But unfortunately, there's no leverage, so that's a chronic problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U24	Thank you, good questioner! I consider this to be a procedural question of your question, and I agree that this is a problem in this Chamber. Sound out. Can this be solved? Yes, it is certainly the task of the governing board of the President of the Riigikogu to find these resources in the wider negotiations. But I agree that the sound question is a problem here. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U25	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to know when it's gonna be. Because we're swimming here with Siim Pohlak like this, I don't know where, in unknown waters, we're not getting any information. And then, as long as the coalition ambassadors in this room, we don't understand anything at all. But then, when the hall gets empty, which usually happens all the time, we still get the chance to understand something here. So when are you gonna be able to fix this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U26	Thank you. Sometimes it seems to me, Mr Grünthal, that you are the best informed member of the Riigikogu, because you have the most procedural questions. But when? At the end of the year, at the earliest, when the Riigikogu discusses the budget for the following year. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U27	Yeah, good manager. It's a procedure, isn't it? You said the problem is that the back doesn't hear well because the amplification is like a nad. We're about to start working on an extra budget with a lot of millions. Has the Board of the Riigikogu thought about finding a few hundred thousand to solve this urgent problem already?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U28	Thank you. No, it's not. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Actually, there's already been a number of...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U30	Good questioner, really, you have a procedural question like everyone else. Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall. I very much ask for silence so that we can hear what concerns we have here regarding microphones and sound. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Paul Woodland, please! Take it easy now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U31	Thank you, good manager. In fact, there have already been repeated references in this Chamber, and it is very well-founded, in the sense that we have good audibility needed, because this work must be of every quality here. If there is a problem even that we do not hear, we do not see, we do not understand, then it will certainly affect quality. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So I have a suggestion: why don't we take a half-hour break, a half-hour break, try to dim this system here in such a way as to be heard everywhere, test and test and then continue the discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U32	Thank you. Has it been tested, in half an hour nothing will be dimmed here. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U33	Yeah. Since there was talk of hearing, I would procedurally report that hearing aids can otherwise be applied through our health care system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U34	Thank you for this fresh information. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U35	Yes, I will continue with my previous question. I have a proposal because it seems that the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu is somewhat inconsistent about where to get the money and when to get the money. However, since we have an additional budget procedure, perhaps we would have foreseen certain amounts in the supplementary budget so that we would increase the Riigikogu's membership by, for example, ten ambassadors, who would be Ukrainian war refugees, and then we would certainly find the money right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U36	Thank you. That's not the question I consider to be a procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U37	Thank you, good Chairman! Now, if you visually process the remote control we have on this table, there's this place under this lamp with some pretty serious speaker features. I think it might be a speaker. Maybe that's why it's not because it really isn't coming. Do you have any idea if that speaker ever worked? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And would it be possible to turn it on, let's say, for the hearing? Then it would help improve the sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U38	Thank you. I see you looking for such an engineering-technical solution, and I am sure to let the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu know that if there is an update on the sound and strength of the sound system, you will also be involved in the expert analysis. Really, what you see is whether or not this is really the case, I don't know what to say right now, but this seems to be the right direction. Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U39	Thank you! I am very pleased that you have given us such a hopeful future that perhaps by the end of this year or by the beginning of next year we will have a new sound system. My heart's about to jump out of joy. But as long as this question of money and repair is being developed here, I have such a simple request: perhaps it would be possible to simply turn this volume button up so that it is better to hear from here, because I think all the coalition ambassadors who speak here are pure gold and gold must not be wasted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U40	Thank you. We'll do our best. Let us now try to come back to the vote again. Can we go to the vote? [[They say yes in the hall.]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 14th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U41	With the result of 78 votes against 2 and 1 abstention, the agenda is confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U42	Let's start working on Monday's agenda. The first item is the re-negotiation of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens. Good fellows! Before we go to the debate, let me briefly present the procedure for this procedure. Quiet in the hall, please! This time it's next. This is due to § 113 and 114 of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. First, the presentation by Tõnis Möldri, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be up to 20 minutes, then there will be a round of questions for members of the Riigikogu and one oral question may be submitted to the rapporteur. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Then there are negotiations which only take place on the motives for which the President of the Republic has failed to declare the law. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. Then there will be a vote, a majority of the votes cast is required here. A law which the President of the Republic has failed to declare shall be deemed to have been re-accepted in its unaltered state by the same majority as required for the first adoption of that law. Secondly, if the Riigikogu fails to adopt the law in its unaltered state, the law will be processed in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. What does that mean? Submission of amendments, second reading and so on. The commission is the same as the draft law before the Riigikogu, in this case the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If we go to the vote, the law demands that the following be put to the vote: who is in favour of adopting the law unchanged? So the Riigikogu ambassador must give his sense and assessment. I now ask Tõnis Möldri, member of the Constitutional Committee, to act as rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, at its meeting on 3 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed again the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens. As we know, Parliament has dealt with this draft here for a long time, adopted it as a law through parliamentary processes, but we also recognise that the President has not announced it, or has taken advantage of the opportunities that the law gives to the President on this matter. As I said, in our committee we discussed this, and perhaps it is appropriate to first mention some of the comments made by the President of the Republic on the decision of 21 April concerning the fact that the President really did not declare this law adopted by the Riigikogu on 11 April. It refers here to different sections, including § 3 (1) of the Constitution, according to which state power is exercised solely by virtue of the Constitution and by virtue of the laws which are compatible with it. Similarly, it refers to § 104 (1) of the Constitution, according to which the procedure for the adoption of the Act is laid down by the Rules of Procedure Act. The procedure for the adoption of laws is laid down in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. As a result, the law must be adopted on the basis of this law and the Constitution. In this decision, the President has written a little bit more about why he sees that the Riigikogu, according to his assessment of the Riigikogu, once again I say that this is the President's assessment of the rules of procedure has distorted the parliamentary decision-making process and that part of the members of the Riigikogu has essentially been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the law, as the rules of procedure result in the final vote at the third reading of the draft law and the members of the Riigikogu and political groups have no opportunity to submit amendments to the text of the draft law. If, at the end of the second reading of the draft, this text could be amended on the grounds that the text would thus be brought into line with the actual will of the legislator, it would create the possibility of a significant distortion of the parliamentary process. The President in his letter indicates that he considers it necessary to discuss and decide again the law amending the Aliens Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 11 April and the Act granting international protection to an alien in the Riigikogu and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This is Mr Karis' letter to Parliament, which he sent to us on 21 April. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had a debate on this issue, and we had also been invited by representatives of the President's Office, a legal adviser and an internal adviser. But perhaps I will begin my procedural review today with the words of my good colleague, Kalle Grünthal. Kalle said such an idea, which certainly adorns this debate in this Chamber, and we should all be able to get out of it, namely: if a person loses money, he has not lost anything, if a person loses health, it is irreversible, but if a person loses honesty, he has lost everything. Those were the words of a good colleague and it is good to move forward with this procedure. First of all, we really gave the floor to the representatives of the President's office, who, as I read earlier, referred briefly to these reasons, which the President has found necessary to state. They really concern procedural problems, not the substance of the law. I think this, too, is important for this Chamber, once again, the President is not complaining about the substance of the law, but is talking about purely procedural problems. Indeed, the President had a difficult decision to make, because it was clear that they thought it was a mistake, but at the same time it was nothing that the President could take into account. Perhaps it was based on what kind of change was made and whether or not it would come into line with the rules of procedure. This is where we went on with Parliament's debate, or rather the Commission's debate. There was another change in the Commission's third-reading debate, which also concerns changing the date of war. As everyone knows, between the second and third readings, the beginning of one paragraph, which speaks of the date of war, was also made very different. The representatives of the Registry had a specific question as to whether the President had also looked at this issue, whether he had not noticed the existence of this problem and whether the focus was solely on the subject to which the President referred in his letter, namely the words 'close relative' and 'husband'. The President's representative replied that the fact that this issue was not mentioned in the President's decision. This does not mean, however, that it was not or was not considered important. This amendment was considered, however, as they considered the share of the relative and the spouse to be the most clear, it was sufficient that the decision be formalised in this form and that they did not consider it necessary to carry out any further analysis. Members of the Commission also asked that this was a serious situation, as they considered the parliamentary procedure to be sacred. If steps are to be taken back from the parliamentary procedure, everyone can soon declare himself a legislator and start making laws in Estonia. And then we pointed out that some of the precedents of the previous presidents, which, according to the President, have been left out of procedure in breach of the procedure, have violated the rules of procedure, which relate precisely to the fact that such substantial amendments have been tabled at second reading. The president has assessed that the second reading of this draft should have been interrupted in order to allow for further substantive amendments. The representative of the President's Office replied that the power of rejection has indeed been sought to give substance and has been debatable for a long time. Different presidents have had different handwriting here. The Supreme Court has also assessed it, each time this complaint has been different, but really, especially by browsing the materials of the Constitutional Assembly, the role of the President is precisely to assess the quality of this particular law and then to evaluate it accordingly. In addition, he explained that if there is a situation where the law is adopted in the same form, the President may not always have reason to turn to the Supreme Court, because the President can only turn to the Supreme Court if he finds that the law is contrary to the Constitution. Perhaps when the President says that Parliament should process this law again, this does not mean that it is an immediate anti-constitutional bill. There was also a question in the Commission that, indeed, the President can exclude the law only if it is an unconstitutional one and can only appeal to the Supreme Court, which is assessing it. The question now was whether the President considered it to be a procedural problem or an unconstitutional problem. What exactly is the position of president? The representative of the President's office replied that the President had to rely on the law in force, and he felt that the President had largely achieved his veto objective procedurally in the sense that, if it goes through Parliament's plenary again, perhaps the same debate that we have here today, it is significantly different from the third reading, and that does not automatically mean that the arguments that the President had when he did not declare for the first time, will be competent even as soon as we come back to this voting procedure and Parliament will take this decision. Then the president actually has a white paper, and he's gonna have to start redecorating it. Members of the Commission pointed out this: it is important that all laws in Parliament are dealt with in accordance with the standard techniques. This is certainly an important process in the whole legislative process, and the law must go through a specific path that is regulated by our home and working procedures. The question is that this whole process of legal proceedings has been a perverse one of our members of the Commission thought so, and this was not in line with good lawmaking practice. The representative of the President's Office said that it is really important here to resolve the substantive issues in this procedure, firstly, and secondly, the procedural party. As the President said in his letter, he does not have any complaints about the substance of the draft, but has complaints about procedural issues. So, in this sense, it is worth talking here about those requirements, which specifically concern the procedure, and then it is necessary to assess whether or not this is proportional to the breach of the Constitution. Then one of the members of the Commission expressed the hope that the President would continue to analyse the laws that would be adopted and for which a majority would be required for adoption. And we often have these disputes in this House, perhaps they concern whether a draft decision or draft law requires a majority of the composition of Parliament or simply requires a majority of the number of people present in the Chamber in Parliament. The Commission was then also drawing attention to this particular mistake, i.e. either a spouse or a close relative. There were Members of the Commission who thought that this error had been noted, and this debate, however, came out quite acutely in this third reading phase in the Chamber, but it was precisely with the majority of the votes and political will that this violation of the constitution, which the Members of the Commission had actually pointed out earlier, was pushed through. In addition to this, has the President not really noticed that this could be a violation of the Constitution and not just a breach of the procedural rules? And really, the representative of the President's Office said that this is one very important paragraph here to read out, that in legal theory there is a really interesting question, which is a violation of the Constitution and which is a legal consequence in the form of unconstitutionality. These are actually two different things. The Constitution provides for procedural procedures, which means that procedural rules must be observed and, in this sense, any violation of the rules of procedure is, as if, a violation of the Constitution. However, any unlawfulness is a violation of the Constitution as a result of § 3 of the Constitution, according to which state authority must be exercised on the basis of the Constitution. The second question is whether any violation of the law, including the violation of the Constitution, will lead to legal consequences in the form of the constitutionality of the law and its repeal. Once again, in order to understand: the procedural problems to which the President refers, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also acknowledges that there may have been problems, but these errors may not be specifically constitutional, precisely in the light of our existing laws and regulations. The question then was whether the President, by signing his decision on 21 April and before that, had consulted some of the lawyers in private law or the Chancellor of Justice in order to form such a specific opinion. The answer was that the President really did not consult any other bodies, but the President's office did examine the previous practice and consequently decided to make that decision. Then it was also examined that, if the President now looked only at this aspect, which specifically concerns the question of 'close relative versus spouse', would the President have any further procedural problems if the President looked at this law even more broadly. Indeed, the personal opinion of the representative of the President's office was, I stress, that it was his personal opinion, that he really sees that there may still be some problems in this law, but still, when Parliament passes its second round, the President still has a white page and the President must start to fill it again if he has any reproach for our parliamentary processes in this legislative process. It was also pointed out that two things have now been focussed on, namely the replacement of one word and the definition of the beginning of war. These are certainly important technical clarifications. However, the wider problems are seen here, and the President must be commended for following very clearly and precisely what Parliament is doing and what are the specific positions. There was also talk about the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. In fact, we in this Chamber today, as well as in the Commission, should have focused precisely on the procedural problems, not on the substance of this draft. But really, since we still had a lot of committee members who thought that we could look again into this bill, we did. I'm not going to read these facets to you here. But the chairman of the committee was kind enough, and the majority of the Commission had agreed that it really must be looked at again in this draft, that suddenly we will find something here that we have not yet been able to do with these three readings. At that time, the views of some members of the Commission were set out here. I'd like to sum them up a little bit more like this. There was a very large number of members of the Commission who thought that this was a poor draft, both in terms of substance and form, and that it was a poor draft procedurally, and there was another large number of members of the Commission who thought that such debates were very strongly politically charged and that this was not a substantive debate in that sense, but whether or not the draft is attractive or not technical matters. In line with this debate and listening a little to the effects of this draft, we have reached the following decisions, which I think are also important. Perhaps to propose that the draft law be re-examined on the agenda of the plenary today, 9 May. Why today, Monday? The question is, however, that our turn makes provision for this draft to be dealt with as soon as possible in the large Chamber of Parliament, so we are also here on Monday during the first working day of this procedure. Secondly, support the re-adoption of the Aliens Act sent back by the President of the Republic to the Riigikogu and the amendment of the Act amending the Act on the Grant of International Protection to an alien. Here indeed was the vote in committee: 5 in favour, 4 against. And the decision was to take him back unchanged. The third decision was to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to represent the lead committee here, and there was also a vote. So, in short, this is a brief overview of what our committee is doing. I see there are a lot of questions, so I'll try to answer them as I please. But briefly, once again, it is important to understand that today's debate should focus primarily on the process of proceeding and not on the content of this bill. That's how I figured it out. Yeiseks, I understood the President's reference and, in the course of our committee's debate, it was pointed out that the arguments with which the President has rejected this draft law today may not automatically be transferable to his second decision, which he must take if Parliament adopts this law unchanged, but in which case he must reconsider his arguments. He can also freely appreciate it so that the debate that we are having here today will undoubtedly enlighten us all more, and then every Member will be able to make wiser or better decisions from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U44	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Let's get started. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Quite a lot of interesting and strange facts were heard. You started by saying that this bill has been in the process for a long time. I'm saying it's actually wrong. Long ago, this bill stood in the committee drawer, even for so long that you were able to be a minister, come back and change the committee. This whole time this bill was standing, there was no procedure. Then there has been a place in Estonian politics, we all know, on a white sweater. But you actually referred to the white paper several times. Why don't you fill that term out for us, too? What does this white leaf mean? Then this is: you said that the President's Office was explained, that they tried to give content to rejection. It is as if there had never been a will to reject, then they tried to give and justify it. But I have a question. Let us say, now this debate is taking place today. But in what way or how can I still make substantive amendments to this draft, as required by the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U46	Thank you. Well, I understand that every Member should have one question in this procedure, but there were several. But I'll answer everyone anyway. First of all, in my opinion, our home and operating procedures provide that if the draft is kept in a drawer, it still means that the draft is pending. So I think we can say here that it was still a long procedure. Now it's about the white paper inside and that last question. I say once again that the President, if he makes these decisions and decides not to declare the law, he must undoubtedly justify it. It is precisely the reasons that the President has now written down that do not automatically go on to this phase of the Treaty if we now adopt the law again in Parliament and the President has to assess whether he is declaring the law or not, that does not mean that he can automatically move forward with the same arguments. The president needs to appreciate that. And the third option is that if the President sees here a violation of the Constitution, he can turn to the Supreme Court. But once again, as I referred to here, everything we have done here may not automatically be unconstitutional. There may be some procedural problems here and it is undoubtedly possible to resolve them in today's debate. Now what has been our opportunity to make further amendments here, even now that the President has not announced the law, there are different possibilities. Today, Parliament is proposing a decision to adopt the draft unchanged. If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had taken a different decision, it would have been possible to return this draft to the second reading phase and in that case the deadline for amendments could have been set. I do not even know whether it is possible to make a competitive proposal in today's parliamentary process, which was the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the political groups can make different decisions and proposals to vote. But I guess that's what our procedure shows. And you'll be able to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U47	Yeah, it's true that there is one question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U48	Thank you, good Chairman and good waitress. The President has formed his opinion and made his decisions. And I realized that the representatives of the President's Office also claimed or admitted in the Commission that there might be more problems in this law. However, again, as you said, the Commission has decided to adopt the draft unchanged. Perhaps we know that the violation of the Constitution has been pushed through once and that it has been processed again in its unaltered state means that today you are trying to repress this violation of the Constitution. You claim that the President is able to take some other position in relation to this law. I ask why you put the President of the Republic of Estonia in such a stupid situation, basically making a fool of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U49	Thank you. Well, first of all, it is our principle of separation of powers that we certainly do not tell the President in advance of what the President has to decide. I think that if we made this decision on 11 April too, we certainly did not want to put the President in an uncomfortable position in any way in this Chamber. It is a completely normal process for the President to carry out quality control every time he declares the law. The President has assessed it once again: he has assessed it and, in his view, this has been a procedural infringement. He chose not to declare that law. This does not mean that it is automatically an illegal act. Once again, the President stressed that he did not have any objections to the substance, but precisely to the procedure. And once again, your complaint here was that there might still be problems in this bill, and I can say from this side that there may not be any problems yet. Well, it's the President's responsibility to evaluate it himself, and that's the second time he's got a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U51	Good manager! Dear waitress, Tõnis, if we were to marry you, we'd be husbands, but not relatives in any case. I don't have a plan. If you look at who's related, it's fathers, mothers, sisters, aunts, toys, wars, cousins, uncles, even thunders. But the tribesmen are husband and mother-in-law, and the cuckoo and the chastity, and the nazi and the lang, and so on. These are so different things. How can you put such things in the pot and say it's such a little technical thing? A man is not a relative, and his wife is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U52	Thank you. First of all, as regards your introduction to this question, I will not comment on that. Although I know that your parliamentary group has had this occasion, you have also made proposals on this point. But I really hope, Mr. Ernits, that you won't have any more thoughts about me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U53	I'll cut in for a second. As I recall, this proposal, which you refer to, was a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U54	Yeah. Yes, but my message to Mr. Ernitsa was that it would certainly not be successful in my case. Coming back now to the question of whether these are different concepts, indeed, if we take apart the different paragraphs of this draft text in this particular text, we see that it is intended that it is still a very different set of principles in this regulation, which specifically concerns the spouse and spouse's possibilities and what is a close relative, and his or her possibilities within the framework of this draft. So, in my opinion, this difference comes out very clearly from the explanatory memorandum and from other places as well. The idea of this draft has not been in any way to draw a synonym or equal sign between these two words. So we have dealt with these two words differently, but we have to admit that there have been linguistic problems that we really tried to change here in the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U55	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Not only are there linguistic problems in this draft, but this draft itself represents one major problem and its handling in exactly the same way. The purpose of this draft is still to make Estonia an open state in a way that any misfortune of the world can enter here. But the fact that you bring it back to the legislator in its unaltered state, is it due to the determination of this unfortunate government or the lack of development?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U57	Thank you. Once again, the President also pointed out in his letter that he did not have any objections to the substance of the draft. And I think it's a very important sentence here in the big hall. Now, on the substance of the draft. I still have to admit that I rarely see such, say, approval from trade unions and business organisations. They unanimously say that they are looking forward to the adoption, approval and swift implementation of this bill. I do not share your position here where you say that third-country nationals can come to Estonia very easily to live and work or study here. I see that this draft, very clearly, still delineates who can come here and on what grounds, and makes the very many conditions under which people arrive here today considerably tougher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U58	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I watched, patiently waited 17 minutes and 36 seconds for empty crap, 17 minutes and 36 seconds for water to mow in order to justify a bill that actually destroys Estonia. Rumours that some entrepreneurs are waiting and demanding to see, the entrepreneur is looking at his own business, but our task here is to look at the whole country and in the long run. Don't you think it's such a manifestation of idiotism if you repeat the same procedure and think it's going to be another result? Well, now that the president announces it, I don't know, we're idiots or he's an idiot, either. Because what you're doing right now is just embarrassing. I also warn the current coalition that you are consistently pursuing a policy that will bring politics back to the street. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If it is not possible to make a policy in the structures set up for this purpose, then the policy will go to the street. I don't have a question, I just wanted to say that it's embarrassing...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U60	Yeah. Dear colleagues, we are now in the round of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U61	Thank you. I saw that you took exactly 1 minute and 17 [seconds], right? I got 17 minutes. I know that during the negotiations, it is still possible for each of us to make 5 + 3 speeches, so you have this opportunity. Now, the word that you used threateningly both at the address of the President and at the address of some Members of Parliament, I do not share your position here. I think that all people here can make a decision according to how they see the substance of this bill necessary. As I said, there are political groups in this Parliament who see the need for this bill, and there are groups that do not see it. This is actually a substantive debate and it is a political decision and this decision has been supported by a majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U62	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We sat together in the Commission and it turned out very clearly in the Commission that, despite the fact that the catalogue of problems found by the President is considerably larger than what the President has pointed out in his letter as one-off. It became clear that, in principle, the President can now point out these other shortcomings in the new procedure. Now, as a representative of the Commission or as a representative of a party, have you examined the size of this catalogue or how many other problems the President found, what you should be preparing for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U64	Thank you. I would like to emphasise once again that this was not the President's opinion, but the personal opinion of the President's office. It's in the record here. Now, once again, if the President finds any shortcomings in this procedure, if he finds any problems in this draft, then the President will be able to assess when this draft comes to him after the end of the current debate in Parliament and the vote again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U65	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U66	Thank you. Well, I think there's been a lot of eloquent talk here that can't hide the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs broke the law for us, the great hall broke the law for us. Parliament was actually put to shame, the President was put to it, and it is not something we could argue about, either way and that the estimated question. It was known in advance that such a procedure would violate the law. There was a long debate about it here, there was a debate in the committee, there was a debate about it in this big hall, it was known in advance, and it was just made numb. The committee was led by Toomas Kivimäe, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and committed a large hall from the coalition side. In my opinion, neither Parliament nor the Commission has the right to break the law. In my opinion, instead of ramming it again right now, it is necessary to ask who is taking responsibility for the violation of the law. I have a question: has it been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs needs a new chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U67	Thank you. My standing in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is certainly not that long. I guess these discussions have been in advance, but I do not remember that we would have had a similar debate in recent months during the procedure for this draft. I think that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has implemented these thoughts and principles exactly here, as he has accepted or as the will of the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been. I know that during the procedure of this bill, the lawyers of this house who reached a slightly different conclusion than the lawyers of the President's Office have also been consulted. And I say again: at the moment, this is a dispute where it cannot be said in black and white that one party is wrong and the other is not wrong. There are, I think, significantly more colors. And, in the course of today's debate, these colours will become considerably clearer for everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U68	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U69	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! You mentioned as an introduction the idea of gold that if a person loses respect, he's lost everything. What do you think, if today, for example, the coalition, despite these serious accusations, approves of this, would the coalition be subject to the fact that it has, like, lost respect? Or did you mean that if the president dares not declare it, he's lost respect? Or is it the other way around that the president comes along with the coalition and then loses respect? Who's gonna lose that respect today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U70	Thank you. First of all, it was not my thinking, it was Mr Kalle Grünthal's thinking. And it wasn't "respect," it was "honesty." Honesty. When a person loses honesty, he loses everything. It is simply because Mr Grünthal, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, referred to this idea two or three times in the committee, I considered it necessary for me to read out this point during this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U71	A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U72	I would like to point out that the speaker is making a completely unfair statement to us here, twisting the facts and claiming that there has been no violation, even though it is clear to all minded people that there has been an infringement. Therefore, he has also lost our respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U73	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. The entire content of this failed draft cannot be included either in a one-minute question or in an eight-minute speech. I was not present at this committee session, either, which you have now presented here. But you argued that the Commission was based in its debate on the procedural, not substantive, nature of the President's complaints. And apparently the president's representative confirmed that. You know, there is simply no such possibility for this draft, because the law provides that if linguistic or formal changes are made after the second reading, then it is procedural. If substantive changes are made, the law will be broken. In this case, the President points out that substantive changes have been made. If there were no changes in substance, the President would not have been able to send it back either. So that's exactly what these problems are. Would you tell me how it is possible to interpret the matter the way you discussed in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U75	Thank you. Well, first of all, I read here the sentences that the representative of the President's Office told us at the committee. Absolutely, the President, by making a decision not to declare the law, must also be based on this procedure, the procedure laid down in the Constitution, which gives him the opportunity not to declare the law. Once again, the President admits that this law is, in his opinion, problematic in this form, but he does not complain about the substance of this law, but specifically about the procedure. This is what I referred to here several times. Perhaps the President has no objection to the substance of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U76	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I really hope you have the president's decision at hand. And if it isn't, I think you've made it very clear to yourself. You have now confirmed three times that the President has stated in his decision that he has no problem with the content of the draft. And now I'm asking if you could look at it and quote from where he said it was. You see, I have dealt with all kinds of texts in my life and also in source critical terms, but I can't find a place like that in that text, not even between the lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U78	Thank you. Those sentences that I have read here two or three times, I have read out of the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I referred to earlier, I read two and three paragraphs of this President's decision, which were very important. Once again, according to § 3 and § 102 and § 104 of the Constitution, the President considers it necessary to renegotiate and decide not to declare the relevant law adopted by Parliament. This implies that it considers that these three pre-determined paragraphs were infringed and has accordingly taken that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U79	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U80	Thank you. I am not a Member of the Commission or an expert on this draft, but it seems to me that this is going to take too long to listen to you. Correct me, if I'm wrong, I'll try to sum up what you say somehow. The Commission agreed to make one amendment before the third reading, which in the context seemed technical to the Commission, but which was contested by the President because it was not technical. One term was changed. From this the President concluded that the Riigikogu had been taken away as a decision-making power. Isn't it true that with this vote we are realising our decision-making powers? Or do we have these answers that are longer and more complicated? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U81	Thank you. Look, I have a lot to learn from my older colleagues. I listened to you, and I can tell you that I agree with what you say a hundred percent. Yes, we really did make some technical changes between second and third readings, according to the President, some substantive changes. What gave us the guarantee was that our own house's lawyers said that they thought it was a technical change. The President's office and his lawyers regarded it as substantive. Now we are back in this big Chamber, a new debate, a new opportunity to assess.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U82	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Please make it clear to us what this procedure, which we are doing here, is still going to give us the opportunity to make these procedural amendments, as actually the right procedure should be envisaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U84	Thank you. Well, every member of Parliament has a choice to make. If the President of the sitting makes this decision, which we consider to have been made as a proposal by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to adopt the draft unchanged, each Member shall have the opportunity to decide whether it was technical amendments or substantive amendments. I assume that when the green button was pressed, the technical changes, when the red button was pressed, the substantive changes, when the yellow button was pressed, were not understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U85	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U86	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, It has been said here that the President did not have any reproach on the substance of the law. However, he does say in his letter that replacing the word 'husband' with 'close relative' is not a clarification but a change in substance. Can you explain who this close relative is within the meaning of this law? You have a lot of discussions behind you, it's easy for you to say it's four, five women, is it one husband, is it children, is it a family or a tribe? Please explain the meaning of the term "close relative."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U87	Thank you. A close relative is not only mentioned in this bill, but is still a penetrating concept in all draft laws. Once again, in the same way in this bill, we actually very clearly wrote it out in different sections, which distinguishes the spouse and what rights we give by means of this bill specifically to the spouse of that person and what rights we give to a close relative. Now, I know I'm going a little slippery, but I'm going. I know, and I remember, that during the second reading in Parliament and also in the Commission, Mr Kruusimäe asked the same question as to whether this close relative could mean in other parts of the world that one man or one woman has several husbands, whether they are going to be close relatives in any way. No, this bill does not or does not define it. There are still rules in Estonia that only one person can have spouses. So close relatives are something else, and there's no way you can put them between equal marks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U88	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think that we do not have a dispute over the fact that state power is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws that are compatible with it. And the law that we are using here in this draft is the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which does not specify in detail the manner in which the drafts are dealt with. However, the Riigikogu regulations do exist, which give us specific instructions on how the facts must be reflected in the explanatory memorandum. I say that there is no debate about this either: although the explanatory memorandum, the norm rule also requires demographic analysis and regional analysis here, it was not in these drafts. I ask why we do not have to take into account the rules of Riigikogu regulations when § 3 of the Constitution says that we must deal with them as prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U90	Thank you. I will come back to what I think is very important. What you have brought about here now, but also on previous questions, the representative of the President's Office stressed several times that if the President vetoed this declaration of law, the aim was, in many ways, that this debate should be revisited from this great hall of the Riigikogu, or the House. And it's actually quite different from our third reading. Perhaps all Members will have the opportunity to ask me questions, I will be able to give answers as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, everyone will be able to give speeches. Perhaps everyone understands even more about the substance of this law, but also about the procedural bottlenecks that have been present here. That question of yours has gone a little behind my ears, but it's okay, Mr. Grünthal, we can give that answer later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U91	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U92	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand you're in a difficult role. By your answers, I mean, we can ask questions and we can really give speeches, but we can't make suggestions. And now you've changed like two sides. One thing is that fortunately you have understood when the war began in Ukraine. This is, of course, very remarkable. The government did not understand this, but at least the Commission did, thanks to the fact that the Fatherland stated this on several occasions that the war started not this year, but 2014. But what I want to bring to you is that you gave an example of this close relative and husband. Yes, it was possible to bring a husband, or one, but now it is written in the law that the husband is a close relative. Maybe I understand your answers, that now all five women can be taken with them when there are five women. It's just because you made it so that every religious person in every country could come with their husbands.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U93	Thank you. First of all, according to Estonian law, every person can still have only one husband. If different rules or procedures apply elsewhere in the world, in other cultures, they cannot automatically be transferred to the Estonian legal space. Now the question is, what is different from the debate we held here before the adoption of this law, when the President did not declare it, and now the debate. Once again, the president's idea was for each Member to have even more time to familiarise themselves with this draft, even more in front of these bottlenecks and positive aspects, then every Member will have the opportunity to press the buttons that appear on the keyboard again: green, yellow or red. The President's point is that, in this very debate, we understand what the President's criticisms were, the changes we made between second and third readings and whether they were substantive or rather technical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U94	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U95	Thank you, Mr President. In the course of the current draft procedure, when I asked why the Constitution and the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, which will be expanded by Riigikogu regulations, the esteemed waitress, Tõnis Mölder, said that you see, I somehow forgot about this. But my question is that you did not intervene in this matter and did not ask me to clarify the question. Or you didn't say what it really was either, because in essence, the question was not answered. Although I, knowing about Tõnis, who is a pretty sharp pencil to make up all sorts of things, for the first time I heard such an option that you see, somehow I forgot or didn't notice. So I can only interpret it as being a serious factor in this same procedural problem at the moment when this law is being renegotiated. The rapporteur will try to avoid leaning on this issue, as it is the Achilles heel of this bill. And now I'd like to ask for another chance. Since Tõnis Mölder, whose memory was not even one minute long, although I do not believe it well, [did not answer my question], maybe I have the opportunity to repeat this question again so that I can get an answer and also the President-President can answer [and know] what the rapporteur will answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U96	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the waitress actually said that she forgot the question. We don't have that chance. I thought you'd be resourceful here too, but really you're stuck with very strict procedural questions right now, so you didn't ask a new question either. I assumed something, too, but I totally missed it. Thank you for that, too. Aivar Chef, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe you'll tell Tõnis, I don't think he's understood what was repaired. In practice, after the second reading, in the text of that section, the commission replaced the word "husband' with the words "close relative'. Perhaps it is not necessary to say that there is a law in Estonia with one spouse, but that close relatives are a husband, children and parents. These are first-round relatives. You've done the piece that you might have brought one person before, now you can bring the whole first round of relatives. And we will not be able to propose any improvements. In reality, this is a change and an important change. A husband and a close relative do not have the same meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U98	Thank you. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to pass on your question to the waitress. Priit Onion, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I expect you to tell the ambassadors how and what exactly we are voting on, but maybe even now. When I listened to the waitress, she tried to say that those who press green interpret the changes as technical, and those who press red, they were substantive. Are we really going to vote on something like this, or are we going to vote on the bill? Here, like a very mysterious waitress, it was what we were going to vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U100	Thank you. Of course I will. The text is as follows, which the President puts to the vote: "From Article 114 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, I shall put to the vote the re-adoption of the Aliens Act sent back by the President of the Republic to the Riigikogu and the International Protection Grant Act to an alien without amendment. Please take a stand and vote. " It goes something like this. And there's also a hammer shot that wasn't there at the moment. [[Someone's talking about the hall.]] What? No, the manager's making the formulation I read to you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U101	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I went to print all kinds of material now. And I understand that the President referred to a major deficiency ♪ that the members of the Riigikogu did not have the opportunity to make any suggestions for improvement. But you're talking about when we're discussing... The President has not indicated that we have some kind of democratic crisis, that the ambassadors cannot express their opinions. Can you tell us where the Commission minutes have this interpretation that the President has referred to a situation in which the ambassadors cannot propose amendments, and we will replace it by the fact that the ambassadors can speak on the board? And where is some kind of analysis that the ambassadors are giving up their amendment because they have been able to speak? We are not Belarus, we are Estonia. Please tell me where this place is in the Commission's minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U102	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to read this sentence right here. A representative of the President's private office found that the President had largely achieved his veto's objective in procedural terms, in the sense that if it were to be re-negotiated in plenary, it would be significantly different from the third reading. Perhaps again: all Members will be able to ask a question and express their minds to the large Chamber before the final vote. If you, Mr. Kruusimäe, come to this remote control, I will no doubt listen to you, and that can also convince me if you have good arguments. Perhaps the idea of the President is, in fact, that a parliamentary debate will create better opportunities for everyone. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Now that I have the floor, I am still responding to some of the earlier thoughts here. First of all, to a colleague, I really missed his question because the introduction was long enough. I just wanted to say, though, that I understand what your complaint was. But continue: in my opinion, I believe that Parliament has dealt with this draft in accordance with the Home and Working Rules Act, and we have also used all the levers we had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, perhaps we have ordered various analyses of this draft before we brought it into this large hall, whether the decisions we are making will be consistent with our law on home and working procedures and whether they are compatible with the Constitution. Once again, the President has sent us back this bill. He found a slightly different tone in this draft procedure. But once again: Parliament will be able to give a new opinion in this House in the course of the procedure that we are currently doing, and then the President will have the right to assess whether or not this is an illegal act. And if he considers it unconstitutional, that is, in his opinion, the draft does not comply with the Constitution, he can appeal it to the Supreme Court. This does not mean that the Supreme Court automatically says that the President is right. The Supreme Court can also say that the parliament was right. In that case, we must have these discussions. But once again: I think that, in this case, we will not be stuck here in the procedural debate on this draft, but we will resolve the content of this draft, which I think is very important, in a very different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U103	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U104	Thank you, President-in-Office. On one of the previous issues, it was already mentioned that the honourable waitress tried... Well, I don't mean to say "wrong," but he probably tried to mislead us when he said that if we hit the red button at the vote, what we mean then, and if we push the green button, what we mean then. But I would like to draw your attention, Mr President-in-Office, to the fact that he also spoke about what is when someone pushes the yellow button. I have this feeling that the esteemed waitress tried to disparage the members of the Riigikogu because she said that if someone pushes the yellow button, they will not understand what is going on in this Chamber at all. As chairman of the meeting, should you not have intervened in such a place and told the honourable rapporteur that such speeches are inappropriate? Because we often press the yellow button when dealing with the drafts, and indeed, don't we know what we're doing with this example? Or what's your assessment? Yeah, this elegant hand movement, you can show us again and tell us what we are voting on then and show us how this voting process is going. It was a very elegant hand movement. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U105	Thank you. I think you can always raise respect and respect in this hall. But yes, I really didn't see any reason to interfere at that moment. But the members of the Riigikogu, as you say, really have the principle of a mandate free of the law. And the way a member of the Riigikogu votes is his free choice. Priit Onion, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U106	Thank you, Mr President. By answering the question from Tarmo Kruusimäe, and also taking into account Helle-Moonika Helme's comment, it seems to me that at some point the person answering the questions believed Kalle Grünthal's claim that he was a sharp pencil. The sharp pen is on my desk. I just want to say for the sake of the verbatim that Kalle Grünthal has spoken a lot of truth in this Chamber, but not always. And whether that fact is true or not, we will find out in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U107	Thank you for your explanation. A procedural question, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to see if you, the Bureau, are also planning to develop more broadly such a practice of dealing with drafts where we cannot make proposals in the meantime. What we are discussing here, this problem and its nature, is it going to be transferred to other drafts in the future, so we are going to do so here, so maybe the members of the Riigikogu will not be able to make any more suggestions between readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U109	Thank you. The Governing Board intends to carry out its work in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act and the [other] Laws. Amendments can and must be proposed, provided for by different options, for example in the case of the budget, they can be proposed twice: between the first and second readings and between the second and third readings. Unchanged when it's adopted, if that's what it's supposed to be, you can't do it at all. But we're following the Home and Working Procedures Act. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U110	Thank you! The question now is that, in addition to everything that has already sounded in this Chamber, there has actually been the introduction of concepts that do not correlate with common meanings. The same "close relative" is mentioned in § 50 of the Aliens Act, but, for example, the Family Law does not talk about it at all; there is no such term as "close relative," there is a "upper and descending relative." So here, too, is the problem that we cannot actually process it at all without having taken action, also opened the family law and defined the concept of this close relative in the sense of family law. What is your opinion, Mr President? Has there not yet been another breach of the procedural rule within the framework of the re-negotiation of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U111	Thank you. This will certainly not be assessed by the President here in the chairing of the [session]. And whether it is to be adopted unchanged or not, each member of the Riigikogu really has to decide for itself. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U112	Thank you. I do have a procedural question, which is very substantive and for the President of the Riigikogu. The President's complaints, as the rapporteur claimed, are procedural or procedural. Now we are in a situation where the President of the Riigikogu, or you, announce today, is that we are currently following the Home and Working Procedures Act. We have also dealt with drafts that have been made after the second reading, and we have not given all members of the Riigikogu the opportunity at third reading to participate in the negotiations. At the moment, the President's representative in the committee has said strangely, as if it is enough now that, after a second reading, when changes are made to the text, we should give all members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to participate in negotiations that are not allowed by the Home and Working Rules Act. And if the President really should now declare the law, as the representative of the Commission realized here, that it is enough for everyone to be able to participate in the negotiations and to say [their opinion], that is the possibility that we do not have at all the house and the rules of procedure. Could you dissect this strange situation? On which occasions, then, should we give all members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to negotiate at third reading, and which are not? Or it is still a violation of a very substantive law and an infringement of the Constitution as a result of the paragraphs to which the President also referred. However, we cannot do such a thing, as we are doing here now, that we are discussing matters of no substance at third reading with the participation of all members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U113	Thank you. At the moment, the procedure that we are dealing with, renegotiating the Aliens Act not announced by the President of the Republic and the Act amending the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, is based mainly on two sections of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act: § 113 and § 114. Paragraph 114 (2) and this is a special procedure at the moment, I agree with this, says that when a law which has not been declared by the President of the Republic is being renegotiated, negotiations are being opened during which the members of the Riigikogu, the representatives of committees and political groups wishing to express their views on the motives for not declaring the law will take place. Why did I say that all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to speak if they so wish in the round of negotiations? I have just said this on the basis of § 114 (2), which really concerns the special procedure. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U114	Thank you, President-in-Office. I still had a little bit in mind that you didn't take a firm stand on what I asked you earlier, that if someone were to abstain and have any real... Well, the motives we're talking about here are this bill. Indeed, a member of the Riigikogu is free to vote and so it is, but the waitress's tip left no doubt that if it goes like... I mean, it's in the steinogram. And according to today's debate, the President will make his decision. If anyone is abstaining, the President may feel that the people who pressed the yellow button did not understand what was going on in this Chamber and what we are discussing here. Perhaps, for the sake of protocol, you would also make this remark to the waitress that it is not appropriate for us to be misled by pressing the yellow or red button, nor for us to be discredited.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U115	Thank you. It is not appropriate to disparage fellows. But whatever color button the member of the Riigikogu press in technical terms really, as you said, is free in his mandate and makes this decision himself. On the basis of whether he understands, understands or does not understand at all, this cannot be done. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U116	Thank you. I understand and know what kind of discussion is taking place today on the basis of the Article of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. My question still came from the content. Still about the contents. When the President sent the draft back to Parliament, it is not with the idea that we are simply discussing and essentially dealing with the draft, but with the violation of the law on domestic and working procedures, after a second reading, which was not allowed by the law on domestic and working procedures. This means that if we acted correctly, we should have come here today and amended the bill, perhaps to go on with a second reading, so that the members of the Riigikogu would also have the opportunity to table amendments, discuss them and then adopt the law either more or less in a modified form. And then the president has a chance to decide again. But not so that we are simply discussing without the possibility of proposing amendments and essentially discussing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U117	Thank you. I understand this procedure as follows: The President has given his opinion, the commission has gathered and expressed its opinion. Whether it will be re-accepted in its unaltered state or changed form, each member of the Riigikogu decides for itself. § 114 (5) also says that if the Riigikogu does not accept the law sent back to the Riigikogu by the President of the Republic without amendment, its further processing will take place in accordance with § 99.108 and 110.112 of the Home and Working Rules Act. The leading committee is the Riigikogu's procedure without the draft commission. Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U118	Thank you, Mr President. I'll pick up where the esteemed Helle-Moonika Helme left off, say, about these buttons. I understand very well that if the green button is pressed, the bill will be supported, and if the red button is pressed, it will not be supported. But explain to me, taking into account your long-term practice and experience in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, how it is possible to abstain from declaring the law. Maybe a person hasn't figured it out, or doesn't care about it? But then I wonder why he's in this room if he doesn't care about the question. Why and from what point of view can an ambassador be even impartial?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U119	Thank you. Our whole vote relates to the principle of a free mandate. And I'll stick to my answer. Aivar Chef, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U120	Thank you. I'm asking you, manager. I don't get it now. We can see that the procedure has broken the order. You have sent a letter to us, to all the committees, that no such mistakes should be made between second and third readings, but we are now discussing and leaving this in the wrong. Is it now that you do not walk by what I do, but walk by what I say? Or how can you understand that? We in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have been discussing at length today that we should not make such a mistake. And at least as long as I've been on that committee, there hasn't been such a problem. But there have been several times in the Chamber of Riigikogu during the last six months, when it turns out that by force or by a roller, they are not believed to be transferred from members of the Riigikogu, as is the draft, where there are very important changes inside, and we cannot propose amendments. How should we still act as members of the Riigikogu? Can we still try to make improvements between second and third readings in all committees, not just technical ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U121	Thank you. I'm going to answer you this way, in the end, this is everyone's decision. If they want to propose amendments here, that is an option. In that case, it must be re-opened and relied on § 114 (5). If it is to be adopted unchanged, § 114 (3) shall be invoked. No one can prescribe this decision to a member of the Riigikogu. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U122	Thank you, good chief! You have just referred to the fact that the representative of the Commission gave his personal opinion. But I... Well, you can look at it from the verbatim, a couple of answers back, which encouraged me to ask for it. I have perhaps misunderstood that a representative of the Commission is giving a debate in the Commission. But he's just giving personal opinions right now. When I asked where it comes from knowing that if we give the ambassadors a chance to speak now, that is equivalent to giving up the amendment. Perhaps a good chief can still say the law of home and working procedures, it is still extremely difficult for me; I have not yet chewed through it, where there are some variations, let's say, if the ambassador wants something else, it could be replaced by one thing or another. It is a rather agile approach that no amendments can be tabled, but one can talk. What does this paragraph of the Rules of Procedure and employment say about the possibility of substitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U123	Thank you. I understand what you're asking. No, there is no substitution option, there are no such paragraphs, but in this case the procedure is primarily based on paragraphs 113 and 114. This is the answer to you that if you want to go to change it, and I read it in advance, it really means that we're going to go on with the second reading here. And I said that after that, of course, there are amendments, and then we will move on. So that depends on how the members of the Riigikogu vote. Riina Sikkut, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U124	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly stressed in the Chamber that the President's concern, the reason for not having announced this draft, was procedural or procedural technical, not substantive, and you come to the conclusion that you will receive a recommendation to your colleagues that today is the moment when we can all read the draft again, examine its content, find answers to our concerns, ask questions about the debate in the Commission and then shape our position. Despite whether the President's concern was procedural or substantive, in fact, the fact that it was removed from the previous government's draft and largely filled with new content, the fact that the war needs and long-lasting effects were put together in a single draft, was requested to be dealt with quickly, and the fact that the substantive changes were made before the third reading and the concerns of several parties, such as seafarers on board ships, were not answered. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps, in fact, the concerns that were at the discussion of the draft are very substantive. And in this Chamber, although the President's concern was procedural, it is not possible to overlook the substantive concerns of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U125	Good questioner, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U126	This cannot be resolved with one question here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U127	Thank you. First I... Those colleagues are no longer in the Chamber who raised the issue of my debate on the colours on the board. Once again, I apologize to my good colleagues when I hurt someone. But now, in answer to your question, I will first read out some sentences from the President's Office. I think they're important, and I'm going to count them out of this protocol so they're one to one. The President's representative's sentence: "These concern procedural problems, not the substance of the law. " That was his assessment of the president's decision. The representative explained that if there is a situation where the law is adopted in the same form again, the President has no reason to turn to the Supreme Court, because the President can only turn to the Supreme Court if he finds that the law is contrary to the Constitution. And the third, which I think is very important here: the President has largely achieved his veto objective procedurally in the sense that, if it goes through the debate again in plenary, it differs significantly from the third reading. Perhaps these are the principles that I tried to reflect here in this debate. Once again: our rules of procedure and home procedures provide that our debate today should be precisely of a more technical nature, that the President did not announce it or that we could do better or not do better. However, we were able to hold a substantive debate precisely when this draft envisaged reading the three. And I say once again, I guess there were no roads in the Chamber when we were discussing whether this draft passed such a short sprint procedure in Parliament or rather a slow one, that my assessment was: indeed this draft was dealt with at length, through a number of different governments, and those problems, which may have been left in the air in some sectors, were also answered during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And, as I said, there are few drafts where both trade unions and business organisations very much agree that this bill needs to be adopted urgently.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U128	Well, good Kalvi Tough, before we get to your question, there's a procedural question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U129	Yeah, even though I wasn't in the hall, I still heard the waitress. Did I get it right that, even though the President's concern is procedural and can be resolved by the proper procedure, the rapporteur considers that it is not necessary to start a new procedure, but to adopt [the law] in the same way and then it is quickly and everything is done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U130	I, Mr Riina Sikkut, do not have a translation apparatus between you and the respondent. Rock Hard, please! I'm sorry! Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U131	Yeah, I still have the same content I've been asking and now Riina's asking him over. As the representative of the Commission made the statement and the position of the President in the Commission very clear once again, I will ask him. This is a very important procedural point. The President's representative has claimed that veto objectives have been achieved if we now negotiate here without giving members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to make substantive changes and discuss substantive changes. In the future, if we now approve of this precedent in this great Chamber, then the Riigikogu, or the government coalition, will be able to act in such a way that after the second reading, the Riigikogu, a part of the Riigikogu, will make radical changes, which are substantive, after the second reading, the President will send it back. We simply accept that substantive changes have been made. I am not saying that only procedural arrangements have been violated, but substantive changes have also been made, and then we will accept unchanged and that is the end of the story. And so, in the future, we can start working on drafts, make substantive changes after the second reading, and not interrupt any more. Then there is absolutely no point in interrupting the second reading of the drafts; it no longer makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U132	Thank you. You said your understanding, it's not a procedural question in that sense. But in any case, I believe that there can be no substantive changes between second and third readings, as the law says. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U133	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Tõnis! Sounder asked the exact same question I wanted to ask you. In fact, Tõnis, we are currently setting a precedent, and in the future we can begin to address a very large number of legislative proposals according to this precedent. So, I don't know, I've got a bill to amend the VAT law on this table. The Commission, after a second reading, throws a number a little differently there, the President doesn't announce, comes back, the big hall can't say anything, and the coalition takes a vote. After all, in the opinion of half of the Chamber today, the changes made by the Commission after the second reading in the Commission are not, in the opinion of half of the Chamber, at least as I understand the Commission's debate, not technical, but substantive. And from this point of view, I do not understand why the Commission has taken such a course that today this draft should be adopted or should not be redirected to second reading by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U134	Thank you. I do not share your view here that we are somehow creating a separate precedent here. In my opinion, through the history of this long Parliament, where we have also had a great many different presidents, there have been situations where the President has not announced any draft laws and Parliament has made its own decisions since then. Perhaps today Parliament is free in the course of its proceedings, but it must comply with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now that we have taken our decision, every Member of Parliament is free in his decision, today he can vote according to his conscience, then the President will be able to decide again whether not to declare the law or to declare the law and it will be implemented in the form that Parliament has adopted. Now that the President does not declare the law, he considers it unconstitutional, he must justify it and he can turn to the Supreme Court. Then it's up to the court to decide who was wrong or whether any mistakes were made. Perhaps I do not think that we are creating any precedent in this respect, that we have had situations similar to those of previous drafts, and that there will certainly be situations in the future where Parliament adopts the law, but the President does not declare it. So the same format of the debate is created for what our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure require, that there is a new debate in Parliament, that people can exchange their ideas, that they can express their opinions. A round of speeches is about to begin, so that all Members will also be able to express their thoughts and then make a sensible decision. So in this sense, I think that by the end of the evening we will not create any precedent, but, if this bill is to reach the Supreme Court, then the role of the Supreme Court is certainly to give a specific solution to such matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U135	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Now we have come to the round of negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibula, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues! The coalition has committed not only a pig in the cube, but it is also an ideal example of a terrible legislative practice. The coalition takes a bill off the shelf, turns it off its feet and swayes it as a result of haste. The war that began in 2014 is described initially as a war that started on 24 February this year. Then there is an attempt to correct and change this mistake, but it is not in accordance with the law, because we know that no changes can be made after the second reading. Similarly, the word "husband' shall be replaced by the word "close relative' by the word "breeding relative', whatever the case may be. The extension shall be explained in detail. Well, actually, that's not possible. A close relative is a non-regulated concept. There should be enough memory in this hall, including in the coalition, that changing dates is not only a technical change but also a substantive change. This, of course, is unfortunately nothing extraordinary about this coalition or for the first time. I remember when the Reform Party Group and its chairman decided to set an unelected example in the autumn. By ignoring the law and for no reason, their group recommended setting an example for the rest of society and Parliament to switch to teleworking. They did not care that the proposal was contrary to our own domestic and operating procedures. Since the voices were together, it was clear that the roller would work. This was also my main incentive to turn to the Supreme Court at the time. Especially in these difficult times, we must be very precise about justice, so that our decisions are made not only in terms of logic, good purpose and will, but also in terms of good law. Legal consistency is based not on goodwill but on good justice. The President gave us the opportunity to correct our mistakes, but the coalition ambassadors in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to send him behind the tree and thus put him in the right difficult position of lawmaking in Estonia, not the President, because it should be easy for him, because Parliament broke [the law] and is doing it again today, disregarding the President's remarks. After all, then, the Head of State will not be able to declare this law, no matter what agreements are made in the costaires. It is not possible to change the right by means of a set of cost agreements. I have not been able to speak at all about the substance of the bill, which is as if urgent. However, when it comes to urgent matters, one must be especially correct. It has become the custom of the coalition to justify everything, including the reduction of newspaper VAT, by the Russian Federation's new invasion of Ukraine. This draft seeks to resolve a number of issues relating to war refugees, but not only. With this draft, the Reform Party will try to solve and change the fundamentals of Estonia's long-term migration policy with the help of the Centre Party. Although I am conservative, I understand well that, over time, it is necessary to adapt again and adjust the right. But we're in the dark today. Two and a half months ago, the government shouted that Estonia could handle 10,000 refugees. By handing over the additional budget to us last Wednesday, 50,000 refugees have been calculated for all kinds of grants and services. However, if we do not know how many of them will remain, how many people need help, and how many hands to work, it is absurd to change the conditions and requirements of migration and labour and pay policies for workers coming from third countries with today's draft. The fact that I had the opportunity to express my opinion, but not to make changes, does not allow me to make use of the opportunities provided for in the law in practice. Therefore, in order to be able to discuss them in substance and to present its opinion legally correctly as amendments, it is necessary to amend this draft rather than adopt it unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U137	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U138	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U139	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The President did not declare the Aliens Act and the Act amending the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, as he considered that the Act had been adopted in Parliament in breach of the three provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The government has tried to claim that this law is needed for Ukrainian refugees and quickly. Unfortunately, it has also remained to be heard in the media. In fact, the President had to understand that this statement was not valid, because so the European Union's Implementing Decision of 4 March 2022 providing temporary protection for Ukrainian refugees applies. With temporary protection, they shall enjoy all necessary rights. In order to comply with this Implementing Decision, the Government of the Republic introduced Order No 66 of 88 March: the application of temporary protection. In other words, I repeat again, this law is not needed for Ukrainian refugees. The president announced that he did not declare this law because of a breach of the rules of procedure in Parliament, but he did not state that he would agree with the rest of this law, even though the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tried to give us such an impression. The president didn't write anything about it in his decision. Just because he didn't write doesn't mean he would have agreed. On the contrary, the verbatim report of the Commission meeting gave the impression that there were problems with the rest of the content. But it is also appropriate not to declare the law because of a breach of the rules of procedure. The president has done his duty here. These rules are important. The President is a retired person, and maybe he also knew the example that I am now bringing, which is true, maybe in the current context, but still illustrates the importance of the rules of procedure. Indeed, the much-spoken Hitler coming to power in Germany was not the result of a democratic choice of the people, as they are trying to show us, but the result of political combinations. It was in this situation, when Germany had already ceased to function as a parliamentary democracy. Democracy was lost in that country because the spirit of the Constitution was just violated by interpreting the constitutional rules of procedure as the authors had not meant it. The emergency decree, which was not normally intended for governance, was gradually introduced. Now, of course, I cannot see all the motives of our Estonian President, but it is reasonable to believe that he took the oath of office of the President, according to which he must firmly defend the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia using the power given to him fairly and impartially, and faithfully perform his duties in favour of the people of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia with all abilities and best understanding. Since the actual content of the draft is those provisions that amplify the influx of low-cost labour and mass immigration, it should logically be assumed or assumed that the root reason why the President did not declare the law was that the law contrasts with the spirit of the Constitution as a whole and with what is included in the introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which our state must consolidate and develop a country which must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages in a spirit of unwavering faith and unwavering will. The President's motives may also have been those that I am not focusing on right now. In fact, the bill amplifies our economic problems, making Estonia a land of cheap labour, secondly social problems, making already highly complex integration even more difficult and inhibiting the wage growth of our workers, and thirdly, our demographic problems are not solved, but, on the contrary, they are amplified, as the birth rate of immigrants from Eastern Slavic countries is much lower than that of Estonians. And then on. Now I am talking about the President's motives, moreover, there is no reason to talk about them only in the past, but we must talk about them in the future. And that is why this law is opposed to the Constitution. According to the population projections of the Estonian Demography Centre, if the current situation continues, Estonians will become a minority in their own country sometime during this century. However, if we amplify the already taking-up of mass immigration, as this law wants to do, then if the average annual migration balance is plus 6 000, we are expected to remain a minority in just over half a century when this law is passed. And I'm sure the president knows that turning into a minority is only one symbolic feature. It's a symbolic line. It is difficult to comply with the introduction to the Constitution and to ensure the preservation and development of Estonian nationality, language and culture before the situation of Estonians declines even further. That's what's happening. It may well be that the President looked at the website of Statistics Estonia, where it was written nicely, or some counsellor looked at it. I therefore call on Parliament to comply with the Constitution and not to vote in favour of this draft. If the goal of the government coalition is no longer unwavering in faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop a country that must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages, as the present Constitution requires, it would be fair to come up with a proposal to amend the Constitution. However, as long as the Constitution is in force, and if the Government Coalition does make this mistake again by voting in favour of the law that has been rejected, we hope that the President will have the motive and backbone to defend the Constitution and that he will also fail to declare the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U141	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, There is such a sentiment: "The lot has fallen, the decision has been taken, the matter has been finally resolved. "Or as Caesar said, "Alea iacta est." Today, while working on this bill, I have a feeling it's exactly like this. We go through a lot of trouble trying to convince each other, but unfortunately for some reason, as an example of bad legislation, it has been put in place, decided, no matter how good words here try to influence you. Once, I may be wrong in a year, but it may have been in 1980 or 1980s, we had a very common social phenomenon like Brezhnev's package. You know, Arthur Hailey's "Air Station" is a real example of this. If you wanted to read that good bestseller, you had to buy Brezhnev's "The Cold Land" or "The Little Land" or what he was. [[Someone's gonna fix it.]] Yeah, I'm sorry! Not to the cold country. Sorry! Thank you. The point is, in order to get something good, you must take something very bad. This is exactly the kind of feeling that has come into being when we are dealing with this bill, that it has been again tried to do so. One comma of the other good that the previous government coalition pointed out at the beginning of this bill. I would stress that the bill number is 241. It was able to properly scramble and turn a good bill into an extremely bad bill. What my good colleague, as the representative of the Commission, has pointed out here, is that it is as if everything is well that there is no particular problem here, as if the President were content, as if he agreed, that there are only formal questions, well, it is still a lie. It doesn't work out anywhere. Indeed, as good Jaak Valge said, there are substantive errors here, problems with content and problems with formalism, which is why, because of formalism alone, there is a contradiction with the Constitution. It is not the first time that I am thinking not only of the current President, but also of the previous Presidents, who will take a decision in breach of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which is a very serious violation of the Constitution. And here he comes again. Again and again, we are dealing with bad legislation, embarrassing ourselves, embarrassing the President. I am sad that the law has already been decided, the leading politicians have decided [it already] to speak, talk, friends, anyway we will adopt it. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing here is very bad. This bill should have gone as the opposition told you: let's not get into trouble. If you want, we'll separate different pieces of the law. What is about increasing migration, we will discuss in the future, that is not the issue now, and we will only take what is topical. It was rejected. It was decided to go this way. This, of course, cannot end otherwise if it only apparently ends with the Supreme Court and the rejection. But anyway, even though I said at first that this is almost a hopeless step that I want to take here, I'm still going to take that step. And I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to apply common sense, apply logic and try to avoid the mistakes that have been made here in the past. I still call for no violation of the Constitution and for no support for the adoption of this draft unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U143	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U144	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U145	Sure. Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Not only has the draft under discussion violated the Constitution, our Home and Working Procedures Act and good parliamentary culture, but it has also behaved unethically, taking advantage of the war situation and what is happening there, and in its shadow, as if solving the problems of refugees, it is desirable to change the fundamentals of the entire migration policy to date. It's not ethical anymore. The coalition had the opportunity to separate the draft in such a way and to deal with these matters separately, so that the urgent issues of refugees would be dealt with here as a matter of urgency. I believe that there would have been a much greater consensus in Parliament on this issue than is the case today. Everything concerning migration policy, in principle third-country nationals, should have been discussed separately. The fact that it was decided not to follow the spirit of the Constitution and our rules of procedure, but to act as they did today, also means that the refugees themselves were given a disservice. This law would otherwise have been passed a long time ago, but now we are arguing here, maybe we will be arguing for a very long time and maybe we will also reach the Supreme Court. But this is certainly not what the refugees wanted, nor did the coalition want, nor does Parliament want by itself. So regrettably, coalition ambassadors have put all parties in a very uncomfortable position, including the Head of State. Of course, after the second reading, substantive changes have been made, otherwise the President would have had no reason to return it to Parliament. If only linguistic changes had been made, everything would have been in accordance with the law of the house and the rules of procedure, and the President would have had no reason to send it here. This is precisely why it was sent here because there were substantive changes, and after the second reading, the word 'husband' was replaced by 'close relatives'. " We realize that these are completely different terms, expressions with completely different meanings. Secondly, when the post-second reading text of the draft spoke about the military conflict in Ukraine which began on 24 February 2022, the Steering Committee later abandoned the definition of the beginning of the military conflict in the amended text. This is a very substantive amendment, the definition of it has been abandoned, i.e. Parliament's will has been changed. The date of entry into Estonia on 24 February 2022 as a legal basis for the citizens of Ukraine. Of course, these are fundamentally completely different things and Parliament's will was changed. And the members of the Riigikogu did not have the opportunity to participate in the further processing of this bill, because it was not possible to propose amendments. We are now in a very difficult and uncomfortable situation. The President gave Parliament the opportunity, as amended, to adopt this draft law, i.e. to discuss and use the opportunity provided for by the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, namely that members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to table amendments, discuss these same amendments and shape Parliament's will into the law and then adopt it as amended. Regrettably, this is not what the Riigikogu wants, it seems to me, at least on the basis of the debate in the lead committee, that can be said. Now, for a future worth thinking for ourselves, we also have when a representative of the President in the Commission has allegedly argued that the veto objective has been achieved if there is simply a third reading in Parliament and the law is adopted unchanged. That's weird. It is extremely strange when the President's representative actually said so and if it is the President's will. Parliament will then be treated as a rubber stamp, which will only cause idle talk. Then it is a situation where the President's representative claims that I sent it back just because you two would talk things out. Neither the Constitution nor the Law on Home and Working Procedures require this. If there were no substantive changes after the second reading, the President would have had no reason and no opportunity to return it. Let's think about it a little bit. So, as a result, I also very much hope that the President will remain in the defence of the rule of law and will not retreat from the pressure of the coalition that we are seeing today. I really hope that the President will have the backbone to stick to his proposal, because it is not only a matter of procedure, but in essence, almost half of the members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of the opportunity to realise their mandate, in accordance with the Constitution, as well as the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to deal with drafts and adopt laws here. I would like to remind you that several previous presidents have been a little different, but, nevertheless, in a similar case, they have sent such drafts back to Parliament. And I would also like to recall that procedural issues are not just technical issues and are, as if, separated from the spirit of the Constitution. Nothing like that! I agree with Jaak White that they are very substantive. These are the substantive procedures and actions that we are doing here, and if we ignore them, we can very much distance ourselves from the Constitution and democratic regime. And sending this Parliament itself to teleworking was also a procedural question, just the internal procedural question of Parliament itself, how we do the work. Honourable colleagues, what decision did the Supreme Court reach? Let us recall the decision made by the Riigikogu. Procedural issues, simply procedural issues. So I call, ladies and gentlemen, for your common sense and for us to give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to realise the constitutional mandate, to propose amendments, to vote in the Chamber, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, and to adopt this law in accordance with the Home and Working Rules Act and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U147	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the amendments to the Aliens Act again today. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I can say that this is still a very good law and I would ask all the ambassadors to support its adoption unchanged. First of all, I recall that we have processed this law in an accelerated manner in order to meet the Ukrainian war refugees in Estonia. I can't really understand how it's possible to think that we shouldn't take people who have escaped the war humanely here. However, we have heard this emotion repeatedly in this House, when expressed so harshly that not only the people of the people, but every person, would be ashamed. With this bill and today's law, we create an opportunity to continue living and working in Estonia for people who were already here before 24 February. Anyone who watches the news understands that the Ukrainians are now forced to return to their homeland because they left it before the war broke out is simply inhumane. When this draft becomes a law, thousands of Ukrainians who worked in Estonia on the basis of a short-term work permit before 24 February will not become dependent on the Estonian taxpayer. They can continue working in Estonia. If it was allowed to do so for 12 months, this law creates the possibility of extending their work for up to three years. So far, the government has extended it under the Emergency Act. But sooner or later, this opportunity will disappear. The current deadline will fall on May 31st. For Ukrainians, the law introduces an exception that allows them to work in Estonia if the salary they pay remains at the level of 0.8 average wages. This means that these people can also work in rural areas in Estonia, where wages have not been so good for the average rally. In addition to Putin's aggression war, there are also amendments to the law that allow us to come here to work with specialists who, because of our limited population, are simply not taken from the labour market here. Almost all Estonian employers have supported these changes. In its press release of 4 April, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Founders' Society, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce have stated the following (quoting): "This is a crucial draft for the sustainability of the Estonian economy, which helps to increase the competitiveness of Estonian companies on the global market and to ensure the creation and preservation of jobs in Estonia. Quickly processing the bill would demonstrate the strong working capacity of the government in difficult times. " Listen to what or who else? In the next five years alone, the number of people of working age in Estonia will decrease by 31000 people. We have repeatedly been concerned that one of our greatest challenges in the coming years will be to compensate, either in a way or in another, for a significant drop in the number of workers and for the problems arising from the ageing of the population. This law takes an important step along this path. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our very concrete contribution to mitigating and preventing problems. The opposition's complaints that the law does not have an impact analysis are unfounded. On the contrary, so specific an assessment of the impact of amending one or the other provision on each of our labour markets in a separate numerical way is rare in the Chamber. Ministers Kristian Jaan and Andres Sutti must be commended for this, not criticised. Part of the new law makes the situation tougher for foreign students studying here, and it is in the paragraphs that the EKRE and the Fatherland are currently debating. We think that if a student who's come here to study can't complete the curriculum, he's gonna have to leave here quickly. In this law... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U149	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U150	...this change will also come, perhaps within 30 days, he will have to leave here. We believe, and we also think, that together with him we must go with our husband and close relatives. And it is close relatives, not just a husband, for which the EKRE and the Fatherland are currently fighting, because we believe that only people who are allowed to study or work in Estonia have the right to be present. I do not understand why the EKRE and the Fatherland want to create a loophole and, in this connection, an immigration pump. And if there is a question of whether this is a linguistic or technical change that was made between the second and third readings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu has also confirmed: it is a technical change, it is a mistake and it is justified to do so, it is our own rules of procedure. Those who claim that legislative changes allow Estonia to be flooded with cheap labour. The salary of the top specialist must be one-and-a-half times the average wage in Estonia, i.e. as of today around 2700 euros. I also stress that we continue to follow the principle of controlled migration in Estonia, which means that the state will decide whether and which workforce to allow here and what rules these people must follow. There is also an agreement with this draft that the Ministry of the Interior will receive additional resources to develop IT systems and employ migration workers. However, in this labour force, the Estonian economy wins considerably, through which we all receive better services from the state. The amendments generate additional tax revenues estimated at EUR 176 million per year. Nor can I agree with the reproach of the colleagues of the Fatherland here, as if we had spent time helping the Ukrainians, and all this could have been done more quickly. I recall that the law we are debating today has been passed in this Chamber some time ago, although for incomprehensible reasons it was the Fatherland that made a complaint to the President of the Republic and has made this important law stretch. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the draft once again and without changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U151	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, Making mistakes is so human. Even in the case of us politicians, Members of Parliament whose professionalism is to make decisions, making mistakes is humane. But since a better bad decision than no decision at all, sometimes it happens that we brake too early. We think that all aspects of the questions have already been considered, although not really. We find that for the sake of speed or some surprise purpose, you can overlook the procedure and so on and so forth. And that's when it goes off. It does sometimes. The hallmark of wise people and good leaders is not necessarily flawless decision-making, but the hallmark is certainly the ability to correct your mistakes. The President points out very seriously that the democratic procedure has been violated in the process of dealing with this law. The laws must comply not only with the content of the Constitution, but also with our work here must comply with the Constitution and the constitutional procedures. If you look at this particular section, which starts by saying that if an alien has a fixed-term residence permit to settle with a close relative, and at the end it was said that 30 days after the spouse has failed to complete the curriculum to the required extent, is this conversion of a "husband" into a "close relative" technical? Yeah, that's a mistake. I'm sure it's right that it was probably a finger. It probably came from some kind of cutting-copier thing, people didn't read the law properly, looked at the principle, and found that the principle could be accepted. But after the law becomes a law, we do not look at it so that the members of the Riigikogu read exactly what they voted for. Then those words have meaning. This is also the case between second and third readings. Between second and third readings, we can still only make changes where the meaning of words does not change, where there are orthographic errors. We can fix them. But if there's a change in the substance of the law to correct orthographic errors, it's already a substantive change. That's the way it is here. Turning the word "husband" into "close relative," no matter how logical it may seem to us, is a substantive correction. And if we take into account that we accept the argument that yes, okay, let's switch these words, we'll figure out what was meant, then we'll open a very dangerous door. We're gonna open this door so almost every law can come up and say, "Hey, that makes sense, you know, common sense." Well, I don't know, for example, saying that we allow all refugees to work, they say that we are going to write 'asylum applicants', because it is a much nicer word, and we all agree with that. But then, of course, after that, we will discover that these are still not quite unambiguous words, and we have made a significantly bigger change than we wanted, without any discussion. So this amendment, the President, is right, this change is substantive, although it may have happened because we just rushed. Here would be our moment to say: yes, failed, we will make this change as we have to, and we will adopt the law as we have wanted. The second problem, of course, is that this law will make significant changes to our current immigration rules. And although, of course, Parliament has the right to change our immigration policy at exactly the moment we want to change it, that is what we are here for, it must be done with a democratic procedure in mind. There is a very clear reason why single-chamber parliaments have three readings when dealing with laws. At first reading, we will decide whether such a matter needs to be discussed at all. Between the first and the second, each Member shall have the opportunity to exercise his mandate and to make amendments. And in the third case, there really are orthographical questions. Now, here for first reading... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U153	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U154	There was a law here at first reading that did not change this principle very significantly, so I think that is why it went through the first reading very sensibly. And then suddenly some very fundamental changes appear at second reading, which I, for example, generally agreed with some of them, but I would have liked to be specifically improved. Well, for example, these same pay criteria, why would he necessarily be one-and-a-half? Personally, I think that it should be linked to a collective agreement and said that according to the salary agreed between trade unions and businesses in the sector. I was unable to make such a change because there was no point before, and then suddenly it came from somewhere in the sky. And I am not the only one who found myself in this situation. It doesn't exactly correspond to a democratic procedure. There are also some technical issues that I would mention. For example, the Estonian seafarers' union has said that they have expressed their wish to find a compromise on the social security of seafarers, but this compromise was still being sought. However, in the explanatory memorandum to this law, I read something else. So I have a question, which is true. And this is a very important problem of democracy. As regards the refugees in Ukraine, the citizens of Ukraine and their opportunity to stay and work in Estonia, I think there is no dispute about this in this Chamber at all. The opposition has also said on several occasions today that if we were to be separate from it, I think it would have been adopted. So in that sense, let's not involve moralism here unless it's appropriate. It's not really very pretty either. But in times of crisis like this, it is particularly important that we care about our own democratic procedure and that we care about those things that maybe look technical and where we want to say, but logical thinking, but common sense. Yes, but the text of the law must be unambiguous. The fact that we're tweaking until the last minute is the point. This idea is precisely that when I take the text of the law, I, as a common citizen, understand what it is like to behave in a legitimate way. I don't have to start inventing or wondering who was there and under what conditions it was accepted and what they wanted to do there. That's why this change, although it may have been caused by copy-paste, is substantive. And that's why I think it's a mistake we're making right now if we don't quite fix the problems that I've turned out to be here and what's sounded like in this hall. There's no question of taking it and doing it again. We are worthy of the name of our representative of the people, we are acting wisely, we are discussing immigration policy substantially again, we are correcting the mistakes where we were wrong against the democratic process, and I am sure that we will be able to adopt this law honestly, in a reasonable time and democratically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U155	Kalle Grünthal, please! [[Kalle Grünthal is asking for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U156	Mr President of the Republic of Estonia! I am sure you will follow today's debate. Honourable people of Estonia, as well as ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber! On 21 April this year, the President did not declare a law amending the Aliens Act and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to aliens, on the ground that the law was not in conformity with the Constitution. I would like to express my deep gratitude to the President of the Republic for the fact that you have stood up for the protection of the Constitution. But it's more fundamental and more serious than it seems at first sight. Because § 3 (1) of the Constitution has been seriously infringed, according to which state power is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws compatible with it. The new processing of this law in this Chamber must be based, in principle, on the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Since this law does not lay down in detail how we deal with these matters, there is such a rule, the norm rules that we have to follow when adopting laws, both when drafting the law and when drafting the explanatory memorandum, so that all members of the Riigikogu have a full understanding and clarity of what this law entails. But that is the same procedure that has fundamentally violated the exercise of state power in the sense of the Constitution, because they are not in accordance with the law of the Riigikogu's home and working procedures. The same rule that we must follow gives us specific guidance on the explanatory memorandum, which must be made clear in advance. However, this draft does not mention any of the effects of this law in terms of its demographic consequences, the regional impact, and the worst of all is that this explanatory memorandum has been amended between the first and second readings. He came to the second reading in a completely different way and very short and, at the same time, extremely controversial. By the way, when I asked Tõnis Möldri a question about this today, he somehow forgot about the fact that I was describing and about which I was asking and began to talk about something else. In fact, the same fact shows that this is the Achilles heel of this bill. Perhaps the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could not find an answer to my very simple question. By the way, this same scheme worked very well in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when I asked the same question, which is why the explanatory memorandum has been amended between two readings. Then, imagine, the representatives of the ministry, who are always bravely prepared to answer any question, began to whisper among themselves. They could not find an answer to why the explanatory statement had been amended in the meantime. And this embarrassing silence was interrupted by the chairman of the commission, Toomas Kivimägi, who tried to help them out there. But what's remarkable? Tõnis Mölder said a very remarkable sentence: "That is a question, even the representatives of the ministry fell silent." Another problem that exists in the matter is the fact that the meaning of the words has been changed here, let's say, the word 'husband' has been replaced by 'close relative'. Here are the references to § 150 of the Aliens Act, which states this concept. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a close relative who is then a distant relative. Anyone know how to answer that? And here, in fact, the problem is that this Aliens Act is not in accordance with the Family Law, which specifically mentions the concept of relatives, is directly related, i.e. ascendant and descending relatives. A completely new concept has been introduced here, which legally only creates absolute confusion. I still want to congratulate the President and his team once again for dared to come out and rightly took up the protection of the Constitution in response to the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who should be the first watch post in the drafting of laws. Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said: "I take the risk that this is not the technical change that we are bringing in here. " But how do you deal with this risk when it's done wrong? Fortunately, the President's team also said that there are other things that have been done wrong in this law. So I very much hope that the honourable President is still full of bullets, in the sense that he can show the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and those ambassadors who support the re-adoption of this draft, that these decisions have been made wrong. Today, Tõnis Mölder has quoted me on quite a number of occasions with the sentence structure that I said out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: "If you have lost money, then you have lost nothing. If you've lost your health, it's irreversible. But if you've lost honesty, you've lost everything. " As a result, however, I call on all the ambassadors not to support this draft without discussing it again because it does not comply with the procedural rules. I expect support from those ambassadors for whom honesty is important. I really hope there are honest ambassadors in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U157	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U158	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about the law amending the Aliens Act and the law on granting international protection to aliens. The previous speaker spoke of the explanatory memorandum, but if we go back there, there is no explanatory memorandum to this law. Now the question is whether it hasn't been there or whether it's been taken from here. And once it's taken from here, we can't discuss it today because the hall hasn't presented all the documents that should be. Members of the Commission may be able to say something about this, but for the first time I am reading a bill that does not have an explanatory statement. The other side is that we have a Commission waitress saying that a debate can be held. Of course, a debate can be held. But I do not believe that the President has discussed that there is just one debate, but that the draft will be discussed at first, second and third readings. There's not much left of this bill that the previous government brought to the hall at first reading. When the second reading came as well as the new law, it would have made sense to interrupt the second reading and propose improvements. The sentence that you can ask for and give speeches, yes, but we can't propose any corrections. This is very important when, in fact, the content of one law has been changed by almost 90%. Let's start with the first part of the law that we mentioned at second reading here on the speaker's desk. That's when the war started. The corrections between the third and second readings also do not state when the war began. The war actually started in spring 2014, when the Russian Federation's armed forces occupied and annexed Crimea. It is simply stated in this law that the date of February 24 is where the topic of war refugees begins. Here is where I would also like to say a little to the journalists that the law must be read, not to listen to the stories of politicians. This law does not confer any advantages on war refugees who, from 24 February to this day, have come to Estonia from Ukraine. They have perfectly normal conditions, just like any Estonian citizen. He can be hired with a minimum wage. He's getting all the benefits. But what's going to get worse? It is made worse that those who were [here] before 24 February will no longer have to pay the average Estonian salary, and they can be paid 0.8% of the average wage. Yes, an extension of up to three years will be granted. Perhaps it is possible to bring migrant workers to Estonia three times more than before. No one wants to talk about it. Because we know that there is European Union protection for war refugees and there should be no problem here. The next topic is a husband and a close relative. From what the Commission's waitress said, I did get the feeling that he was thinking backwards, suddenly so that he was close before, now he was married when he answered the questions. In fact, the situation is quite different: we do not know exactly what this close relative is. Is it one husband or several husbands? We didn't get an answer to that. Are these kids, are they parents? What about the grandparents, the uncles and their children? This question... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U159	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U160	This question remained unanswered because the question could be asked once, it was not possible to ask the question to be specified. If this is the way the laws are discussed here and so the agreements are made to make a completely new draft first-reading draft; in second-reading, it is not usually interrupted, so that improvements can be made, fundamental improvements are made between second-reading and third-reading, and so the law is proclaimed, then the question arises whether this is possible. I hope that if the chairman of the committee comes to this address after me, he will also answer the question whether or not this law has an explanatory statement. If there's an explanatory statement, where's the explanatory statement? It's not in this hall. And if there is a physical explanatory statement on this bill, I say that there is a clear violation of order today. If the explanatory statement doesn't have to be here, I'm sorry. However, I hope clearly that the debate does not just mean a second reading, where we had the opportunity to make speeches, but a real substantive debate arises because we are able to propose amendments, to discuss them in the Commission and in this large Chamber again, and only then to reach decisions as to whether this draft law is good and whether it will actually help the Ukrainian people who have fled from the war, or those Ukrainians who were already working in Estonia before 24 February, and what impact this bill will have on the Estonian economy, Estonia's migration policy and Estonia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U161	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U162	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say right now, as an initiative, that this criticism of the procedure in this Chamber is predominantly charged with the fact that it is inability to defend the programme positions of its party; 99% of the criticism is due to it. This can also be clearly concluded by looking at these negotiations, which are focused on what we really should not be negotiating today. If we take this yellow book, to which you repeatedly and repeatedly refer, today we should actually talk during the negotiations about the motives for not declaring the law. Period. That's what the yellow book says. But it doesn't bother. The yellow book won't bother you if you don't have to. So, in this sense, you could still be a little more specific than interpreting and reading all this yellow book. So if you don't like the picture, good friends, you don't have to blame the mirror. However, I would like to focus on what the yellow book states and commands. That is, to the President of the Republic's decision of 21 April, which dismissed the Aliens Act. And perhaps a little more clarification for our good teachers, leaders and colleagues: we are not talking about the bill today. It's a small thing. But because we don't do it often. It's not a reproach, I've read it myself, that's why I know exactly: we're talking about the law. Parliament has adopted this law and we will discuss this law again, whether or not we will adopt it unchanged. We're not talking about a bill. The President of the Republic has pointed out that the replacement of the word "husband" with the word "close relative" in § 1552 of the Act leads to a specific complaint from the President of the Republic to amend the scope of the provision. However, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I disagree here. In particular, the statement of the President of the Republic could only be accepted if it were based on the assumption that the provision, unchanged, would have been implemented only by grammatical interpretation. Since the residence permit granted to settle with a close relative is neither attached to the spouse nor in any other part of the Aliens Act, nor can it be, since the spouse is not a close relative of the right-hand side of the bench row was drawn to the attention of the spouse in the round of questions, this condition, or because of the activity or inactivity of the spouse in the section referred to in the end of the temporary residence permit, can never arrive. I have also spoken to a few of the Supreme Judges of Estonia on this subject and asked how they would have acted in such a situation if we had not made this change between second and third readings. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, their opinion is clear: of course, they would not have been based on a spouse's actions or omissions, but precisely on the actions or omissions of a close relative, which is actually the point of this provision. In this sense, a mere grammatical interpretation is not the only way to approach it. The Supreme Court also takes the view that the text of the Act is only the starting point for determining the will of the legislator and, if there is any doubt as to the interpretation of the provision, all interpretation methods must be used, in this case not only grammatical but also the lens-teleological and systematic-logical method. The latter has to be analysed in a larger system of rules. It is thus apparent that the word "husband" does not fit in with the content of this provision, since it has no meaning in view of a subdivision, its title or a specific section, nor does it fit in. And if the residence permit is granted to live with a close relative, the residence permit can also be terminated only by the activity or inactivity of a close relative. The expiry of the temporary residence permit granted to settle with the spouse is governed by § 1471 of the Aliens Act, which is situated in the first subdivision of the Aliens Act. However, a fixed-term residence permit can be settled with a close relative is regulated in the second subdivision of Section 4 of the Aliens Act. These are independent and different divisions. One is about moving in with your spouse for a period of time and the other is about moving in with a close relative. And § 1552 regulated both before and after technical specification... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U163	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U164	... clarification of the temporary residence permit for settling with a close relative. And here I recall the line of Mart Kadastik, the editor-in-chief of the former Postman, "the context is as important as the text." Mid-term review: replacing the word 'husband' with 'close relative', which was the president's complaint, is a technical specification equivalent to correcting the reference, since it is clear from the context of the provision that this is a human error. At the same time, it is possible to identify and unambiguously understand the correct wording. Using an objective-to-teleological interpretation, the essence of which is to determine the will of the legislator, there is no doubt that the legislator has regarded the act or omission of a close relative as the basis for the revocation of § 1552's residence permit. By the way, the President of the Republic acknowledges this if [in the eyes] he has kept the text of the draft amendments in line with the legislator's supposed will. In general, the will of the legislator is, of course, expressed in a fixed form first in the text of the law, but in a second word in the explanatory memorandum of the law. The latter is clearly stated: if the temporary residence permit granted to an alien ends, the temporary residence permit granted to a close relative of his family member will end at the same time. Perhaps in this way, and in the light of the actual will of the legislator, the text of the draft third reading was also amended. Since the wording of § 1552 of the Aliens Act was amended in such a way that it corresponds to the actual will of the legislator, the amendment of the wording does not entail a change in the scope of the provision and does not create a different situation than if the draft had been implemented without changing the wording. Now, the second remark in the President's decision, which has also been pointed out in this Chamber, has distorted the parliamentary decision-making process by violating the rules of procedure and left the members of the Riigikogu essentially without the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the law. At this point, the President of the Republic must accept certain concessions. The members of the Riigikogu cannot ask questions at the third reading of the bill, they cannot speak, only the representatives of the political groups can speak, but this remark can be resolved by renegotiating this law 241, as has been repeatedly cited. Unlike the third reading of the draft, all members of the Riigikogu can ask questions again when they wish to speak. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, do not underestimate the vote. In my opinion, in order to say: the possibility of being involved in legislative drafting is only the possibility of proposing improvements, which has been said repeatedly here, because [in fact these are] amendments, it is now a completely incomprehensible reduction of its own powers. Once again, these are radically different opportunities for Members to participate in the legislative process. And, of course, whether this is effective or not, it will eventually become clear at the vote. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, here are also references to what has been repeatedly said that no one has ever corrected the explanatory statement. First reading has its own explanatory memorandum, second reading has its own explanatory memorandum and third reading has its own explanatory memorandum. explanatory notes shall not be copied one by one. And even at third reading, the explanatory statement is, in itself, optional, it doesn't necessarily have to be there. So, ladies and gentlemen, in view of your party's programme objectives, you have made an elephant out of breath, in fact the President has made only one reproach, the replacement of the word 'husband' with the word 'close relative', that is the only one. Two other comments are indeed due to this technical clarification, which is why I call for this law to be adopted unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U165	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker spoke of an elephant that doesn't exist. But I'm talking about the elephant that's here. But I was forced by the pathetic saying of Mart Võrguship. His statement concerned paragraph 47 of the Bill, which states: "A citizen of Ukraine who was in Estonia before 24 February 2022." Maybe he also has a special right to stay here. What did Mart Networker say? It's inhuman to force them to leave now. But then we'll shut down the Estonian Defence Forces. Serving is inhuman. It is inhumane to serve in the Ukrainian Defence Forces. Helping the Ukrainian internally displaced people, if they are helped by the men who worked here before 24th, is inhumane. No, you gotta be on the stove! You have to lie on your bag! You gotta put porridge in your mouth with a spoon! Now that's helping Ukraine's defence capabilities. Hey, get down on the ground! You have an elephant and several elephants in this bill. Right now, we're undermining defence, the defence of Ukraine, by the fact that we're here for the 5300 men who have come here, let's say there's porridge, here's a spoon, manna porridge in your mouth, okay? You need to have an adventure while others are fighting for life and death. No, you need to have an adventure! Over 80% of them were men. And I don't think the invalids are going to come to construction work here, who can't do anything. Yes, the disabled have the right to receive that protection. Children, of course, and women. But what is that thing? It's one of the exciting, deserters' praises and putting porridge in their mouths. It's undermining. That's the elephant they're dealing with. We have 5,300 men, of whom I believe 90% are capable of helping their country. Home countries not only help with a gun in their hands, but also help with employment and helping people. We have a transport obligation, we have a duty to work in Estonian law. So, what do you think, we send three-quarters of the men to Sweden, Finland on a large white ship, and then the rest stay to fight for life and death? That's the way it works. It's an elephant in the room, and this pathetics is in the wrong place that the Gridship brought out to force them to leave now is inhumane. We are talking about combatable men who have been invited home by Ukraine and who are required by law. It's not just an invitation, it's a duty to fight for your country. And everyone who has not learned how to carry a weapon has a duty to help women and children, internally displaced people, on the ground, to help sow crops so that the country survives. That's the question. So there is more than one mistake in this law, and I think that this mistake too is so big that the President should send it back because we have no obligation to give defence service men so-called asylum. No, it's not! We have a duty to help them fight and act to protect their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U167	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U168	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! "Long made pretty" is usually such a good expression, but a quickie like that doesn't go too fast. And I immediately remembered the words of Pärnu's artist Belka: considering all the pros, there will be a minus. Well, I'm quoting it from the beginning, maybe. "I take from life everything I can take out of life, it really sucks. Someone's been wearing a lucky shirt since birth, while you've got a bigger shirt since birth. Playing the innocent is the easiest way, I'll just make it through using it. I'm gonna find a place to be on sale at the right time, when it's over, I'm gonna go eat everybody else's nerves. " Then the third verse comes, and there is this: "Considering all the pros, the minus comes together. " It is. Do we know how to put together time? If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent this second-reading matter to us in this Chamber and he would have interrupted it, it would have come into force a long time ago as a law. No, we delayed that moment, and nothing worked out. Well, now it came that President 23 or what he was there, April, didn't announce, sent back. Today we have May 9th. So, what happens now? Is there a problem down? I say I actually have a problem. My constituents will contact me. My constituents asked me, hey, I read about Zeitung that you are now opposed to those Ukrainian war refugees. Well, if Zeitung writes like that, it's obviously a yes. Obviously, no, we don't want to believe it, it can't be possible for you to picket in front of the Russian embassy every week, no matter what the weather is, and you'd just be against those refugees to tell me what this is about. Well, I described the situation. People said that's pretty sneaky. In the shadow of war refugees, or under the cover, some kind of shit was rolled up. We heard what they said about employers being all so happy. Then who are we gonna do the law for? Are we doing this to war refugees who do not need this law because they have international protection, or are we doing this to our employers? Then do employers really agree with this pipe-peep-peep that's all screwed up, and there's nothing? 'Cause somebody thought, uh, let's do it, put a roller in the power position, or make it numb. I'm really glad, or, well, "ugly" isn't a good word, but I'm really glad that today's president has a legal advisor, because the last one just didn't, and we were in very strange situations. Good Hent-Raul Kalmo, good Ülle Madise, good Alar Karis and good Janar Holm! Members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the procedure. It has not been resolved. The Commission rapporteur himself interpreted it in such a way that, if amendments cannot be tabled, they could at least speak. When I was young, I always liked to hear the news that with the actor's illness, the show is off, but you can go see another show. It seemed like, well, what do you mean now? But we did a story like this with our band right away that, due to the train driver's illness, the train ride of Tallinn would be cancelled, but you would be able to travel to Tamsalu for the same thing. Something has also been proposed. Where are the negotiations? Who negotiated with us, didn't they? We're in a situation where someone says it needs to be accepted. The President said: members of the Riigikogu have not been able to participate in this process and we cannot do so in the form of amendments. There is no need for the President to go to court with this thing, so every member of the Riigikogu can go. Priit went when we were sent there for telework, and I said that wasn't possible. But it turns out it's possible. If you have your voices together, we'll put chicken in the beehive. With force, as they say in the Defence League. So, the problem is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U169	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U170	No, I don't want any more time. And I'm saying it's not a proper procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U171	Heiki Hepner, please! [[Heiki Hepner asks for an extra three minutes.]] Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The changes that the coalition has introduced into the law in breach of the law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu are not random, but are the implementation of a definite ideology. It is really interesting to hear the interpretation that one question and the possibility of speaking from a chair are replacing amendments. If so, it is a good step towards the Russian State Duma. And then it becomes clear why the coalition considers this to be a conflict in Ukraine. In other words, the coalition believes there is a civil war in Ukraine. If so, I believe that everyone who pushes the green button today has already taken the bronze soldier cloves or hastened to do so immediately after the vote. In today's security situation, it is incredible dishonesty and irresponsibility that the Ukrainian war will be used to realise its ideology. The Constitution of Roadroll Policy, the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the opposition and the President are unprecedented vile. The coalition has come up with a package of Brezhnev, where the policy of foreigners has been fundamentally rewritten instead of helping the Ukrainian refugees. It is simply incredible that 0.8 and 1.5 are considered by the coalition to be greater than 1.0 and 2.0. These are the salary numbers that the law reduces. Now the coalition thinks it's the high-paid one-and-a-half average wage. A really high-paying man. How can fair remuneration for short-term labour be maintained if people's wages are reduced? In fact, all of this has a direct impact on Estonia's entire wage policy and wages, unfortunately in the direction of lowering wages. So the coalition thinks our people are getting paid too high. And lowering wages is a fight against high prices, against inflation. If people's purchasing power becomes nonexistent, inflation will stop, but the consumer price index will decrease, as neither services nor goods can be bought anymore. A particularly cynical approach. Now there's the substantive changes that the president sent back the law. A close relative is embodied in the term "husband." Close relatives or, as the law states, close relatives are considered brothers, sisters, parents and children, as well as grandparents and uncles and aunts. The husband is not a relative at all. He is a tribe. But now an equal sign of one movement is placed between a relative and a tribe. The change made in the war in Ukraine is also a substantive change. Originally, the text (referendan) was "due to the military conflict that began on 24 February 2022'. Although this wording on the Ukrainian war and Russia's gross aggression had failed, it was essentially converted into a civil war in Ukraine. After all, it is clear that Russia's fierce aggression cannot be a civil war in Ukraine. If this is not a change of substance, what is it, ladies and gentlemen? The representative of the Commission, Tõnis Mölder, introduced the rejected law, said that if a person loses honesty, he loses everything. The question arises as to whether honesty will be lost by those who vote in favour unchanged, and also by the President, if he then approves it. Or will the President lose his honesty in the eyes of the coalition if he dares not declare the law again? This is actually the key point in today's vote. This bill has problems in both its content and its form. This is not bad, it is very bad legislation that we are doing here today. Those who vote in favour of this law really lose their honesty, and thus everyone. This is an incredible wish for the coalition, especially in today's security situation. I call for not to violate the Constitution, not to lose honesty and not to adopt it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U173	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must first agree with what Mr Kivimägi said about this remote control. I also believe that the debate that is going on here today is not substantive, but is still very heavily politically charged. And all the criticism that is being made about this bill is very strongly politically charged. I think that this is not bad in this sense, different political parties, different political forces must have different visions of certain things in the world. But I think, once again, that what Parliament did on 11 April when it adopted this law, as I said in my speech or emphasised several times in my presentation: I do not know any law that is so strong behind the support of trade unions and business organisations. Plus, we also want to help war refugees in trouble. That, in my opinion, should be a great and common goal for all of us. In fact, it seems to me that here we do not have any differences of opinion and this acute political charge. Coming specifically to the debate on this draft, I say that indeed, the President did nothing but take advantage of the opportunity that the Constitution gives him. I quoted several times what the President's representatives in the Commission told us. Once again, the President did not have any substantive objection to this draft. His accusations were of a technical nature, in that it was of a technical nature, that his complaints were to this procedural process and not to the content of the draft. But your reproaches, good opposition politicians, are specific to the substance of the bill. It's a political undertone that shouldn't be. Now, about the procedure that is in this Chamber today. This is based exactly on the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Why did I come here? In order for us all to understand in the same way, there is a big one, say, well, I am not going to say the word, but criticism, let us say the beautiful word 'criticism', in the direction that Members cannot table amendments. I would argue that Members will have this opportunity if Parliament's great will is decided in this way in accordance with the Home and Working Rules Act. If this is not decided by the Grand Chamber of Parliament... At this point, however, I call on everyone not to take such a decision, because I believe that this draft is urgent and really needs to be adopted, because I emphasised, before many times, what are the main arguments and interest groups that are really waiting for this draft to be adopted. However, if this draft is not adopted unchanged, i.e. it does not receive a majority in the large Chamber, it will happen that this draft will be granted an apology of 10 working days, even more by 23 May of the deadline for amendments. It will then be possible for every Member to come back to his or her amendments, but then it will not be any more, good Members, not a technical debate, as it should be today, but a substantive debate. Then clearly you will have this political vigour more often and more often. Then we have seen all kinds of tricks where hundreds, if not thousands, of non-essential amendments appear. And a good bill runs in the sand. I do not think that this would be fair to those who are actually expecting this bill in relation to the Estonian economy, but it would be very cynical to those war refugees who are actually expecting help from the Estonian state. Once again, dear Members, I call on you to support this bill in the form that it has come to this great Chamber today. I know that the President will certainly take a look at all the debate that has been in this big hall. Just as his representatives in the Commission promised us, they will really bring it back into the debate. And if they find that there is nothing unconstitutional in this process, then the President will announce this draft. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U175	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U176	And if the President finds that there is something unconstitutional here, then he will not announce it and then it will be the Supreme Court's decision. But once again, we will come back to this big hall with this bill in terms of political content, and this bill will still be adopted. In this sense, it is not worth encouraging these hopes that this bill will not become a law one day. Yes, he can! Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure will allow this, and certainly the coalition ambassadors will use it. Once again, this is a good draft, and the criticism you are making today of both the chairman of our committee, the members of the committee and the coalition ambassadors is not substantive, but is politically loaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U177	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U178	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Good Tõnis! Don't start your speech by quoting a freak who is probably not the author of this quote himself. From that point on, the debate went straight to shit. This guy's lying like he's smoking his mouth, and he had a quote about honesty. He lied from the very beginning about the fact that there is no term in the Aliens Act that is in dispute, that is close relatives. And then there's no need to listen to him at all, because there's no wise word coming from him. It's a start that determines a lot. I would like to sum up briefly what you tried to say at length in your speech and Thomas, both of you. Actually, what's the debate? I am quoting here the President of the Riigikogu, not this empty-ass. He read paragraphs 113 and 114, as a guide to us in the Rules of Procedure Act, that the debate is only about the motives why the President sent the draft back, but only about it. But what did the Riigikogu say here? It was all bullshit, it was all over the subject, basically lying again. If we're missing the subject, it's equal to lying and twilight. The president's motive for returning was to say briefly that he felt it was debatable whether this amendment was technical or not, whether it could be done before the third reading. And because of this dispute, he has the impression that members of the Riigikogu were deprived of their decision-making power. And he gave us that right again. Please discuss! Today we have the opportunity to decide the same thing in the clear knowledge that we are deciding on. Not as if hidden by the change made before the third reading, but as a result of a long debate, which I think Thomas and Tõnis have drawn up with sufficient precision, although a little bit longer. So let's not defend the Riigikogu's decision-making powers. Let's not talk. Let's not talk. Let's vote on whether we all understand the law in the same way. And only in this way has it been possible to understand it from the beginning, as it is now written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U179	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U180	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Let us perhaps start with the fact that on 11 April Parliament did not adopt this law, essentially simply the coalition pushed this law through, and the opposition did not have any means to contribute to this law. Let us recall the original nature of this law. The previous government prepared this law. This law was designed to limit migratory pressure from third countries; to clarify who we have students and, if they do not learn, to expel them; to limit the admission of citizens, tribesmen, relatives, anyone in Estonia who arrived under the sign of students. The new government took out the law that was put on the shelf, changed the idea of 180 degrees, and we received such a fine new law encouraging mass immigration, which we no longer had any say in changing. Now, here in the remote and, unfortunately, in the extremely unprofessional press of Estonia, there are still thoughts that it would somehow be Ukrainian war refugees. Ukraine's war refugees have nothing to do with this law. There's no connection. They don't have to be helped because we're already helping them. They have international protection. The fact that the Reform Party is lying and dimming around it, as if we were doing some huge deed and tearing out tears, is disgustingly cynical behavior. But what is directly related to this law is the extremely bad economic policy of the Reform Party. The Reform Party has led Estonia to lead the list of the worst countries in the European Union. Statistics, there is nothing to do, there is no way to reject the 19% inflation rate. Congratulations, money launderers! What are the effects of this law if you reroll it? Cheap slave workers take away any innovation. I understand that it is extremely useful for Estonian entrepreneurs to employ people to whom they do not have to pay even close to the salary that the Estonian contractor asks for. There is no need to invest in technology, there is no need to pay a decent salary. But if wages fall, what's the first thing? Falling pensions, friends. That's the idea that we need a new workforce. Can you imagine that these Ukrainian or, I don't know, Angolan slaves who are brought here will not grow old, that they will work as a man, and when they reach retirement age, they will return to their home anise? No, I'm not. They stay here on exactly the same basis as the Estonian contractors. They will become a greater burden, and this burden will increase for our social sector more than if we did not call them here now. Estonian employment is falling. With regard to the refugees, with all sympathy and sympathy for these refugees last Wednesday, when there was another protest, I spoke to one lady, a Russian national person who came here from Jõhvi or Kohtla-Järve, I don't remember exactly. He said Kohtla-Järve... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U181	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U182	Thank you. The Russian-speaking people of Kohtla-Järve are amazed. They're losing jobs today. Today. Because, for example, people who are willing to work for half the salary are being replaced in shops. I asked what you were doing. He said, "We don't know. We expect some position from the government, some kind of explanation. " But they have already developed a little despair. And the worst part is, by this law, we're changing the balance of our population. We already have a greater influx of Slavic citizens today than was the case during the Soviet occupation. Estonians become minorities over the years they have been counted. And that is something that contradicts the spirit of our constitution. And by voting in favour of this law for the sake of the Constitution, treason has been committed. There has been a betrayal of the oath made by a member of the Riigikogu right here on the remote. Basically, it's treason. In view of the food chain of the Reform Party, this is, of course, extremely beneficial and beneficial. So you shouldn't think you can roll it over here calmly. The courts will discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U183	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. For my part, I would also like to thank our President for not having announced this law. A good colleague, Jaak White, as well as other colleagues, Aivar Kokk and Tarmo Kruusimägi, all have, in essence, criticised it enough. I am not focusing on this, but I will take the same subject that I raised here last time we discussed it. Perhaps what is happening in Ukraine and how to define or define it? It says here in § 30914 of the Act due to the military conflict in Ukraine since 24 February 2022... " What does it say? It says what's going on in Ukraine, what it is. This is not Russia's aggression against Ukraine, it is not Russia's widespread assault on Ukraine. These two definitions would be the only right one and the only possible one that we could have put into this law. If we had handled it properly, we would have been able to make these amendments nicely here, too, and we would not have this problem. But what does it say now? Some kind of conflict in Ukraine. It is from this concept that it is understood that there is an armed internal conflict, after all, the Russian side since 2014, when the Russian war against Ukraine actually started, always tried to argue. Unfortunately, many Western politicians went along with this. What is the reason why President Zelenski does not want to invite the President of Germany, Steinmeier, to Ukraine? It is simply the reason that, as German Foreign Minister, he did not recognise the true nature of this war then. It was not the separatists who hit the Ukrainian troops hard in Debaltsevo and Ilovaisk. They were still Russian troops, it's been that way from the beginning. And now that we're dealing with the same aggression or massive assault, we can't write anything like that in this law. This is the biggest war in Europe since World War II. If we sum up all the war losses that the warring parties claim and add the losses of the civilian population in Ukraine, then the total amount of losses that have been killed will approach 100,000 people. The military conflict is defined by the Swedish Centre for Defence Studies SIPRI since the death of 1000 people. Then it's a military conflict. Military conflicts occur within countries as a rule, i.e. civil wars, riots, armed internal battles. There is no such thing in Ukraine. And this is not the definition we should be writing here, much less we should not be dealing with today, on 9 May, when Putin is making speeches about the special military operations that Russia is conducting in Ukraine. We couldn't go along with this. I therefore call on you to correct this law, not to support it now, to interrupt this procedure and not to proceed with it in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U185	Mart Helme, please! A request for a rejoinder? Let's get Mr. Helme to say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U186	Dear Vice-Chairman, the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber and who are behind the screens? There has been so much lying here today, so much crammed, that it shames both liars and vampires, Parliament and our country as a whole. There's no mention here that it's some kind of war refugee bill. The problem of war refugees has been solved, they are under international protection. They live much better than the ordinary Estonian person. For now. The future is, of course, dark. But they have many privileges that ordinary Estonians do not have, starting with health insurance and ending with a permanent income. This bill has nothing to do with war refugees, so it would be awkward to draw such a lie in this hall. That's one. Secondly, this bill is not an old draft, but it is turned upside down by the current coalition, a draft initiated by the Estonian Conservative People's Party on the initiative of the previous government, aimed at controlling immigration, labour migration, the implementation of people's work in the Republic of Estonia. This bill has turned on its head and has essentially opened Estonia's doors to migration from all over the world, as it hopes that the President will have a backbone so that he will not let the present coalition mock him and this time he will not declare this law. What was the point of this illegal amendment when the word "husband" was replaced by another definition? But the point was that those people whose family traditions, whose having several women whose large families are different from ours, could bring [their relatives] to Estonia. After all, this is a bill that allows the third world to take over Estonia, to turn Estonia into a territory that, although called Estonia, is clearly outnumbered by indigenous people, Estonians, in a few decades' time. But maybe a few decades is even too long to give the process a perspective, because we are seeing almost 3% of the foreign population in Estonia in two and a half months. Three percent! It is also a discriminatory draft, I look at our Russian ambassadors in the face, it is clearly a discriminatory draft against them, their families, their national companions, because they have worked hard to learn the Estonian language, have worked hard to gain citizenship, has worked hard to find a place in this society after the break-up of the Soviet Union, where they are respected. This bill discriminates against these people. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me how the Centre Party can... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U187	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U188	...to support this bill. And if the leaders of the Centre Party think they're bringing tens of thousands of new voters here right now, well, then it's a completely ridiculous illusion. That's not gonna happen. Let's take a broader look at these demographic processes. An undefined number of people who are not war refugees have also come to Estonia today. 3,9 million people have allegedly left Russia in the last few months. Ukraine in the order of 5 million, Russia in 3.9 million. Statistics say that a considerable number of them have come to Estonia. How many of them have moved on from here, we don't know, we don't have a pretty accurate picture. But we can see that Estonia's demographic picture has changed considerably in the last two and a half months, and it can at some point change our social, political and economic and geopolitical situation. Of course, we can't look out for things like this. And finally, for the preliminary conclusion. It is discriminatory to Ukraine when it comes to the Ukrainian refugee war. Because if women of predominantly fertile age have left Ukraine with their children, what will happen to the demographic situation in Ukraine in the 10, 15 and 20 years perspective? It's a demographic collapse. It should not be in our interest, as one of the previous speakers said, to think of them as a labour force. That's particularly cynical, by the way. It's cynical! We should only think of them as really people who will get shelter and protection from us, but whom we will help to go back to rebuild our homeland, to ensure the demographic sustainability of our homeland and to show that they are Ukrainian patriots. That should be our task, not that we are talking about labour. And now for the end. The brutal trampling of the law by the present coalition is the ultimate warning sign. This means that the current government is paving the way for a situation in which it is no longer possible to make a legitimate policy in Parliament, because in breach of the law, the government is rolling over any opposition. This is extremely dangerous because it will lead to politics on the street sooner or later. But if he goes into the street and gets out of control, blood will flow. I don't want to scare or threaten anyone. I want to call on you to think about it. What do you do, esteemed coalition? What do you do in terms of Estonian nationality, state, our political system, our demography, justice and justice? Think! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U189	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U190	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U191	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U192	Thank you. Well, these arguments, in particular, against the substance of the law, have all already sounded here. I would like to open this objection from a slightly different angle to the way this law has been handled and to the way in which we are explained why everything is very well. Our party is known for talking about Estonia as a phenomenon that is called a deep state. He has not been given various explanations and meanings, perhaps the simplest or most understandable is when we talk about the lack of civil control over security authorities. The way this law is passed is not a deep state, it's a dork. It's a federal state. We have before us a process of the law unfolded in a way that maybe is familiar with some 18th-century absolutistic, I don't know, some smaller German princely state. Just the power wants, declares that it is, declares that all things that prevent or prohibit it do not really prevent or prohibit it. You stupid people, including the President, do not understand what the sycamores written in clear Estonian really mean. It can, it can, it has to go on like this! It's a no-brainer. I get pissed off every time, especially when liberals start giving speeches about the rule of law, we still have the rule of law, and we have to trust the courts and everything else. We are now seeing how the rule of law does not work, how the large Chamber of Parliament throws the most basic principles of the rule of law into the trash bin, how the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu simply whistles on the principles of the rule of law. Pupill doesn't move either, when they explain to us how it's all right, it's all supposed to be, so you can do that. What you read in the Rules of Procedure, what you read in the Constitution, does not all mean what the Estonian words there say to you, that means something quite different. You've got it all wrong. Well, we still have some mechanisms in place, the President rejected this law the first time, refused to declare it, rejected us. This could have caused some humility in Parliament, in this very Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in this very large Chamber. If once you've been fooled into this pile that the coalition has done by a majority, maybe the second time you don't do the same thing? But it has not given rise to this humility. On the contrary, we are now told not to worry, the President will announce. Well, maybe they will, maybe they won't. I sincerely hope that the President will send it to the Supreme Court, and I am sure that if he sends it to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will not declare this law. For there is no way to say that these arguments, or those arguments, or the warnings that led to the failure to declare the law the first time, were not before; no one heard. All the arguments had gone through before, had been to the committee, had been to the large hall, had been to the board of the Riigikogu, had been to the political groups. These obstacles to such processing of this law were well - known to all; they simply put the dullness in the most basic way. They say black is white and white is black, and if you don't like it, that's your problem. And that's what I call it. 25. [February], the day after Russia invaded Ukraine, the Prime Minister arranged for the leaders of the political parties of the Riigikogu to sit with him, discussing how to achieve, in a changed security situation, a lower internal political temperature, or some sort of domestic peace. After all, the topics that went through there, which have broken up Estonian society or had a quarrel for a long time, are known to all of us as the Corona theme, immigration issue, national defence issues. And it was quite clear, I said quite clearly to this Kaja Kallas, that if, in the shadow of the Ukrainian war, the government is pushing mass immigration into Estonia, forget about the peace of the house, no peace of the home cannot be achieved. Today, the government is working on this specific bill, but also on other draft laws, it is also dealing with the Russification of Estonia, the mass replacement of the Estonian people, the elimination of the right to host Estonians in this country, the termination of the tasks of the state in the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution. It is not possible to want any domestic peace in such a situation. No way! In fact, today's government has declared war on Estonia. And in the preaching of this war, of course, the first thing, as they always say, the first victim of war is the truth. And the truth that tells us how to deal with the law in such a way that the law is dealt with legally has been sacrificed in this Chamber. It was sacrificed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has been sacrificed once in this Chamber, and I am afraid we will see today for the second time how it will be sacrificed. We got home peace for a few weeks, maybe. And that's where the peace at home ended. Well, what the hell. If the government has declared war on half of the country or on that part of the country, who wants to live by the constitution, who really wants the rule of law, who really wants us to have the Constitution in force, then so it is. And you're going to see, even in the budgetary process, how this peace of the house can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U193	Tarmo Kruusimäe, you had a wish before the rejoinder. My apologies for not giving you the floor right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U194	Thank you, good vice chairman. When the idea of a mosquito being an elephant sounded here today, I remembered 2020 as soon as the President failed to announce the so-called cluster bill that we wanted to meet the people with. We did not know what the economic consequences of this pandemic were. And on that occasion, I also thought that, in the same way, we must save both the President's face and the Riigikogu's face, because for incomprehensible reasons the President did not declare the matter. Yeah, at that point, the problem was that volunteers who have already been trained in advance in different ministries are the number 1247, which was one of the number 24 hours and seven days a week, that if there are more calls and people can't, they'll be volunteers too. A major problem at the time was that those volunteers who have already received training start to get mad about personal data. As it turned out, there was no possibility, this system did not offer such an opportunity. This was also understood by the opposition ambassadors. But the questions were all exactly the same. Now people who may remember and have a two-year-old memory can see that today is a completely different issue. Today, it was not about the assumption that someone might go crazy somewhere, but about the fact that the ambassadors have been deprived of the opportunity to participate in this process. People have asked me, " Why don't you do something about it? " I ask what I take. "But you're being misbehaved. " I said that it is not for this reason that dignified ambassadors do not have to misbehave when the coalition behaves badly with the opposition. Let's stay dignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U195	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U196	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Some time ago, a good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, made a number of suggestions to marry young women aged 10, 11, 12 and some of these. And when the word 'husband' was suddenly replaced by 'close relative' in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I wondered what Thomas was thinking about it. If I marry any old woman or any man, he'll never be my cousin. There is a clear difference between relatives and tribesmen. That was one of the moments why the President of the Republic brought such voluntaristic behaviour between second and third readings, not in the announcement. But if you look at this bill as a whole, what does it really mean? He was presented on 14 September 2020 and on 10 March this year, in 2022 he was taken out and turned upside down. A new number was also put out, of course, but of course no plans were made, as this is urgent. Well, there was a war, some say we have a war here. And as usual, they came up with this thing. I'm not going to talk about its contents, of course it's a death blow to the nation state. But at the same time, I get the sense of a lot of colleagues sitting on the left side of this place, after all, it would be a long time ago to dig this preamble out. The main thing is that life is plump and calm, you can do your business, and so on. To talk about some nation state and all that, it's time and time. It takes a cheap labour force, just as in all lands, no matter what color their skin color is, who is willing to come with a poorer salary [for work]. By the way, I talked to a couple of farmers who said, you see, it's 2022, but you can't find strawberry pickers. Gel nails are long and we don't have the custom in Kiev and Harkov. That's it. But the bottom line is, I totally understand the pushers of this bill to fuck this nation state. Basically, life is plump and flower and cheap labor is needed by anyone, even in nursing homes or anywhere. We also want to feel like a so-called white person. I'm sorry for the expression. Well, that's what they say. Now, if you look at this whole thing from a broader perspective, we just had the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, here who spoke about his beautiful year's summary. In addition, Priit Pikamäe, who happened to be the head of the Supreme Court before that, came. There was an expert opinion on legislation last year, and it was devastating. It was devastating: without the intention to develop, without impact analyses, well, the wording, not to mention the word in bird's language. However, what was important was this talk about last year's drafts, which the esteemed experts appreciated, about our outturns, that nine out of ten cases were not compatible with the Constitution. In doing so, the draft was always in conformity with European Union law. It was primary. This Priit Pikamägi was astonished. But does he also comply with the Estonian Constitution? Nine out of ten cases didn't answer. One quote, promise me. "The laws, which have already been amended several times in the past, are characterised by a tendency that does not simply relate to these laws, but is a negative characteristic of the Estonian legal order and legislation as a whole. In so far as the constant amendment of the laws, particularly in situations where the legal quality of the amendments leaves considerable scope to be desired..."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U197	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U198	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U199	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U200	... complicates the practical adaptation of the law and creates additional legal disputes that could be avoided. " That's what Priit Pikamäe says last year when he assessed the quality of all our creations, that we're usually making a mistake. This is one such example of this now this year. And that's what's important. At this point, they're just numbing, coming back with the same thing, and, of course, the roller is pushing over them. But what does it mean in the long run? Well, why don't we just take it easy? Right now, we're gonna get hit by a roller, no doubt. But I'm pretty sure soon that company will be on the road. And it'd be good if it was just a roller coaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U201	Helir-Valdor Seeder. Mr. Seeder, I think you've already made a speech. Or? Mr. Seeder?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U202	Yes, Mr President, of course I have delivered a speech. I gave my first speech on behalf of the group, and now I speak on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U203	You won't be able to keep it twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U204	How?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U205	No, you won't be able to keep it twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U206	But what do you mean it's not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U207	No, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U208	But why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U209	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U210	But why isn't that? When introducing the processing of the item, it was said that members of the Riigikogu can all take the floor, in addition to representatives of committees and political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U211	We're about to check it out, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U212	Yeah, please check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U213	However, according to memory, if a member of the Riigikogu makes a speech on behalf of a group, he has delivered his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U214	Where does it say that? That's what we have on the agenda...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U215	It's always been like this. But we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U216	Here you go, look. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, when a member of the Riigikogu is given the authority to speak on behalf of the Commission, for example, and as a result does not lose the opportunity to speak on his own behalf. It makes perfect sense. Makes sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U217	We've been holding this line before, so...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U218	No, I don't know what happened earlier. On what basis are you now preventing a member of the Riigikogu from giving a speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U219	I'm not stopping right now, we're trying to... You're on the remote now, so don't worry about it. We'll get this straight and see. [Paragraph] 114 (2) really speaks of being members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U220	Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U221	Yeah. Political groups...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U222	I have spoken on behalf of the group, but not on my own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U223	We are trying to see if we have really had this practice in the past. I understand the Commission, but if we assume that there is a Commission representative...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U224	I do not represent any committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U225	Easy, easy! I just, let me finish now, don't interrupt now! I say that if we have really come from this, that the representative of the committees has spoken, and then the person can also speak on his own behalf at second reading, then I assume that this is the case now. So please, just tell me and let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U226	Thank you. You see, after all, parliamentary democracy wins. Freedom of speech! The word is free! But thank you, Mr President. I actually came to this remote control to make some objections to the unfair accusations that have been made here in the course of the negotiations on behalf of opposition ambassadors and ambassadors of the Fatherland Party. First of all, the complaint that the speeches have been politically loaded. Well, of course it's been politically loaded. It would be very strange if this were not the case in Parliament, especially given the procedure of this draft, where the members of the Riigikogu were deprived of the opportunity to design the draft law, as the President's representative in the Commission has claimed, and the President, when he sent the draft back, has said that the members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of the right to design the law. Then it is entirely justified that we would also like to talk here about the content of the draft, not just the form and procedure. Now, the complaint is also that the opposition ambassadors are therefore talking so seriously and essentially about the failure to defend their programming positions. And 99% are said to be due to it. Well, I can assure you that the President of the Republic of Estonia has not yet been implemented to implement the programme objectives of the Fatherland. On this basis, the President has not sent this draft back. I read in this message a clear pressure on the President that if he does not declare the law, he will be treated as a political voter. I very much hope that the President will not be subjected to this extortion and pressure. Now, the political undertone. We should not talk about content, and it is only a technical draft. Well, that's an obvious appeal to the opposition ambassadors to be silent, it's an attempt to muzzle a part of the Riigikogu. The representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs says that the large hall will decide, then there will also be an opportunity to discuss the substance. Perhaps if today's vote is not adopted unchanged, then there will also be an opportunity to discuss. Well, think of the nobleness! But the fact is that the Riigikogu voted here a week ago, if you remember which bill is 51 votes, which is not 51 votes. We have already reached this point in the Riigikogu, where we decide by majority vote whether or not to comply with the law. Now that is no longer parliamentary democracy. That is not the majority that should vote in this Chamber. And that is what the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tells us. Now, let us discuss only the motives for not announcing the President. Friends, well, if it wasn't technical changes, and so it wasn't just technical changes, then it was substantive changes. That is why the President sent it back because it was substantive changes after the second reading, not linguistic ones. In the case of linguistics, everything would have been in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. And one coalition ambassador claimed that members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of their decision-making power. No, it's not that bad. We can vote here and we can decide. But once again, I stress what the President accused us of. Members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of the right to design the law. And look, here the coalition ambassadors interpret and interpret the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and wise councillors who have given legal advice to the coalition ambassadors, but this advice has been given several times in advance in the drafting of the law, and unfortunately it has not kept water, it is interpreted so that you can now ask and negotiate and that is enough. You've been able to design the bill. But look, it's not. One draft is designed in such a way that amendments are tabled, discussed and voted through. The draft law is still being drafted through amendments. And once this right has been removed, the most fundamental right has been removed from opposition ambassadors, the right to draft a bill. So, ladies and gentlemen, the only option is not to adopt this draft as it is currently unchanged and to give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to amend it and to process it in substance. Then our rights are guaranteed. I call on you to comply with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U227	[[The manager's got a mike outside.]] Well, Mr. Mölder, now you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U228	Thank you. I, too, was the same question that you have actually explained in part. Did I get it right that your interpretation was that, when I went to the front desk earlier, I was first a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a rapporteur for the draft, then I went to the front desk as a so-called ordinary Member and spoke for eight minutes, and now I am going to take the mandate from the chairman or vice-chairman of the group and come to speak on behalf of the group, and then I will agree with Mr Kivimäe that I will come back for an eight-minute speech on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Do I understand that we've opened a little bit of Pandora's box with this previous presentation? Although I say once again that Mr. Seeder we could listen to endlessly. However, I do know that our normal order and principle has still been that each member only goes to the negotiating board once. Now that we've opened this Pandora box, I'm afraid we're going to have a pretty long negotiation today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U229	Yeah, I'll explain. Let's say the formula you proposed would not be appropriate in this sense, because it is the draft drawn up by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that the third mandate cannot be obtained from Kivimägi. However, it is quite theoretically true that Article 114 of our Rules of Procedure regulates who can speak in the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may take part in the negotiations. Now, why there are committees here also in other negotiations is clearly that, when there are several committees involved, but there is one lead committee that is making a report on behalf of the Commission, we have no other way of doing so in other committees. Consequently, the representative of the committees really has the right to come during the negotiations and say, for example, the position of the Committee on Social Affairs on the draft to be moved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And then this representative of the Social Affairs Committee will really be able to come as a member of the Riigikogu and say his personal position. That's what's in this law right now. We're going to go over it. But that's how I understand it now, and I interpret it. Consequently, what Mr Ceder may have been wrong about and Mr Onion was wrong about is that we have always agreed that the representatives of the political groups should speak first. And since Priit Sibul was the first to speak of the Isamaa Group, the President of the Riigikogu, sitting here in the chair before me, I assume, assumed that Mr Sibul had given a speech as a representative of the Group. And then, when Seeder came, he didn't say he was going to make a speech on behalf of the group now. So in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, take back the fact that the political groups first speak and then the members of the Riigikogu get the floor. Consequently, everyone who comes to speak on behalf of the group is first. Or if someone comes before, because he has been more swift, he says that I do not speak on behalf of the group, that on behalf of the group he comes and speaks on behalf of the group. So in that sense, we should all get the same idea. But I really don't want to open that Pandora box any more right now. We still have Eduard Odines here who would like to come to negotiate, and then we need to get to the vote at some point. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U230	Yeah, thanks! I do understand that, just as Mr Mölder has just asked, it is possible to put forward another group, which would not be a precedent. In the past, the Riigikogu has been given the right of representation of one political group in the negotiations. This has been the case, so you can also give several speeches if you have the authority to do so. The reproach you've just made for me in public in front of this hall is certainly unfair. He should do this to his previous President, who, whenever negotiations begin, announces that there will be representatives of the political groups first and asks over. It's the manager's duty to act like this. Unfortunately, the manager acted this way this time, and the people went in silence. The President was not interested in whether anyone represented themselves or a group. So I hope that the President will take up this topic at the next Riigikogu Board meeting, discuss it and make a note to the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U231	Well, let's not throw that cat on one side of the fence. In the sense that the point is, after all, that the representatives of the political groups speak first. Isn't that right? In this sense, if someone comes from a group, and if he is not [the representative of the group], I could also say that if someone comes first from a group and does not say that he is not a representative of a group, then it is by default a presumption that he is a representative of a group. But I say let's not throw a cat over the fence like this, which way first. [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] Or a dog, the thought stays the same. In any case, it is understandable what we are talking about right now. I hope that Mr Odines now, instead of the procedure, could actually come here to the remote to talk about his... Okay. So what's the procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U232	Yeah, I don't think we should be throwing anything, cats and dogs or each other. But clarity must be in the house, especially when we are discussing the violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act in the President's opinion. How is it, though, if no Social Democrat has spoken so far and obviously not, by looking at the tabloids, can I now speak for eight minutes on behalf of the group and then I can come to the remote to talk for eight minutes as myself, just like Mr. Seeder was just using, or can I have 16 minutes now? How's that anyway? Can we finish this cat-dog game with a very clear message from the President of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U233	Yeah. The chairman of the sitting takes the liberty of not answering the question now and discussing it on the Board of the Riigikogu, looking at § 114 for a moment, as well as other procedural rules that we have in our home and working order. Then hopefully, if this question has now risen again, we will take action and review the previous practice of the Riigikogu. I believe that tomorrow, when there is a meeting of the Board of the Riigikogu, we will be able to review it quickly. But your question is well-founded. If I really read § 114 (2) expressis verbis or I'm sorry, I think it was 3. Yes, 2, it is indeed said that members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. If I read expressis verbis, I could assume that, since the committees have been given the same rights as the political groups and vice versa, the political groups have been given the same rights as the Commission, it is as if it could be assumed that a speech can be made on behalf of a group that expresses a general position, and perhaps you have a completely different view. So in order to get over here right now and still reach the negotiated speech by Eduard Odines, I leave it to myself to come back to it tomorrow or the day after we have discussed it in the Bureau. Peter Ernits, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U234	Good manager! I hear you're kind of popularizing throwing a cat or a dog over the fence. Is that a call? Or how does it go with behavioral good practice? But to come to the same previous question, how many roles can one of the Riigikogu's ambassadors still come to this talking board? On behalf of the political group, then on behalf of the Commission, then on behalf of the special committee and as an ambassador. Could it be that you can immediately ask for 32 minutes? Where's the border coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U235	Yes, Mr Ernits, as I said, we are taking away the history and practice of the Riigikogu and, let us see, we are also trying to get an interpretation of the different norms that we have here in the Rules of Procedure, that is, in this fine yellow book, and then, hopefully, come up on the board with the same and uniform practice, at least with the recommended practice. When it comes to a cat or a dog, I'm sorry, there was this really nice work called "The Celebrity Fools" about a dog. It was such an artistic exaggeration for the manager, in the sense that there was also a dog that went over the fence. But the thought remained the same. I would dare say to Mr Seeder that, when he said that the President should make this remark here, the President said that maybe the person who comes to the remote should say on whose behalf he is speaking. If you don't, you'll just come here and talk for Seeder, but Seeder doesn't want you to speak for him. Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U236	Thank you, Mr President. I have now also taken the finger of this law on work and rules of procedure, and it seems to me that you have actually hurt Mr. Seeder right now. For § 114 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states exactly how the order of negotiations is when a law not declared by the President of the Republic is renegotiated. It says nicely that first there are members of the Riigikogu for negotiation, as was the case now, and then there will be representatives of committees and political groups. Since this initial request was not made public by the performer of the Isamaa Group that he spoke on behalf of the Group, everything is correct. And when Mr Seeder came to the remote, spoke once and then spoke on behalf of the group, everything should be fine. The fact that there is such a tacit agreement, I agree with that, but since we are here so precisely following the Rules of Procedure, there is no provision for such a tacit agreement in this law. Maybe you didn't hurt Mr. Seeder right now, did you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U237	Mr Grünthal, it seems to me that you did not hear the whole debate between the President and Mr Seeder. First of all, everything you quoted has already been said by the President here several times. Secondly, the order of additions does not affect the amount. Whether [call] committees or political groups or members of the Riigikogu first hold, this is what we have usually agreed here. And this practice is that first the representatives of the political groups, then the committees and then the members of the Riigikogu take the floor Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U238	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for you, a very specific question: do you now see whether Mr Odines is currently acting on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party or is he acting on his own behalf? You didn't answer it somehow, but that would be basically very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U239	Yeah, he hasn't gotten to the remote yet, maybe he'll take his finger off at all, so that's not what we're talking about until he gets here one day and one minute. Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U240	Yes, Mr. Pevkur. I hear throwing your cat is about Celebrity Fools. I ask you, do you read Celebrity Fools often at night?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U241	It's not procedural. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U242	Thank you, Mr President. You said I didn't hear the previous debate, but I heard very well. And in that sense, I still cannot agree with you, because Mr. Onion went to the remote, he did not say that he was the representative of the Fatherland. However, if we take up this rule, the order currently has been established according to the law, so that the members of the Riigikogu, the representatives of the committees and the political groups are first. So everything was correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U243	Let's keep going. Eduard Odines, please! So I'm asking you if you represent... No, three minutes extra time, of course. But do you represent the group or do you speak for yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U244	Yes, good chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In order to avoid confusion, I specify that I represent the Social Democratic Party in the Riigikogu and represent the member of the Riigikogu Eduard Odinets, but do not represent the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although I am the vice-chairman of this committee. Now let's get down to business. Although there have been repeated calls here to speak not about the substance of the draft, but to talk about the reproach that the President did to us because of which he sent the law back and to talk about how we will respond to the President's complaints with our vote today, whether we will accept the law unchanged or send it back to Parliament for discussion, unfortunately most of the speeches still focused on content. That's why I'm gonna start a little bit on the same subject. Just as we have heard in the first debate and today, some of our colleagues see this law as a threat to Estonian language, Estonian culture. Mass labour migration is predicted, and that is what the jobs of Estonian residents occupy inexpensive labour. There have also been examples in my home town of taking jobs away from sellers in Kohtla-Järve and offering women in Ukraine half the wage. Well, I don't want to believe it. My mom's the store manager, and she's paying 600 euros to her people, a little bit after, half of it can't be paid to anyone. Even a Ukrainian doesn't come to work with that salary. In order to get some colleagues, this law sees the possibility of reviving the labour market in Estonia and providing support to Estonian employers to alleviate labour shortages, while also actuating competition in the field of employment. But both sides will hopefully see this law as an opportunity to be a supporter and aider of Ukrainian refugees, who should not burden the Estonian social system, but find a job application and contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. Of course, it would be good for dear colleagues, I have also talked about this when we passed the law, if we had two drafts instead of one. This would solve a great deal of problems in this Chamber and save us dear time together, because obviously no one has a question about helping Ukrainian refugees to quickly integrate into the Estonian labour market. The Socialists certainly have no problem with that. However, social democrats also have some concerns about relaxing wage conditions. Here today it has been repeated that, with constant applause, the trade unions welcome the adoption of this law in its unaltered state. Unfortunately, I must reject these arguments, because that is not the case. The Confederation of Trade Unions has addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its official letter and said in this letter (I quote): "The Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions supports the integration of people who have been exiled from Ukraine into the Estonian labour market as much as possible and the treatment of all Ukrainian workers on an equal footing with Estonian citizens on the labour market. However, we are of the opinion that there is no reason to simplify the current wage rules for all employees arriving in Estonia under the Aliens Act. We propose that no changes be made to remuneration requirements." The Social Democrats, of course, have their own proposals on how to proceed on this issue. We believe that wage criteria could be the result of sectoral agreements involving both employers' and employees' representations, which are not rigidly multiplied, be it 0.8 or 1.5 or 2.0. However, it was no longer possible to make such proposals in the draft, as the deadline for the amendments was November 2020. But now on the subject of the President's reproach and our answer to the President. A lot has been said about content, less of it, but well, a good format is designed to throw its own political slogans here, which we have heard quite a lot about. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, as I have already said, I belong to, was actually very aware of the risks that Parliament is taking when it processed this law and between second and third readings in improving, replacing and amending the text. The Commission knew very clearly that there were breaches of our working and Rules of Procedure. It was a conscious choice of the Commission and Parliament, although we knew very well what was going to happen. What was supposed to happen happened. The President sent the law back to the Riigikogu, although he used only one place in the provisions of the amendment concerning family members, relatives and spouses. In fact, I personally have also expressed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I accept that this is an obvious error and could be corrected by technical corrections. However, the second thing that the President is not talking about in his letter, which I think is a very substantive change, is to shift the beginning of the war between second and third readings. This alone is a violation of the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, and there is a threat to this also implied by the President's representative at the committee sitting, it was quoted today that if we adopt this law again, the President will also take all the other arguments, not just the spouses and close relatives. And that's when we can argue about it in court, with the president. It seems that by making informed choices, receiving a letter of return from the President and listening to this procedure here today and listening to the coalition ambassadors, it seems that we, as a Parliament, are simply throwing away the President's reproach. The President's ink has not yet dried up when the Prime Minister has already announced in all media that we will adopt this law unchanged. The letter had not even reached Parliament yet, but the Prime Minister already knew how it would develop. I'll see you tonight. The Social Democratic Party Group cannot make such a precedent or allow such a precedent in our Parliament. The power of state, including legislative power, must act in accordance with the law. This provision of the Constitution has been quoted here several times today. The Riigikogu, on the other hand, is, as it seems, moving in the opposite direction. We may have a very different understanding, ladies and gentlemen of the content of this law, the purpose of the law, we may have very important and also conflicting political views on how we should regulate migration on the labour market and generally on a broader scale, but the procedure, good friends, must be in order. The President of our Republic, our elected President, draws attention to this. That is why the Social Democrats cannot adopt this law unchanged and do not support the proposal of the coalition ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U245	There are no more requests, but a procedural question has arisen. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U246	Thank you, Mr President. We listened to what the previous member of the Riigikogu's board thought of this negotiation process as an expression of opinion. I'd love to hear what you think. Do you interpret in the same way that as a Member of Parliament with different titles, it is possible to get there three or four times in a row like this? What is your interpretation of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U247	Yeah. I understand that, in fact, Mr Pevkur said that this has not happened before and that the Bureau should form a position on this matter. There will be a board meeting tomorrow, where we will certainly begin to think about what this right course of action would have been like. That's what he just did. To me, let's say, shooting off the hip also feels like one person can't wear that many hats at a time. But let's go over the paragraphs. Now it is that there are no more requests for speeches and we are going to the vote. I'm gonna go over this procedure a little bit again. Actually, let's do the call first, then everyone will hear the procedure. Your attention, please. We have a debate again, and this is the case that the law which the President of the Republic did not declare is deemed to have been re-accepted in its unaltered state by the same majority as was required for the first adoption of this law. This means a simple majority of votes in favour. If the Riigikogu fails to adopt the law unchanged, i.e. votes against, simple votes, there are more than votes in favour, the law will be processed in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. There are ten days to table amendments, there will be a second reading and so on. The commission is the same as the draft law before the Riigikogu, i.e. the Constitutional Committee. Therefore, pursuant to § 114 (3) of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, I am voting on the adoption of the Aliens Act sent back from the President of the Republic to the Riigikogu and the Amendment to the International Protection Act to Aliens. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U248	The adoption of the draft as unchanged was supported by 47 delegates, with 33 against. The draft has been adopted unchanged.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U249	We can move on to today's agenda. There is now probably a slightly less time-consuming point: the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Culture, entitled "Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council" 602. The rapporteur is Mr Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. It's a one-reading bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U250	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a draft concerning the appointment of a qualified member of the National Broadcasting Council. This has indeed been a very serious issue, and the Committee on Culture has discussed it in even three sessions, and I hope that this debate will also be at least as thorough as it was in the previous point. The whole issue arose from the termination of the mandate of Rein Veidamann, a recognised expert member of the National Broadcasting Council. The term of office is five years; it was now full, or 6 May, and it was therefore necessary to appoint a new member. If you try to capture the nature of the intrigue or its content, there are many among you on the National Broadcasting Council, in addition to the experts, as you know. I'm not going to read the names, everybody's gonna feel the light. But maybe so. Priit Sibul, Marika Tuus-Laul, Indrek Saar, Valdo Randpere, Anti Half-Amets and experts Peeter Espak, Viktor Trasberg and Priit Hõbemägi are represented here. The Committee on Culture has been asked to take this very serious issue into account the Council's ability to work and the diversity of competences. Well, I'm not going to explain it too long, I've never talked about it here, but as you know, in any council, it would be very good if someone could, for example, read money and have financial problems and so on, and so on, and so on and so forth. What happened now was that we did not have a whole package of experts to complete, but had to replace one person. With humor, some have said that one candidate had greater assumptions than the others. Yes, it was. There were three candidates, all very good specialists in the Commission's view. But as the irony of fate says, the place that got rid of Rein Veidemann, who himself applied, had to be filled. And, you know, in this role, take it in half with humor, he really was the best fit. In the meantime, the political groups also took time to decide and analyse. So these Commission meetings took place on 18 April, 19 April and finally on 22 April. There was another agreement, and it is good old practice that we did not disclose the names of all three very good candidates. This also required an election procedure as follows: First of all, we have identified who will be the candidate for the Commission in the vote. The winner may be named, the others may not be polite. They were dignified by the fact that they didn't turn out to be elected, doesn't show that they're not good candidates, right? And the Commission's final opinion was quite unanimous: with 9 votes: 1 it was decided to enter the name of Rein Veikemann in the Bulletin. This opinion was confirmed by the Commission. And as I have already said, the logic of decision-making was largely due to what was our decision-making space, which specialist was needed. I'm sure if there are any intriguing questions, I'll try to answer them. But ultimately, the Commission was quite unanimous. And we also call on the Riigikogu plenary to vote in favour of the nomination of Rein Veidemann. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U251	One brief question, too. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U252	Yeah. Thank you very much. Did the Commission also have a meeting with Mr Veidemann, and did Mr Veidemann introduce his next five years or what plans he has? After all, he is not just a member of the council, but also its chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U253	I mean, really, we had all the candidates' motivation letters. And I will say this once again that if there had been an empty field and four experts had to be elected, there is a very high probability that all three candidates would have been members of the Council. In the case of the bimbo, we have had national broadcasting issues up all the time, and we have listened to him several times. The Commission's general understanding was that it has done its job well and was rated as the best candidate under these existing conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U254	No further questions. The commission has proposed a final vote of 602 on the draft. And let's do the hall call anyway. It happened that I forgot to open negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? Then I close the negotiations, there was no wish for negotiations. Now we can still go to the vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Culture, entitled "Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council" 602. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U255	There are 65 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no votes against, one abstention. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U256	Today's third item is the presentation by the Minister for Health and Labour of 2022 on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." The rapporteur is Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour. By doing so, we have a presentation for up to 20 minutes, each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask up to two oral questions and then there will be negotiations involving the political group. Please, Tanel!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U257	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to start by wishing you and the whole of Estonia a beautiful and peaceful European day. There is no doubt that health policy and the labour market play an important role here when it comes to what we want to be a European Estonia. In order to move towards achieving the desired change, action is needed now and today, and every day. The road map that Estonia has set is the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035," which sets quite a lot of goals in different areas and also highlights the changes needed to achieve these goals, at least the proposals to make them. Such planning will help to increase and support people's well-being, so that in 20 years' time Estonia will be the best place to live and work and natural to live as healthy as possible. The aim of the state in the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs is definitely a healthier society, a healthier state, a healthier nation and ensuring the highest possible level of employment as well as productivity. To this end, we need to increase health and social integration, including by extending cooperation between different sectors. It is certainly important to have a human-centred view so that people can get the necessary help and services as conveniently as possible, so that they do not have to wonder or waste unnecessary time between fragmented services or service providers. One way forward and one way forward, which has been much talked about, is to design as integrated a set of services as possible for each individual on the basis of their needs, so it is in a human-centred and integrated way, as we have foreseen for the next decade in the population health development plan 2020 to 2030. It is precisely this kind of integration of services, strengthening of the primary level, access to high-quality and safe healthcare, a strong health system, reducing health risks and harms are the key words both for health concerns and for maintaining health as good as possible. We should focus significantly more on the latter in the future. Perhaps both storage and prevention. This is done both by shaping the living environment and by developing health systems and various integrated services. In this area of health, there is, you could say, a consensus that more and more attention needs to be paid to the design of sectors outside health. In all of this, it is essential that we focus and look at matters from a human's point of view. Perhaps, on the one hand, the journey in need of assistance should be smooth between service providers so that, regardless of the sector, cooperation can work even better. However, as I have pointed out, the prevention of health concerns and problems in both the health and labour market areas should be avoided as widely as possible and supported not only by the health sector, but by all sectors, both in the public sector, at national level, in local authorities and, of course, in cooperation with the private sector. Good ambassadors! In recent years, we have lived in many ways in a crisis caused by COVID-19 disease, operating in uncertain, difficult-predicted conditions, having to find quick solutions, in the areas of health, social and labour. This has certainly hindered long-term targets and their focus, as there has been a great deal to deal with the crises and their concerns that have been brought before the country at the moment. Just when it seemed that we were starting to overcome the pandemic and that we could focus on long-term challenges and goals, unfortunately, a new and worse crisis broke out. Russia started a full-scale war against the Ukrainian state and people. There is also much unknown to us in the refugee crisis that will inevitably result from this brutal war, but we must at times be able to react even faster than in a pandemic. Providing all the necessary assistance to war refugees from Ukraine due to Russian military aggression means new challenges for our country, of course also for health, work and social matters. This is indeed, you can say, a long-term battle with the COVID pandemic, but now this new crisis will bring a considerable additional burden and financial needs, which we have also taken into account in the preparation of this year's supplementary budget. When discussing the long-term objectives set out in the "Estonia 2035" development strategy, it should be stressed that successive crises have made it sometimes more difficult to measure progress towards them. If we have also looked at various metrics by the government, in reality these effects of the pandemic in the area of health, but very often also elsewhere, for example, in people's behaviour or in the cultural sector, can bring very drastic lines and slopes up and down in metrics, which I hope will be temporary effects. In fact, we will not be able to evaluate and measure their longevity until years later. In order to smooth out the negative effects of the pandemic, we must work and do so constantly, while at the same time trying to provide comprehensive support to the Ukrainian state and people and to the people who fled from the war to Estonia. It is a very important principle that Ukrainian war refugees must be treated with the same dignity as their own people and that they should be guaranteed health services, benefits and the necessary support on the labour market, just like those of Estonian residents. This is, of course, the principle that we have followed in the Ministry of Social Affairs, both in cooperation with the additional budget request and in accepting the country's budgetary strategy now. Perhaps the aim and logic is that we must not reduce or reduce the goals set today, we can say, the levels achieved in health care, the work sector, the social sphere, or "Estonia 2035" but rather we must be able to guarantee these same services and the same positive shifts, such as the rise of healthy life years, employment, even now that we have a duty to help the people of Ukraine who have fled from this war, in addition to the Estonian people. Of course, this requires additional resources. Honourable ambassadors! One of the main challenges in healthcare, when it comes to resources, is the sustainability of long-term financing. Perhaps when it comes to the questions of "Estonia 2035" and also to the main concerns of the health perspective of the Ministry of Social Affairs next year, it is precisely the financing of health services that needs systemic change. The aim is to improve the availability of services, to improve the health of our people, to improve people's ability to make health-supporting and health-aware choices. Of course, health professionals must also be supported in order to be able to act and think as humanly as possible in their daily work. The financing crisis in the health care system has so far delayed the decisions of the last governments to allocate one-off additional money and also to make lasting changes. For example, during the previous government, the state began to pay health insurance tax on non-working pensioners. The previous government allocated EUR 540 million in operating grants to the Health Insurance Fund for the period 2021 to 2024. This has actually helped keep the Health Insurance Fund budget in their balance, so on the plus side. Similarly, both the previous and the current governments have based themselves on the clear principle that, for the COVID-19 pandemic, whether testing, hospital care, purchase or vaccination, these exceptional costs will be allocated separate funds, i.e. financial resources, and they will not come from other health budget lines. However, in the longer term, a lasting solution must be found in the form of additional money, whether it is reviewing the tax base or channelling resources from the state budget, because it is clear that the volume of health care services or the wages of health workers must not and cannot be reduced. These two are not conceivable options for organising the health sector. The financing of health care from the social tax for people mainly working is increasingly questionable at all. We know that different flexible forms of work are increasingly being used. We know that Estonia's population is an ageing population. This means that the current financing system based solely on social tax is no longer sustainable. At the same time, people's expectations of health care increase, but the proportion of people contributing to health insurance decreases. As the current situation continues, people will have to pay an increasing proportion of their own pockets, their own budget, which is why healthcare financing needs a systemic change. At least from my perspective, it is not conceivable that our people's own participation should be increased even further in a situation where it is already significantly above the European average. Estonia has an effective health care system, as many people like to say. It's true. Good outcomes are achieved at low cost, but everything, every optimization has its limit. Not only has the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health and Labour drew attention to the concerns about financing the Estonian health care system, but also the Department of Thought in Praxis, Development Monitoring Centre, as well as local and international health organisations. We clearly need to invest more in the health care system. All of this was quite acutely and clearly demonstrated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Perhaps additional money is needed by patients, healthcare professionals, medical devices, medicines, health infrastructure, innovation and IT solutions. The health system, which has already been optimised across this border, to the last border and I believe that, in the event of unexpected crises, does not allow all those in need to provide the necessary healthcare. This was very evidently demonstrated by the restrictions on scheduled treatment during the pandemic period, which were often due not to the shortage of hospital facilities but to the shortage of health workers, to the lack of health resources. Often, in fact, one must honestly face the truth, in many disciplines the financing of healthcare before the pandemic, even before the last crises, did not allow the needs of the entire population to be met. Too long waiting lists and the shortage of health professionals, especially in smaller rural areas, have been a concern and a topic in this Parliamentary House for decades. One major problem is that nearly 100,000 people in Estonia are not covered by health insurance or are not covered permanently by their health insurance, which is about 5 to 6% of the population. Estonia also has a high participation burden in paying for health services, estimated at 24% of the total cost of health care. At the same time, international organisations, such as the World Health Organisation, say that about 15% of health expenditure is the optimal limit for assessing whether this high level of ownership does not lead to poverty or is not limited to receiving the help needed. As I have pointed out, Estonia is not 15% but 24%. Looking to the future, I think it is clear that, together with the reform of the financing of health care, we actually need to look at the extension of health insurance, i.e. to universal health insurance, as is the case with the vast majority of Europe. Only in this way will we ensure that people receive health services that are actually needed regardless of their income. When I talk about health, of course, I mean not only physical health but also mental health. And I am pleased that, in recent years, a comprehensive understanding of human health has become increasingly clear. To further address mental health concerns, we have also set up a Department of Mental Health in cooperation with Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo. The mental health sector has received additional funding for the preparation of the latest national budgets as well as additional budgets during the crisis. I also hope that during this parliamentary term we will be able to make the necessary legislative changes to make mental health services more accessible. I will also, for example, be before you this same Wednesday with concrete proposals when the first reading comes to the law amending the Law on Mental Assistance and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, which we want to improve the availability of mental health professionals and services for people. However, both the need for additional money to carry out services and investments and long waiting lists in the field of mental health have often been an even more acute problem than in the area of health care as a whole. Of course, we also need sufficiently qualified health and social workers who have acquired the relevant skills and who are committed to enjoying this human-centred and grateful work. We have taken a number of necessary steps to ensure the follow-up of health professionals and other professionals, such as the consensus agreement of fresh nurses, funding for the professional year of psychologists, for which additional funding was found both by the previous and the current government, as well as increasing the number of admissions to the residency. But, of course, achieving the desired results requires consistent work. Training and increasing growth of health experts cannot be achieved in one or two years, but requires decades of commitment. We must also bear in mind that they must be guaranteed decent pay, because we are competing not only within the country, but also internationally. Without wanting to repeat itself, [I say, however, that] it also clearly needs extra money. Honourable ambassadors! Against the background of crises, we have carried out a number of other activities in both health and work areas. For example, early reimbursement of sick days, raising unemployment benefits and benefits during the crisis were important aid measures, which, you can say, are currently permanently legalised to increase unemployment benefit and unemployment insurance benefits, but in fact there is also a need to find an agreement on long-term reimbursement of sick leave. At the Ministry of Social Affairs, we are applying for additional money in the country's budget strategy, so that the reimbursement of sick leave will continue to be more favourable for people in the future, starting from the second day of sickness, not from the fourth, as it was before the war. The Green Paper on Mental Health, the National Action Plan on Cancer Control 2021-2030 and the Population Health Development Plan 2020-2030, which was drawn up in broad cooperation, must now actually be implemented under the leadership of the government, Parliament and the health sector. I would like to thank the Riigikogu for having recently approved the draft patient insurance for years, which will make Estonia's health care system significantly more modern and patient-friendly and will bring it into a new era where people's interests will be better protected and the system will support safer and better quality care. Medical care is high in Estonia, but unfortunately we also face situations where not everything goes as planned. In these circumstances, health professionals need to be confident that they are not wrongly convicted of errors, and that health care institutions and health professionals can learn more boldly and openly from mistakes and improve the area. The aim of creating a new system of patient safety and insurance is to make compensation as convenient and simple as possible in a person's view, so that there is no need to go to court or have long disputes with a health care institution. Together with the Patient Insurance Bill, we have also, as we know, created a system of compensation for vaccine damage, i.e. vaccine insurance, which was launched earlier, starting on 1 May. The quality and safety of medicines used in Estonia are very high. Health damage following vaccination is very rare. However, we want to give confidence to the people who make the vaccination decision to support people if it really happens that the vaccination will result in more serious health damage. I would also like to encourage people to opt for vaccination and to protect themselves and others in the midst of a pandemic from serious illness. This year it is also planned to develop a long-term programme of personal medicine and capacity to provide personalised healthcare to people using digitised genetic data. Estonia has important prerequisites for developing personal medicine. We have the necessary specialists, the first clinical flagship projects for the deployment of personal medical services have been carried out, we have started basic training in medical genomics and personal medicine for health professionals, and there is also the IT infrastructure for personal medicine. The "Estonia 2035" report contains many other topics that can be pointed out: the concept of exercise, the cross-sectoral prevention agreement, the development plan for well-being 2023 to 2030, the disability prevention project, the analysis of the organisation of the Estonian medical care and hospital network, preparation for future work, as well as preparation for the creation of a new generation of health information system. It is also important to develop secure digital solutions that support human health, such as digital registration, e-consultation services, patient portal development, cross-border digital prescription exchange, decision-making support to identify drug interactions and much more. As indicated, the challenge is, above all, to ensure adequate funding for the sector, to ensure the follow-up of health professionals and other professionals, to reduce inequalities in health care, to continue the necessary investment in health infrastructure and, together, to increase the number of people's healthy life years. We all know that we have little joy in hearing the news and seeing people's life expectancy rise, it is higher than ever before, but at the same time we know that healthy years have not grown at the same rate. Here too, inequalities in health indicators are a sharp problem. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A separate project I would like to talk about is also the establishment of the Tallinn Hospital. This is one step that has been discussed for decades. This is an investment that should actually have been made years ago. The development plan for the hospital network already completed in 2000 drew attention to the need to restructure the Tallinn health network. The last crises, both the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russian war in Ukraine, show even more clearly the need for a new hospital. This should take full account of the needs of modern infection control, brings extra hospital beds, makes it possible to make better use of our limited medical staff and thus brings significant progress to the health care system in Estonia as a whole. The cost of Tallinn Hospital on the basis of current prices is estimated at EUR 585 million; we do not really know the final price. The European Union's recovery and resilience plan is planned to cover EUR 280 million. I think it is right that the rest of it is actually covered on equal terms by the city and state of Tallinn. In the event of price increases, both parties should actually contribute more. These negotiations are certainly still ahead of us in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. The decisions of both the current government and the next government are remarkably important and weighty here. If we do not take advantage of the opportunity to make a large investment on this scale, then for the second time such an opportunity from European Union funds may not come to a major project in the future. Honourable Riigikogu! In cooperation with the public sector and the private sector, we must not only contribute to the health sector, but also to people's livelihoods, we must ensure the highest possible level of employment for people during the crisis, and we must have access to the necessary labour market services and benefits. It is important to keep in mind changes in society and developments in labour market policies and to invest in future skills such as digital transformation and lifelong learning. At the same time, however, we must stand up for social justice so that no one is left behind. Therefore, in order to strengthen people's sense of security in the government, we have initiated, rather, a draft of unemployment insurance benefits which are almost dependent on the economic cycle, making the duration of the benefits dependent on the situation on the labour market. Put simply, this means that if there are better times on the labour market, it will be possible to receive shorter compensation, and if there are more difficult times, finding a job, we will pay people compensation longer to support their livelihood. In total, there are still a great many challenges in the health, work and social sectors, both from the "Estonia 2035" perspective and from the crises that have arisen in the coming years. I'd be happy to answer your questions, where I'm sure you'll bring them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U258	Thank you. Jack White has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have two related questions. As we know, the current minimum wage in Estonia is 654 euros per month, from which a person receives 605 euros. In Estonia, the banks do not grant housing loans to recipients of such a minimum wage; in fact, it will take the opportunity to own its home in the future and it will not be possible to reduce expenditure in the future. And the ratio of the minimum wage to the median wage, i.e. the Kaitz index, is one of the lowest in Europe, even lower in Spain and the Czech Republic. And I ask you, do you know how many days the job of the minimum wage recipient should be puffed up in order to earn as much as the head of the Transport Board, who receives a salary from the Estonian state, earns in one day. And the second question: how do you think the import of cheap labour, which the government wants to expand further, has affected our economic renewal and the related wage growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U260	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. There is certainly a need to move forward with the increase in the minimum wage, which I very much agree with. In recent years, the social partners have actually made these proposals, and also EUR 654 was in fact a significant increase compared to the wage levels that were still in place in the meantime, which, in the context of the pandemic at the time, were not initially braved to be raised. The aim has been for him to be 40% of the average salary, it has been the mathematics that employers and trade unions have followed. Personally, I think it's a little low, maybe this level should be higher. There is a possibility of really linking it to the median wage, but it is a practice in Estonia that the social partners agree. It was fresh today that I, as well as the Confederation of Employers, actually received a proposal from the trade unions that, from 1 July onwards, the minimum wage would be exceptionally EUR 700. In Estonia, the minimum wage has never been raised in the middle of the year, but at the moment I think that the circumstances are also exceptional, so the Confederation of Employers will certainly consider it seriously and very many employers will hopefully find ways to raise wage levels. Fortunately, there are no significant number of recipients of the minimum wage in Estonia; rather, it is more common than that. And, of course, raising the minimum wage will help move the lower wages up the decile. So in that sense, we have the same goal, I think, with you here. The fact that we are talking about the introduction of labour coming from abroad, we are talking about the labour force of the higher-paid people, at least Estonia's medium-paid workforce. On a much smaller scale, we are talking about other work, even seasonal work or other forms of work. They do not actually lead to lower Estonian wage levels based on studies. But what would really happen if we did what you described would be an uncontrolled mass migration. This, however, has not been cultivated by any government in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U261	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that modern medicine is very capable and that it is possible to cure diseases better than ever before, but it is expensive. At the same time, health promotion and disease prevention are considered to be much cheaper. As an experienced minister, how do you appreciate our practical action in this area, that we young people and parents really keep ourselves healthy and understand that it is easier to take care of health and prevent illness?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U263	Thank you. I very much agree with that. Different studies show different numbers, but the order of magnitude is two thirds. Three quarters of human health actually depends on factors outside the medical system. So what the medical system is doing is always going to be less than a quarter or a third of it, you can study it in different studies, you can get a different number. But everyone agrees that the vast majority, or most, really depend on a person's environment, depends on genes, depends on life habits, working environments, and other such factors. In Estonia, I think, a lot of work has been done when we talk about, for example, the program of the Invitation School and such perceptions that both movement and healthy eating must be taught from the ground. But many concerns have perhaps come in some ways as a reaction to the negative changes that have already taken place. Perhaps it has been shown that the movement of young people is not enough or that there are problems with obesity, and then solutions are considered. But it actually means that you have to start acting a little bit after the events. The same is true when we talk about the working environment and safety at work. We have a lot of accidents at work. We also have a lot of suicidal behaviour, for example, in traffic, when we talk about driving drunk or accidents, drowning deaths. Perhaps there are places where the numbers get better, the number of road deaths is decreasing. The understanding that safety belts must be fastened has grown, the understanding of the importance of compliance with safety requirements has grown. But here too, in fact, very many years of life have been lost, which means tragedy for people and additional costs for the state, from the health, social and labour perspective, in order to maximise support for people's lives. So there is a lot of work to be done here, and I agree that this is where the focus and the emphasis must be placed. I see most of the benefits undoubtedly in activities aimed at young people, from the ground to low students, to grandchildren in teaching healthy lifestyles, nutrition and movement. But, of course, all the target groups must be dealt with. Each of us can give quite a lot to stay healthier, work longer and thus enjoy life and contribute to the development of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U264	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U265	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your introductory speech, which had a large number of different problems that you described, which we are mostly aware of. And one important problem I think has been discussed in recent years, concerning the missing sisters, carers and their salaries, I do not remember whether and how you marked it, but even more importantly, I do not remember that you have offered any solution to it. Just like the constant talk you gave us about the lack of healthcare funding that we all know, but again I didn't hear any ideas that maybe you could publish. I am not saying that you as a minister have to do this, but maybe you in a party or somewhere have discussed what these solutions could be for these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U266	Yeah, I'd love to. I guess I brought out a few things. We have actually signed a consensus agreement with the health and education actors, which will significantly increase nurses' admission to health education institutions, including providing them with opportunities for traineeships. Perhaps the goal is to reach the desired number of nurses per capita at WHO level by 2030, which requires that we continue to train 700 nurses each year instead of 500-600 earlier, and other health professionals have also been agreed with higher education institutions in health care. In the perspective of funding, as I referred to, we really do not have the point of training specialists if we are not able to recruit them afterwards. Perhaps it is a health sector in national terms, it is a private sector, it is a social sector or it is also an educational area where nurses can work in all of them, it is important to actually ensure an adequate level of pay to compete with our good northern neighbour. Health funding has provided one-off solutions, as well as more permanent solutions, as I indicated, such as the payment of health insurance for older people. One concrete proposal that has come out of our analysis is to pay a health insurance fee for minors, just like the elderly. This means that the state will put 13% of its pension level for every currently inactive old-age pension business, and the state could, for example, charge a minimum wage for each child to the health insurance fund's budget. One option. The second option, which I have also spoken about publicly, is the expansion of the revenue base in the view that we are currently taxing work under a contract of employment, in particular, with health insurance, but there are very many other ways of generating income. As I pointed out, there are temporary forms of work, platform work and many other places where people work and operate. For these, too, it would be important to contribute to the health budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Perhaps this does not necessarily require an increase in tax rates, but it could also be an extension of the tax base, i.e. an extension of the taxpayers' circle in order to get more sums together. Or raising money within the state budget is one way, as I described it, you can pay a health insurance fee for minors. I guess there's more to it than that. I certainly hope that our party, the Centre Party, as well as other parliamentary parties, as well as non-parliamentary parties will certainly propose solutions in the coming months and in the debate in the Riigikogu elections, because the disadvantages of the Health Insurance Fund have been written in black and white in the scenarios of the Centre for Development, in the Praxis scenarios and in the additional budget for 2022, which will show that already in the coming years, if this agreed operating support from the previous government disappears from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Insurance Fund will have a negative impact on the current wage levels and prices, not to mention if we would like to make a considerable wage increase or increase in the availability of health services compared to the current one.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U267	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One of the main features of your report is the creation of a system of compensation for vaccine damage, i.e. vaccine insurance. Six months ago, you patronized that if anyone had a problem with vaccine damage, you basically have to sue Pfizer. Today you have improved this situation, but it is not because of your concern for people, but because this problem has grown over your head, both in terms of death and permanently damaged health. I just get the mop red because now the Estonian taxpayer has to pay for the vaccine damage that has been caused to people. Why do you not address the European Commission, which has signed this agreement, or then directly to Pfizer, in order to claim compensation for these damages, so that the Estonian state does not have to pay for this screw-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U269	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, compensation for vaccine damage was earlier and is still possible for most medicines when a person comes directly to the manufacturer. The fact that we created a separate vaccine insurance system, I think, is good. I also congratulate Parliament on its support. This will make it easier for people to receive compensation if they need to, if they really do have health damage after vaccination. It extends not only to COVID-19 vaccines, but also to other vaccines, more generally. The fact that, in the case of vaccines currently developed in the middle of a pandemic, the agreements were really one where countries made a greater commitment in the framework of the agreement concluded by the European Union to certain consultations, to the payment of compensation, was at the time, can be said to be the only viable solution so that these vaccines could actually be used so quickly and save lives. We know that among the higher-than-vaccinating countries, the mortality rate of the population is significantly lower than in other countries. This is not changed by anyone's personal attitude towards vaccination, it's just numbers and facts that speak for themselves. So thanks to the fact that the contracts were signed, including our previous government, which also belonged to your respected party, these contracts were approved at government level, the orders were made, in fact, very many lives were saved both in Estonia and in Europe and in the wider world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U270	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U271	Good manager! Dear Minister of Health, Konstantin Päts said in 1934 that the people were sick and that we had to show its symptoms so that it could be cured. I will now ask you, as Minister of Health, what the most important symptoms you would bring out, what should be treated, what is the most problematic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U272	Thank you. That's a good question. The biggest cause of death in Estonia is vascular disease, cardiovascular disease. They are due to overweight, lack of exercise, unhealthy diet, and in certain cases, too, for example, alcohol, not only excessive but may be said to be abuse. I'm sure these are the places. Another cause of mortality is cancer, various strains of cancer. In these two cases, the question of the living environment, the question of healthy lifestyles, is very much about whether to prevent or at least delay the health problems that have already been caused and to alleviate them. Certainly movement, a healthy diet, can also be said to be sufficient rest, in fact, is the three simplest things that anyone can do and, in order to maintain their mental health, undoubtedly also supporting one another, talking about their worries, listening and being supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U273	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U274	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister. The development strategy "Estonia 2035" also contains such a reference in the field of health (citizenship): "The world is experiencing an increase in extreme weather events and crises caused by them, so it is necessary to increase the readiness to cope with the effects of climate change on human health [... "You weren't very committed to it, but I think it would certainly be the job of the Minister of Health to focus on it too. Now, why don't you give us an overview of how we've been doing and where we're supposed to be by 2035?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U275	Thank you. In fact, when we talk about the need to focus on maintaining health, precisely on sectors outside health, this is also one of these examples. Perhaps the health issue is not just that I go to the doctor and monitor my health, but that I have a job that is healthy, a living space and an urban space that supports it, and, of course, the environment keeps it, that it is a clean atmosphere, that it is a reduction in noise pollution, or that it is also a traditional tolerated temperature for our people, as much as it is possible for us and Europe to influence it, knowing that the largest polluters are major powers outside the European Union. For example, the recent summer heat wave very clearly led to too much mortality in Estonia because the people of Estonia are often not used to weathering so hot. For this reason, it is also important, for example, for planning houses and planning residential areas to take account of climate settings, also taking into account people's mobility paths, so that they are affordable for both younger and older people. These are the places where it is actually very important, as I have just described, not tired of repeating, of contributing sectors outside the health sector, of being a local authority, of being an economic sector, of being an environmental sector, actually up to agriculture. Human health cannot only be promoted by making an effort in the area of health, and it requires the contribution of everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U276	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Already when this document arrived at the committee and its written version, which looked like a "rabbit pulled out of the hat," Tallinn Hospital could be seen there. I don't quite know what it was based on. You indicated in your report that it had been planned a long time ago, but yet, although it has been planned so long ago, it has not been possible to do so, even if there is European money. Just looking at the current situation, there was a reference, like in COVID's situation, given the extra beds and so on. In fact, these are completely absurd reasons for which this Tallinn Hospital is seen. I have a question. How do you see, especially if there should be a situation that somebody hopes will not happen, a state of war, in which way in Estonia we should see and maintain the hospital network in the future? What's your understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U278	Thank you. No Tallinn Hospital's need is definitely not enchanted out of a hat. It comes from life itself, from the locations of health institutions located in Tallinn as well as from the degree of depreciation compared to the real location of the population. The project of Tallinn Hospital has so far been unimplemented mainly due to lack of money. This really is a huge investment. And now that the European Union's recovery and resilience facility is an opportunity to get money, we confirmed it in the previous government, we supported the next one, or now. I hope that we will put this into practice in the next few governments. Perhaps Tallinn Hospital will actually be born in cooperation with the European Union, the state and the city. In fact, when we are talking about ensuring infection safety, modern ones, with both adequate ventilation, adequate locks, adequate isolation rooms, and adequate other options for infection control, including adequate dispersal of spaces, are also very clearly helping the country to cope better during the pandemic. At the moment, we were in a situation where we literally had to hospitalise people in rooms that were never meant to treat infected patients, which is why in a very large number of hospitals, we can say that almost everywhere there were internal lesions, which in fact meant the infection of personnel, the infection of other patients and, to sum up, the increase in the crisis. Perhaps modern beds and hospital units meeting the requirements of infection control would certainly help to reduce these problems, as well as to make better use of limited medical staff, such as reducing repetitions of surveillance circles and such. Speaking of Russia's military activities in Ukraine, both the mayor of Tallinn and the person carrying the project by the city have said that one option is the creation of a second floor precisely so that the capacity of the emergency hospital, whether due to war, some terrorist event or other disaster, would be able to provide hospital care. There must have been an estimated 500 beds. It can also be said that the original Tallinn Hospital project actually had two minus floors, the first and the second, but it was cut back then with money needed, for cost savings. The seventh floor was also cut off. The difference with the seventh floor is that the seventh floor can be built later when the six-storey hospital is completed, but two minus floors can't be done later. So this decision has to be made now, whether, for example, as a lesson in the same crisis, it would be reasonable to allocate an extra EUR 50 million to this size and whether the capacity of a two-storey crisis hospital to create it. This is not the case in Estonia at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U279	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Here is the analysis of Estonian medical care, specialised medical care and the organisation of the hospital network. I would now like to know whether this analysis has already started and how far this analysis is going. And if there hasn't been a start, when is it going to start with what year, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U281	Thank you. Yes, this analysis is currently ongoing in terms of both the service volumes of medical care and the organisation of the hospital network and the future plan. Perhaps the development plan for the hospital network in 2040, this document will be completed during this year, will be made public in the main, there will be annexes and other documents, such as interviews and such. However, the key issue for this hospital network is how to ensure access to health care workers in smaller hospitals and the availability of the necessary services in a situation where the population may often decline in some areas, for example, but the number of patients may not do so, as even fewer people in an ageing population may actually mean more patients. Perhaps this is one of the most serious concerns when we are talking about one of Estonia's major cities, Narva and very many rural areas, for example. So I certainly support the maintenance of the broadest possible hospital network, the provision of the necessary services in all counties, but this requires additional money and also requires a debate on whether, for example, regional differences in the financing of health care, as is currently the case at the primary level, the example of Ida-Virumaa in the area of internal security, should also be introduced more broadly in the financing of hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U282	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U283	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation. I have a question about that. I very much agree that the challenges facing the health care system are extremely substantial and extensive, and maybe it was less than the three I heard: relative ageing of the population, the continuing concentration of the population in Tallinn and the growing number of people in need of long-term care and care. In order to address these challenges, Jaanus Pikkini has been led by the European Commission's structural reform instruments, where, to my knowledge, things such as greater integration of health and social services, a novel concept of hospital, such as community hospital, and a marked development of the capacity of the family medical system have been proposed. You spoke about the fact that the Ministry is still preparing an analysis of the hospital network, but I ask whether it will take this analysis from the European Commission into account, because they, as far as I know, have not received a reply from you, which their analysis has proposed for solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U284	Yeah, thanks! Actually, we're talking about the same analysis. Perhaps indeed, in the main, it is ready, and now there is a debate on which scenarios to present the operational programme. In this sense, this final document has not yet been completed, there are different scenarios described. One is indeed this model of community hospitals. The second is broadly improving and optimising the current health system, the health network. The third is that you don't do anything. Well, it's always the easiest solution, but as a rule, it's not the best solution. We are actually planning to re-convene this same hospital network development plan steering group in order to agree on a way forward. As I have described, my own allowance, and also in the area of health, we have talked about this, is that every county must maintain a functioning hospital. Of course, cooperation with the first level must be stepped up; this has also been done gradually; health centres have often emerged alongside hospitals, sometimes with the support of co-financing from these hospitals. I actually spoke about social and health integration in my speech. This is a place where there is a great deal of opportunity to reduce duplication in a person's view of making the journey more convenient. So surely when we talk about the hospital network, it doesn't mean that we're talking about the first level somehow, like at another meeting. These are things that need to be looked at together and as coherently as possible, so that both services are available to the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U285	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tanel! When I asked you about vaccine damage, about people who have died, who have lost their health, you said that the vaccines have saved many lives. But I'd like to know what kind of person you really are. How do you feel when you have seen and heard that people have died and some people have lost their health? Nobody who's ever been a sportsman can do anything anymore. A person who's lost sight of one eye. A person who's in pain can't feel... There's a lot of these cases. Please tell me how you feel when you're human. Are you sleeping well? Do you ever have a soul in you move on to what's happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U287	Thank you, good questioner! The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in more than 2500 deaths in the Republic of Estonia. These are people with purely COVID diagnosis, over 2,500 people. In addition, this pandemic and its associated restrictions on scheduled treatment, as well as perhaps general health anxiety, sometimes not addressing the doctor on time, have resulted in even more mortality. Perhaps we can see that, according to the excess mortality rate, in reality there have been many victims of this pandemic, in addition to these 2,500. Of course, vaccination has also resulted in serious health damage, deaths have occurred, as you describe, where, if they are related to vaccination, people should be given fair compensation. But as Minister for Health, I will, in any case, stick to the view that vaccination has helped to save considerably more lives than those that have left us because of these side effects. And these are just facts and numbers. Of course, having full sympathy for all those who have suffered health damage since vaccination, there is no way to overlook the much larger number of people who have left us precisely because of the COVID-19 disease whose life could have been saved by timely vaccination or at least to alleviate complaints. More than 16,000 people who have needed hospital care are added to these 2,500 deaths. So in reality, you have to look at the picture of health damage as a whole, not focus on the smaller part and ignore the iceberg next door.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U288	Procedural, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U289	Thank you, Mr President. This mantra, which the current esteemed Tanel Kiik here was talking about, was not my question. I asked him how he was feeling. Does he also have any pain because these people have left or are left with permanent damage to his health? I wanted to know. Can you... Let us say, since my question did not find an answer, the President of the sitting is actually entitled to draw the attention of the rapporteur to answer my question. I want to know what his personal opinion is as a person. Does he have any conscience pains or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U290	I got it, Kalle, I got it. But you know, you can ask anything you want, and the answer is what they want to answer. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I, too, asked about climate change last time, and you answered for a long time, but you didn't answer what I asked for. So I'm gonna do another experiment. How has it been in your area to increase the readiness to cope with the effects of climate change on human health? But since I want to ask another question, I will continue. We do not have too many metrics that affect your field, there are three: the proportion of overweighted people, the perceived risk of becoming ill and the years of healthy life. Where have we come from with these three gauges? And what are our progress compared to the targets?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U292	Thank you. I'll pick up where I answered you. In the area of health, perhaps when we talk about these same challenges, they are not manageable within the area of health. Perhaps we cannot assume that Estonian doctors, hospitals and health care professionals will, for example, provide people in their homes with a suitable room temperature or safe and safe journey from their home to the nearest store or nearest pharmacy in the midst of a hot pandemic. Perhaps this is where the contribution of the local government is important, where the contribution of the economic sector, the contribution of the environmental sector and the work of other sectors, precisely so that we have as many energy-saving buildings as possible in Estonia to ensure adequate integration opportunities, air quality, etc. Of course, this is where we have a great deal of work, as demonstrated by the last pandemic. In reality, these figures and the opportunities for people to cope in rural areas, for example in hot times, are often not very good. But with these hot summers, we need to get used to it more and more. The other side, you asked about the gauges. These meters are, of course, more than we are looking at, for example, the life expectancy of the Estonian people. If we look at the lives of a purely healthy life, we can see that they are, unfortunately, relatively low at the moment. Maybe men live healthy for 55.5 years and women for 59.5 years. These figures have improved somewhat compared to the 2019 measure when they were 54.1 and 57.6. But one very badge that I've often brought is that they're both lower than the average retirement age. Perhaps both men and women actually live in health for less than the retirement age prescribed. And there is actually a very large regional inequality here, which I mentioned earlier. The objective is also to monitor employment participation rates, currently falling from 71.60 to 71.1 but the target is above 72% by 2030. Here, surely, its contribution to helping the war refugees to work as much as possible has been made so that their employment is as high as possible, both their employment figures and the employment figures of the rest of Estonia. When we talk about the proportion of people with excessive weight, the level in 2018 was 50.7% and it has risen to 52% in 2020. Well, here's the goal of being less than 50%, but here too, in fact, this proportion is still remarkably high. I stress that we are talking about half of the Estonian population, whom we see with excessive weight. Unfortunately, these numbers are considerably higher among young people and children. As I pointed out earlier, this is a place where special attention must certainly be focused, because the habits, behaviors, diets that we have developed as children, unfortunately, are sending us all our lives. If they're successful and well established, we're lucky to be alive. But if it is the opposite, we may have tended to have a lot of health concerns, the same ones that my colleague Mr Ernits asked me to refer to, for example, cardiovascular diseases and such.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U293	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U294	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Speaking of a long-term development strategy, in the case of Estonian people, we have been producing statistics on common diseases for years, we have dealt with prevention and screening, so we have been able to predict and plan the health care costs of Estonian people more or less as necessary. However, there is no statistics, prevention and screening on their epidemiological and health status for war refugees, which is completely lacking. How do you intend to plan and manage these healthcare costs in the future? And where does that money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U295	Thank you very much. Indeed, we can say that this information or knowledge about the Estonian population in the field of health is, of course, greater. We also have better established structures than we do for war refugees. This is where we have to work together with the primary level and hospitals. We offer both initial health surveillance options, such as for detecting faster traumas, and a second health check, as well as testing and vaccination, precisely in order to preserve the health of these people. Those people who wish to stay longer in Estonia should, of course, also commit themselves to the primary system. They have access to health care, a list of emergency centres and, more generally, other primary centres. Regardless of whether the patient is specifically on the family doctor's list or has just given notice, he or she is able to get help. In the money view, of course, that means extra costs, at least for the time being. We have also taken this into account in the process of an additional budget in 2022, so that it does not come at the expense of reducing other services, but it also means an increase in expenditure on the health insurance fund this year. In the longer term, we can see from the forecasts that this expenditure will gradually decrease. Firstly, because the number of war refugees is likely to fall in Estonian society, secondly because the people who remain here are increasingly finding employment and are also starting to contribute to the tax system, as well as to health insurance, and thus to earn back, so the money that may go to keep them healthy will not be spent. Understandably, when we talk about underage children, we are not talking about making a profit for a while. But if they commit themselves to Estonian society, learn the Estonian language, acquire qualifications, they will certainly become good taxpayers in the future, who will contribute to sustainability in terms of health funding. But this is a place that we have really taken into account in both the requests for additional budgets and the additional requests for national budgetary strategies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U296	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is a cross-cutting issue that there is always a question of funding and a problem of money. We have now recently received an additional budget in the Riigikogu, which is over 800 million. How much is allocated or accounted for in this supplementary budget for health care? This extra budget is called the war budget, but if you look into the budget, you can see that there really is some under 2% of the defensive capacity. How much was your health directed? Let's leave out the subsidies related to the Ukrainians and the COVID. How much money is there to improve the health care of our own people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U298	Thank you. As you rightly described, with an additional budget, we will, above all, address the extraordinary costs that have been incurred, including the services related to support for the health of Ukrainian refugees. Their size is estimated at up to €50 million. In reality, it depends on whether we will have an increase in the number of war refugees to 50000, as we have calculated and based on forecasts, or whether it will be somewhat smaller. At least for now, it seems to be getting smaller. In fact, real life is still becoming clear, these figures will be ex-post, but we all hope that military action will end as soon as possible, that the national and territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine will be protected and that people will be able to return to their homeland as much as possible. The current budget does not specifically address other additional needs in the health field, but we are already bringing them into the country's budget strategy applications for 2023 and beyond, as in the normal process of planning the health sector and the state budget at all. But the fact that we have provided separate money for the costs of war refugees also means that we do not have to use the budget lines taken into account for the treatment of Estonian people, the budget costs at the health insurance fund there, but that they can now be directed towards the health care of Estonian residents, health care services, and we consider that the costs are therefore somewhat higher this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U299	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U300	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Health and Labour! Thank you for the overview, which was true, presented in a relatively positive key and less in the view of offering solutions to problems. Bring out the need to build a new Tallinn Hospital. But Tallinn is not all of Estonia and Estonia is not only Tallinn. My question concerns the construction of the Viljandi hospital and the need for additional funding, because no one is aware of the price rally of construction materials, which does not show signs of shrinking. And the question is, what is the prognosis and hope that Viljandi Hospital will be ready and offering, as the name Tervikum says, more services than just general hospital services, i.e. family doctor, health centre, social work and integrated health care services?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U301	Thank you very much. In fact, I have also pointed out precisely this necessary investment in health infrastructure at large. Really, I didn't bring out different hospitals, we have a dozen of them, which we currently have in the process of minor or major changes, in the process of renovating the emergency department, with certain housing upgrades, with new constructions or floor renovations. Surely the Viljandi hospital must be prepared with the support of the country, the European Union. We have repeatedly allocated extra money to this project because it has become more expensive. But at the moment, this is really, I think, a situation that is independent of the customer and also of the builder, where the appreciation is due to the international situation. And here we are submitting our additional requests to the country's budgetary strategy process. August-September is the time when these negotiations are being held at government level. I certainly believe that the existing construction must be completed. I would also like to meet with the management of Viljandi Hospital and the hospital board separately on these issues to discuss the possibilities and current state of play, i.e. the state of negotiations with the construction partner. We even had an appointment at the time, but we missed out on family reasons because of sending a loved one away, but we'll find a new time to meet them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U302	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U303	Good manager! Good Minister of Labour! That people are sick, that's what we talked about, but we're talking about work. In Finland it is cheaper than here in Tallinn for eggs, butter, flour and cheese. But the janitor or the bus driver is paid a couple or three times as much there for some reason. At all, the productivity of each move, I think, just as much. There is no lazy one. But why, in a situation where the egg is cheaper in Finland, does the janitor and the bus driver get a couple or three times as much pay as we do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U304	Thank you. Well, now we have to go back to history. The Finnish state has been able to build its independence, its economy, its society considerably longer than we have, since the Tsar State and independence for over a hundred years. Unfortunately, in Estonia, this independence has been interrupted or, in fact, violently interrupted. During the Soviet occupation, these differences in the standards of living, the economy and wages of the two countries grew very clearly to our detriment. Well, now we're gonna have to do our best to catch up. We have actually approached the European Union's average significantly, but there is still a way to go to Nordic level. So the negotiations on the minimum wage that have been referred to here today, the active role of trade unions, in fact tax policy, are also those that must support people in the fact that, even with low wages, rather than lower wages, it is possible, let us say, to cope decently in Estonia, to feed and manage our family successfully. So this objective must, I think, be kept in constant sight for the next five, ten and twenty years so that every person with a salary can cope with himself, so that there is no so-called underemployment, and that the gap with both Finland and the other Nordic countries is reduced every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U305	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U306	Thank you. Good minister! You here before you answered me, you talked for a long time about how war refugees go to work and their social contributions cover their health care costs. But quite a lot has come and come more people of retirement age, including family members, who do not go to work, but who have health care provided. But old people, as we know, have a lot to do with the doctor. What about covering these costs in the future? After all, these people have not contributed to our economy in the past, just as our own pensioners have. The treatment queues are already very long. How do you anticipate an increase in these services in the future, a financial cover for them, if we are talking not only about medical services but also about nursing homes, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U307	Thank you. Well, today we can really say that the majority of people who have reached Estonia have been more working-age people, the proportion of underage people and older people has been significantly lower. True, there are also, and this amount may grow in the future; it is difficult to predict precisely. In Estonia, we have based ourselves on logic and the principle that we provide services equivalent to those of the people of Estonia when receiving temporary protection for refugees, whether for example a minimum level of national pension or minimum level of social assistance. Undoubtedly in the social field view, in the health field view, this could mean an additional burden depending on the number of Ukrainian war refugees remaining in Estonia on the one hand, but on the other, what their demographic structure is. Maybe if more people of working age are left here, they can actually generate more income in the country, in the perspective of entrepreneurship. On the other hand, when we talk more about older people, there is no doubt that the additional costs are higher than the potential wage income or tax revenue they could pay to the state. In the case of minors, as I have pointed out, everything really depends on whether they will live here, even though in this case they will have to invest in children, as we all know, but children are very good and, later on, they will return this investment from a financial perspective, not to mention an emotional perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U308	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U309	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Thank you for your position and for your firm answer, which also concerns other hospital systems or not only the use and construction of investments in the hospital system, but also the health system. Because I also think that the worst-used investment money is when it stops and doesn't end, not when it gets used. My second question concerns the National Action Plan on Cancer Control 2021-2030. If the Committee on Social Affairs wanted to hear this at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year, it had not actually been possible to develop these steps as to how they would proceed. It is understandable that during the kroon virus, officials and ministerial staff were very much concerned with this problem. But if we say every morning how many people have fallen ill because of cancer or how many people have left because of cancer, I think everyone would be very busy. Can you give me any information on the state of play?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U310	Thank you. A perfectly legitimate question. Every year, in Estonia, the cancer diagnosis reaches 8500-9000 people and more than 4,000 of us leave due to cancer diseases. This is also why we prepared and adopted the National Action Plan on Cancer Control last year. It is now really the completion of this operational programme and it is also the application for additional funding under this operational programme for the implementation of these activities in the national budgetary strategy process. The operational programme is not yet ready, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and the National Institute for Health Development are working on it in cooperation with health stakeholders. I very much hope that the Social Affairs Committee will also be able to present this process to you at the appropriate time, either before the final completion of the operational programme or after the completion of the operational programme, according to how the Social Affairs Committee itself proposes it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U311	No further questions. We can go to the negotiations, and the first to sign up is Priit Sibul of the Fatherland. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U312	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Colleagues! Given that we have been in a health emergency for the last few years, the development strategy "Estonia 2035" is general, without ideas and solutions, mainly a description of long-term problems. At least that's what I got when I listened to the Minister's report. I do not find it strange if we are unable to present our ideas and proposals in discussions on such documents. How, then, can we be prepared for, or prepare for, crises or difficult situations if they are to come, if we do not even dare to talk about them? This document is rumbling out of nowhere. But it could be mute, full of questions we can discuss, and we need to find answers together. The government, which otherwise loves to link everything to the war in Ukraine, now that this topic could even be relevant, practically did not mention it. The Development Monitoring Centre of the Riigikogu has presented as its strategy document a vision of the future of Estonian health care, which could have been the same basis for the discussion here. The document describes four scenarios: health-dream, pragmatic world, half-revenue, or the past. The Minister did not consider it necessary to dwell on this document, indeed, marked it. The Ministry has completed its strategy, but I have a question: how many health scenarios or strategy documents does Estonia really need? Human health, responsibility for health is a personal good, not a social one. I'm responsible for my health and health. The tax system should support this. Health prevention is important and it is at least as important or even more important than treatment. In my opinion, we are still using too little of the means appropriate to the e-state. We have not defined the system's mother problem or what is most important. Too much I think people want to see a doctor instead of waiting for a doctor's decision or position. We need to see him physically for some reason. But the system must be built in such a way that we trust the system, and this system will guide us at the right time and at the right time to the doctor, if that is necessary. In my opinion and in the opinion of our party, the focus of the health system must be on the person and his health, not on hospitals, family doctors, nurses or carers. It would make perfect sense that each person has a personal health plan agreed with a family doctor, which we will then carry out together to live longer and healthily. Disease prevention and health preservation requires regular monitoring and research to get medical advice and help on time. Then we know what our responsibility is and what we expect of the system, which system we can maintain, so that it also meets our needs and solves our problems. A difficult time like this is the right and the best time to carry out analyses. I have talked about personal responsibility, but we also need to find answers to the long-standing problems of training nurses and their pay. In difficult times, you need to think about what this hospital network must be like. I also asked the Minister whether we only had a question about centres of attraction or even only in regional hospitals. But I am pleased because it seems that there is a common section here rather that the existing hospital network needs to be maintained. As I said, the need to build a Tallinn Hospital in this document arose in no way for me, and it still seems to me that it is a party-political solution rather than a solution to the problem of health care in Estonia. One thing is clear: people live longer. The healthcare system is increasingly expected to have new [solutions] and complex challenges, but the system's money is not generated by itself; rather, it will be reduced. We need to decide what our own specific responsibility is, whether and what place private medicine is, what kind of government order and how to channel it, in order for people to live longer, healthier and happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U313	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U314	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors in this hall and behind their TVs! Good people who are watching this trial! I will focus first on the health field. Looking at what has happened and is happening in recent years and up to this day in the world, any long-term development strategies are activities falling within the category of clear vision or blind forecasting. They simply cannot be done in a realistic way, because there is no way of knowing what will happen tomorrow, five years or more, in 13 years' time. It is not known what our country and the world will be in, and what problems we will face. So, especially from today's point of view, the long-term development strategies are just beautiful visions and dreams. But, obviously, the main goal is a healthier society, a healthier state and a healthier nation. The question is how to achieve this. Everything is beautiful in theory, but in practice it has been very, very difficult to move towards it. Unfortunately, in our health care, the tendency has been to deal with the consequences, not to identify the cause. If there is pain, the main focus will be to remove the pain, prescribe a painkiller or reduce the inflammation, and it will all end. A temporary solution will be addressed. At first, the problem will go away, but after a while, the same will happen again. The same treatment is repeated. What causes pain and what causes pain is unfortunately not dealt with. They don't do it because they don't have resources, no money, no doctors. I really want to believe it's only for these reasons. We do not have available medical care, even though we live in the 21st century, especially outside Tallinn. Family doctors are overloaded by extremely long lists, making it difficult to get in touch with them in the event of a health problem, not to mention the possibility of getting a quick reception. Getting to a specialist is pretty hopeless. They're either gone at all, or they're not due for reception until months, if that's the case. And in some cases, even in a completely different region. In the meantime, the problem gets worse, or eventually it may be too late to get help. People are suffering for weeks and months. The same goes for hospital care. People wait months in line to access the necessary and often time - critical surgery. It has become quite common that during the waiting period of the hospital, an emergency department or an ambulance should be contacted regularly in order to stabilise or alleviate the worsening condition temporarily, or until the surgery is completed. It is in the medical system of everyday life, and these problems have been happening for years. This is real life. People's quality of life suffers, becomes more depressed, and depression arrives. It's so easy to suffer and suffer. All of this results in the suffering of the general public's spiritual health. Being sick and in pain can't be ambitious, happy, and happy. A sick person cannot work, employment is reduced, the economic inability to cope with life is getting worse. One big vicious circle. I did not include all this in this development strategy in order to solve the above problem. In the development strategy, I mainly read about dealing with the consequences, such as the reimbursement of sick days, unemployment benefits or patient insurance, and the creation of information systems. The main content of all strategies and reforms has been the development of various information systems. The organisation of society as a whole has focused mainly on all kinds of databases and data collection. But what they're going to do to the person they're collecting the data for themselves is going to be useful... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U315	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U316	...this strategy doesn't provide for it. At least this isn't written in this strategy. And finally. According to this strategy, funding for health is one of the most serious challenges. I'm sure that's the case. But what are we going to do about it? The mere statement of fact does not lead to a solution. Why don't we focus on the main people's problems and start with where the shoe squeezes the most? Why focus on idealistic goals, make development strategies that do not even address real problems, not to mention finding a solution for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U317	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U318	Head of a good sitting and good members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister Tanel Kiik! During the last two years, the corona crisis rocked the Estonian health care system thoroughly. This crisis highlighted the shortcomings in our health care system. As a positive side, I believe that the whole medical system, at the same time, became stronger and more united. Cooperation and altruism increased considerably. Together, more people were helped by night and sleep hours. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to thank all medical staff. It is clear that the shortage of staff in the health sector cannot be resolved within one or two years. We all know that the training of doctors is time-consuming, but all the more so this year, the government should decide to find extra money in healthcare after 2024. A total of EUR 540 million has been allocated to the Health Insurance Fund for the period 2021 to 2024 to cover the deficit caused by the fall in social tax receipts due to the crisis. In order to ensure a better sense of security for the medical system employees and Estonians, it is therefore necessary to make an additional money decision as soon as possible. A reduction in treatment queues is only possible through additional funding. Doctors and nurses and other specialists are therefore needed in the coming years for our health care. The Coronal crisis confirmed that there is a great need for a modern and complex hospital. For this purpose, Tallinn Hospital is suitable for providing services to all people, from Harjumaa and Läänemaa to South and East Estonia. In short, all people living in Estonia would need this hospital. Unfortunately, there is still uncertainty about the financing of the construction of Tallinn Hospital. It seems to me that the state is trying to turn this issue of funding more politically onto the city of Tallinn. This tactic is wrong. I am convinced that the state must make far more financial contributions to the construction of this hospital than is planned. Honour and praise that the city of Tallinn is ready to contribute 150 million euros itself, but the state should come to the aid of at least the same amount or more. During the last 20 years, our country has focused mainly on the development of two major sites: the medical campus in Tartu Maarjamõisa and the development of the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital complex. However, Tallinn Central Hospital provides 25% of all specialised medical care throughout Estonia. This is despite the fact that they have not been supported in the same way nationally. It is therefore time to build the Tallinn Hospital, which would be a solid pillar of our health care system alongside the University of Tartu Hospital and the PERH. Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour, sincerely thank you for your contribution to resolving the corona crisis! It was a difficult time for our health care system. Fortunately, however, today we are standing on solid feet with our medicine. Good luck with your health care and getting extra money for the Tallinn Hospital! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U319	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U320	I'll ask for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U321	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues, and all of you who are watching us! I think this issue is very important for each and every one of us. It was good to hear about serious actions and the planned presentation by the Minister. There are many problems that need to be solved. I will give you a few references to the recent OECD report, which states, like other OECD countries, the health profile of Estonia in 2021, of course not quoting everything, but still some aspects. The life expectancy of Estonian residents has increased considerably over the last two decades. Unfortunately, it has to be said that in the last two COVID years, however, it has been reduced by four months again. The health status of the population has been approaching the European Union average since 2001. However, the aggregate indicators mask the inequalities between regions, genders and socio-economic groups. Estonia continues to spend more on this, and the speakers already had significantly less talk about health care than most other countries, so in fact the health care system has been constantly underfunded. In 2019, for example, a total of 1733 euros per person per year was spent on health care in Estonia, while the European Union average is 3528 euros. Total expenditure on GDP is 6.7%, the European Union average is 9.9%. Clearly, for years now, it has been shown that the fact that healthcare has been funded from one source, as the Minister pointed out here, has not really been successful in any country. Well, we'll have to say that, too. We already have an own contribution of 23.9% and this is significantly higher than the European Union average, which is 15.4%. Indeed, the Estonian government has been supportive, has provided additional resources from the state budget during the pandemic, but especially given previous problems with underfunding, the sustainability of the financing of the health care system is a key problem and long-term financing mechanisms are needed. These mechanisms are actually necessary to close existing gaps in the insurance coverage of the population. Unfortunately, we also have to say about the health outcomes that we have problems here. Both preventable and avoidable mortality is higher in Estonia than the European Union average. These figures have improved, but not where we would like to see them. One of the main causes of avoidable deaths remains coronary heart disease. The mortality rate here is twice the EU average. Fortunately, the mortality rate has decreased in the event of a stroke. About 44% of our people, adults, report at least one chronic illness, and the European Union average is 36%. It is estimated that cancer mortality is significantly higher than the European Union average. In 2020, 3980 people died of cancer - 293 deaths per 100,000 people - an average of 260 in the European Union. As already mentioned in previous presentations, too few doctors and nurses are trained in Estonia per 1000 inhabitants, we have 3.5 doctors and 3.9 on average in the European Union; there are 6.2 nurses and 8.4 nurses in the European Union. So, in fact, this labour needs and the gap between the number of trained workers cannot in any way guarantee sustainability for the health care system. The untreated treatment requirement is 15.5%, compared to 1.7% in the European Union. This is particularly the case due to long waiting lists. That is 15.5% of us, the European Union average is 0.7%. You'll see what the difference is. From recognising new and more effective medicines in the European Union to reaching our patients, these medicines must go through the longest journey of the various mechanisms, over 900 days. Finland has 150 days and 200 days of data. Actually, they won't make it when they need to. The pandemic has undoubtedly left its mark in the whole area of public health and development of the health system, and there are delays in the implementation of the Health Development Plan of the Estonian population, nutrition and movement, the Green Paper and the Action Plan on Cancer Protection, which we also heard from the Minister. When it comes to health science, it has always been an area of very different arguments. It all depends on what chair someone's sitting in. Economists, doctors, politicians and the sick can be in very exclusive positions. So, in fact, there is no single political precept for health systems. One thing is certain: the health system is always in a dynamic working process. We have understood this in Estonia. We have many different, beautifully written strategies. Really nice papers. But it all depends on what happens next, whether they are actually implemented. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that public health is a fundamental principle of national stability. There cannot be a linear, simplified approach, but there must be an integrated approach. This requires dialogue and cooperation between different areas of public health, medicine, social sciences, applied physics, economics, etc. Computerized social science could provide a suitable transdisciplinary platform here. Today has raised the issue of health security again. Policy areas where health and security overlap. It is pandemics, bioterrorism, infectious diseases and wars that are potential threats. The European Commission, Mr Stella Kyriakides, stresses this very strongly and attaches great importance to the readiness to respond to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. This is the basis for the existence of the European Union. We have a lot of work to do here. Returning to the COVID years, it is appropriate to quote Joshua Lederberg, the Nobel Biology Prize winner. Pandemics take off masks, show who we really are, what our morals, values, ethics and humanity are on which our actions are based. They're testing us in ways that nothing else can do. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It depends on each one of us how our companions live or not. I wish the Minister responsible for health policy consistency in ensuring health security for the people of Estonia. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U323	It's okay. Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U324	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Dear Minister for Health and Labour and the watchers of the transfer! It is very difficult to come here and talk about an area in which you are not home, after such a cryphal and expert as Professor Hele Everaus, who is the first speaker. But I'll do my best. Once again, thank the Minister for this review. "Estonia 2035" gave an overview, as has been said before, in a relatively positive key, but was less focused on providing solutions to the problems. Even at the current level, the Estonian health care system will not be able to provide health care services and medical care in the next few years if the financing system continues. This has also been highlighted by the Development Monitoring Centre, which in its analysis of the financing of the health system sets out four strategies and scenarios. And the future isn't very bright. We have excellent doctors, nurses, other people working in health care, but also in the social field, who, with these scarce financial resources, can achieve good results. Good results in comparison. That is why I say that their treatment and getting there, and the long order of treatment, are precisely what, unfortunately, often leaves this even better outcome in part. We live longer than we have been, but will our healthy years grow? Old age isn't a disease, it's part of the life cycle. However, in old age, people also need health care more often, but also social services. Older people often live in rural areas, and it is very important for regional policy and health institutions, as well as other health care activities, to fund their construction, because Estonia is not only Tallinn and Tallinn is not Estonia. If we only create an excellent health care system in Tallinn or Tartu, we often reduce the readiness and livelihood of the whole of Estonia in regional policy. The Minister in his review has already stopped at a high level of ownership. This is the case from dental care and also from other points of view, such as medication. It was said that people not covered by health insurance still have quite a problem, about 100,000, and there has also been talk about the need for universal health insurance. But, as I asked, the whole view and the longer vision are still important. In the financing of the Health Insurance Fund, for example, there have been very few contributions to home care, which has risen but not enough, and prevention. Suddenly we have the hope that the development strategy "Estonia 2035" will not only remain on paper but will also be implemented. And, of course, thank you very much to all people working in health care. Because they are often the people who, in relatively scarce financial resources, can protect people. I would also like to thank those working in the social field, because these two areas are connected to the umbilical cord. Excellent results in the health care system do not lead to healing or improvement if after-treatment or later home support services do not work for the benefit of the person and in one clock. Finally. In the case of the National Action Plan on Cancer 2021-2030, we hope that the steps of the implementation plan will soon also reach us in the Committee on Social Affairs, but, most importantly, those who fall ill with this very bad disease. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U325	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U326	Thank you very much. The cancer detected and treated at the right time is treatable. In this way, people can be given long years of burden, as well as less pressure on health care. These 12 basic thesis, which the Minister of Health and Labour has given us today, actually contain much, much more than can be said in this short eight-minute period. The tenth thesis points out that the health sector and the country as a whole are facing a number of challenges, such as ensuring sustainable funding for health. But how? The follow-up of health professionals and other professionals must be ensured. Well, the first steps have been taken here, the reception has been increased. It is probably also a question of pay. "To reduce inequalities in health care" is necessary to have universal health insurance. "Provide near-home and accessible medical care" is possible if we also create a development plan, hospitals with equipment that can provide first and really close to home care with family doctors. Continue the necessary investment in health infrastructure and increase the lives of people who have lived healthy. "Yes, this can only be done in cooperation with people and in cooperation with health and social systems. I would, of course, like to wish the Minister a great deal of strength to implement these teas and thoughts. But one thing is certain: if we continue this financing system, we will not be able to guarantee even the level that is today for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U327	Thank you. No more speeches can be made, all the political groups have received the floor, so I will close the negotiations. Our third item on the agenda today is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U328	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Merry Aarti, Kert Kingo, Kalle Grünthali, Peeter Ernitsa, Anti Polandmets, Ruuben Kaalepi, Martin Repinski, Henn Põlluaasa and Urmas Reitelmann on 24 March 2022 concerning reference quotas on Lake Peipsi. Representative of the heirs, Member of the Riigikogu Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U329	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that it is good to sit in the hall and listen to the presentations when people talk about the microphone in such a way that they understand the words and the hall does not behave like the senior kindergarten group during recess. Really nice and enjoyable. I'll try to continue in this style. An inquiry to Minister Savisaar was submitted on 24 March, if it was not yet known what the state of the amendments to the Fisheries Act were, including the transition to individual quotas. Fishermen have applied for individual quotas for ten to eleven years, so far in vain. 85% of the fishing opportunity holders have repeatedly approached different committees as well as the Ministry of the Environment and Rural Affairs with a proposal to amend the fishing law and to introduce individual quotas for fishing gear. An amendment to the Fisheries Act has been proposed by eight fisheries-related organisations and four Peipsiääre municipalities. I will read you some thoughts about the analysis of "Olympic fishing and its impact on the economic environment and tax behaviour" by Paul Tammert, Aule Kindsigo and Vahur Kivistik. As the Olympic season opens, the start of the fishermen's competition will be to catch as much fish as possible in a short time. This tends to encourage fishermen to risk their lives, as well as technology, because they also go to the lake in dangerous weather conditions. The UN has condemned Olympic fishing, in particular from a safety point of view. By delivering large quantities of fish in a short period of time, market participants lose a large proportion of their potential income, as fish are frozen in an oversupply situation, so that it can later be sold significantly cheaper than fresh fish. On the basis of labour taxes, fishermen pay around 700 euros a month. The current Olympic model for sharing fishing rights is particularly useful for Russian fishermen and/or intermediaries who can deliver fresh fish to the Estonian market throughout the year and free from competition. The so-called Olympic fishing undermines the export capacity of Estonian companies, as the price of frozen fish abroad is cheap and its supply possibilities are limited. This problem, where the Olympic system destroys the export capacity of fresh fish in the Peipus fisheries sector to the Western European markets, can be considered the most economically damaging effect of the Olympic system. There are still some of these good things here, but the solution is to propose that fishing authorisations be allocated by gear and by reference to reference quantities. Finally, the situation has changed since March. The fishing law has been agreed in both ministries and will be discussed tomorrow in the Committee on Rural Affairs. However, I would ask Minister Savisaar to clarify the situation a little, with the exception of Question 2, which I myself have just answered. I tried to get an answer to Question 4, but I learned that even if the process of processing had begun, it was a national secret and that cannot be said. So there is hope for information from the Minister about the situation in Lake Peipsi, Pihkva and Lake Lämmijärv regarding reference quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U330	And now I would like to ask Mr. Erki Savisaare, Minister for the Environment of the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U331	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will try to answer the questions asked in the order in which they are presented. The first question: "What is the reason why the amendment to the Law on fisheries has taken so long? " Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The drafting and adoption of laws is entirely within the competence of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu chooses the pace of its procedure itself. This bill has been here in the Riigikogu for years, too, and I believe you can respond better than I do, why this bill has not been able to pass all the readings. I know so much that since the fishing law allowing individual quotas for Lake Peipsi has been amended several times and has also been discussed here in the Riigikogu in the Committee on Rural Affairs, in the Committee on the Environment and in the joint sessions of these committees, there have also been a number of meetings between fishermen and ministries, as well as meetings involving ministers, both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Affairs, so let us say that these meetings have had different opinions and no consensus has been reached to date. All these discussions have taken time, because this change is fundamental and also complicated enough. Nevertheless, the Riigikogu has the opportunity to choose the appropriate pace of procedure and to make all the changes that you, as representatives of the people, consider necessary in this law. I'll skip the second question, at the request of the inquisitors. The third question: 'Doesn't the so-called 'Olympian fishing' put our fishermen in an unequal position and give a competitive advantage to intermediaries and the fishermen of the neighbouring country. "Based on the catch statistics of the three previous years (2019, 2000 and 2021), it cannot be concluded that our fishermen are in a worse position than the Russian side. The main species of fish, which are bass, pike, place, latika, Peipsi ink, herring and shirt, have been caught by Estonian fishermen in the same order of magnitude and during the same period for months. The main fishing months are April, September and October. This makes sense, taking into account the seasonality of fishing and fishing conditions. Russia's main fishing months have been the last months of the year. For example, in the previous three years Russia caught 530 tonnes of these species in December, while two tonnes were caught in Estonia. As a rule, in December, Lake Peipsi does not have enough ice deposits and weather conditions are not suitable for fishing. It is difficult to explain such large catches at this time and it can be assumed that Russian fishermen are providing incorrect catch data. In Russia, the rule is that if the company does not catch most of its quota, that is 75 to 80%, the company's fishing rights will fall next year. Therefore, Russian companies have an incentive to artificially distort catch data. Therefore, the data on the Russian side would not be a good example. It is clear that different fishing regimes have their own good and faults. The system of reference quotas also has its own good and faults. If this amendment to the law that is in the proceedings of the Riigikogu enters into force, then there will certainly also be problems relating to reference quotas. Question 4: "Does the unconfirmed data on the results of OÜ Rolevar's inspection and verification work prove true? " I can say this: it is true that at the beginning of March this year OÜ Rolevar was controlled by the Environmental Board. At the time of the inspection, documentation of the origin of the fish was submitted, according to which the bass came from Russia and also from the Member States of the European Union, Poland and Finland. By checking the bass on the holding, it became clear that there are clear indications of fishing with fishing gears. The mouths of these fish were broken, their eyes were missing, and so on. There was reason to suspect that the fish came from recreational fishing. The sale and buying-in of fish caught in recreational fisheries shall not be permitted. Fish were counted and sampled in an expert to determine their origin. There is no expert response at the moment. Procedural proceedings have been initiated and, as the procedure is still ongoing, no definitive conclusions can yet be drawn. As can be concluded from the question, some recreational fish on Peipsi can be moved to industry through false documents. This clearly undermines fair competition and creates additional pressure on so-called professional recreational fishing. In the event of such events, monitoring should be stepped up, in particular on the part of fish collectors and processors, in order to determine the origin of the fish, and the relevant authorities in neighbouring countries should also be involved in order to avoid the use of falsified documents across borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U332	Okay. Peeter Ernits starts with questions to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U333	Good manager! Dear waitress, Do you have any idea how much historical fishing rights there are on Lake Peipsi and Lake Pihkva in the hands of the great fish kings? What is the distribution of cards in this area now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U334	Thank you. I didn't take these exact numbers with me now, but I guess most of these fishing rights have really only reached out to a few companies with some formula, and they're competing to get the fish out of that lake as soon as possible. The problem here is not so big on this part of Lake Peipus as it is that fishing seasons are slightly different on Lake Peipus and Lake Lämmijärv. At the time of the favourable conditions in Lake Lämmijärv, a quota has already been drawn up in Peipsi and there is no fishing on the lake on reasonable terms. I guess that's where the big conflict came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U335	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As far as I know, Lake Peipsi is connected to the Emajõgi River. And the principle is, from Lake Peipsi, it comes to the river Emajõgi to spawn a barn. When it's time for the batter season, the whole Emajõgi River bank has been lined up every three meters with a large part of the Latvians that pull the batter out of plastic bags and take it away. Obviously, it is not recreational fishing anymore, but fishing for profit. I personally went there to check with the environmentalists of Tartu, but unfortunately the cooperation of that time was stopped, the government fell, and this amendment was not introduced into the Fisheries Act in order to adopt a decision restricting Latvian business here. Is there any point in moving forward in this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U337	Thank you. If you see an infringement anywhere, it must undoubtedly be reported to the relevant monitoring bodies, who can control it and also carry out the necessary procedural procedures. As regards the amendment of the law, as a member of the Riigikogu, you have the right to make the necessary amendments to the law and, if the large chamber of the Riigikogu supports it, to introduce these amendments into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U338	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U339	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 27 February 2020, the Government of the Republic announced in its decision that they unanimously supported the amendment of the Fisheries Act in what is currently the subject of an inquiry. Now more than two years have passed since then, the new government has also come in the meantime. No. The Ministry of the Environment continues to hold the portfolio of the Centre Party, so the Reform Party became the brake. Do you know what they actually pressed for? Because then, while the current Minister for Rural Affairs was still there in the Committee on Rural Affairs, he finally supported it. What rock was that fish under for two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U340	Thank you. Well, the bill is in Riigikogu proceedings. This law, which is the subject of this debate, is, after all, a draft law initiated by the Riigikogu Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Riigikogu has always had the opportunity to go on with this when the time is right. Both the current Minister for the Environment and the current Minister for Rural Affairs have sent their proposals on this draft. Perhaps this will contribute to discussions in the Riigikogu. Time will tell whether or not the Riigikogu supports these proposals, but both ministries are ready to move forward with this fishing law. I would also like to point out that there is a system of individual quotas in the Baltic Sea, for example, and the fishermen there are very pleased with this system. There are no very big reasons why the same system could not exist on Lake Peipsi. In this respect, good Riigikogu, move forward with this law, which I can tell you otherwise. We have discussed these various details together with the fishermen, and I say that there are certain problems in the reference quotas that I have pointed out, and that is where the discussions are. Opinions are wall-to-wall and changes are feared. However, one moment maybe you have to do it or try it out, maybe it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U341	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U342	Thank you. I should say, though, that I am sincerely pleased, it is perhaps also a bit historic in Estonia, that two ministries, two ministers have reached consensus among themselves and jointly came to the Committee on Rural Affairs with their proposals. But actually, if we discuss a little bit, I would like to ask for an opinion on how this individual quota affects our fishermen, ordinary fishermen. What's that guess compared to the Olympic fishing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U343	Like I said, those opinions are wall-to-wall. There are those who find that beyond this happiness comes to the yard, and there are those who think that the whole fishing industry by Peipsi is going to die and stop operating, and no one is going to fish. Well, maybe that's the truth in between. But there is a very clear difference, of course, between these fishing methods. If we take the individual code, it is set with certain fishermen and certain gears, and fishermen can decide for themselves when they will try to share the quantity they have promised, whether to distribute it evenly or seasonally over the whole period, as best suited to them. No one else can catch the quota they have been allocated. If we take the Olympic fishing, then the quota is common to all who have more efficient fishing gear, it gets the fish. Whoever gets there faster and finds that fish gets it. So they both have, like I said, certain pros and cons. It is up to the legislator to consider them and to decide how fishing could be in this area in the future. In the discussions so far, the individual fishermen are those who have been opposed. Major companies have generally been in favour of these changes. And both have arguments that you should take seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U344	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been together in this Riigikogu for more than three years. During this time, I believe, it is quite possible... Oh, I remember. I remember, there's a question at the time of questioning. Thank you! Mr. Minister, there are no further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U346	Okay. Negotiation time. Please! Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Well, yeah, I don't even know whether to rejoice or not. Indeed, as early as 2020, or at the beginning of 2020, we almost reached the conclusion that we could adopt this law. There was also a sure hope that this would happen this year. But then this whole process sank in between, I don't know, into the swamp or the mud of Peipsi. In any case, he did not move an inch forward and there was really reason for fishermen to ask what was going on. At the time, I was also a waitress for this draft committee in the Riigikogu. Indeed, we had a whole series of discussions in the Commission, as well as a hearing of the parties, but as the Minister mentioned here today, if the individual quota works well in West Estonia, why couldn't he work on Peipsi then, these Peipsi fishermen will not be so different. It's a different idea, really. I hope that we can discuss this in this Chamber, when it finally comes to second reading. Right now there's a rabid and ink, but actually, you should take a longer step now. We've been doing this for two years, and we've been accused of doing this on a number of occasions. We have to think that this two years of lost time really means something to the rural economy, and now it is really time to take a step in which, in addition to the herring and ink, we are going to switch to the individual quota for other fish. I very much and very much hope that both the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and both ministries worked effectively over this two year period, analysed all the bottlenecks and found a solution to all the bottlenecks, how to switch not only to the rabid and ink, but to the individual quota for all fish. I also wish them the strength to finally implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U348	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U349	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's kind of a very bearded, pretty gray bearded story. I myself have been an ambassador to Tartu and Jõgeva County for years. If a little higher rise and look at the Peipsi-Pihkva and Lämmijärv areas, there have been three fish kings in general. That's what people call them. They hold a large proportion of the historical fishing rights. And they have given their fishermen the opportunity to catch, not with one net, with a gillnet, but with more, historically. Many have had the status of a serf. They have been manipulated; they have been brought to party days for some parties. It's been a long time since we found out it wasn't quite nice, and so on. But it's kind of a general background. It is also important to understand that if there is one lake, we are now talking about Lake Peipsi-Pihkva, the two are from the shores, but the fish are one that swims between the two shores, but the systems are different. On one side of the shore, life goes to the Olympics Whoever catches out faster, it's a success. If they have most of this historic fishing right, they'll catch it and the others will suck their fingers or whatever. That's it. But on the other side, Russia, there is no Olympic, there is an individual fishing. See, that's what it is. Of course, no fish knows that. Maybe they do. They swim there, but we're talking about people's concerns and fishermen's concerns here with those who want to get fresh fish over the year. In this respect, it makes sense to switch to an individual quota. Let me remind you, one lake, two banks, different systems now. Fish between the two shores swim the same, all these places, bass, bats, ink, slags, very tasty, which, in the meantime, has been in a very bad state, but now, in recent years, not so bad and it is possible to get it. Let me give you some examples. One of those fish kings, Pleshenko, is no longer king of the fish, but he had, for example, four mutants, 320 nets, and 160 bitches. And, well, there were three of them, three of them, the king of the fish and the bigger one, who had the larger parts of the historical fishing right. The same structure of historical fishing rights is also found elsewhere, also on the coast, also in the coastal sea, but we are talking about Lake Peipsi-Pihkva. Why is that a good idea? Although we have been trying to make this breakthrough here in the Riigikogu for more than ten years to make it possible. At this point, I mean, if there's two shores, there's no sign of where he's from. If we are caught here on the shores of Estonia, for example, in a few years in January in ten days, a large part of the quota will be caught. With more powerful tools and more, they get [faster]. Last year, a large part of the quota was caught in 37 days. And then there's the same thing that if 90% of the quota is already in the hands of one fish, such as the place's quota, the catch will be closed so that there's no such moment as to make it go away with that quota. Then other fish may not be caught by other fish whose quota is not yet full. Well, there are examples, and there are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U350	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U351	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U352	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U353	In order not to get too long, [I just say that] at this point I really see a positive side that it is not quite normal when fishing is caught between two ministries. At the moment, at least these two ministers agree more or less, as well as their subordinates, officials. There is hope that some kind of breakthrough can be achieved in 12 years after this fight has been fought. And in that case, it's possible to make an individual quota so that you don't have to rush right now, you can see when you're going to catch, and you know what your chances are. It is also possible that we and the people are most interested in having fresh fish throughout the year, precisely the fish that Estonian fishermen have caught. Today, quite a lot is being brought from the other side of the lake, and there is much to speculate about. By the way, there's another moment that maybe we can't talk about. Since the price of fish, place and bass in the sea is higher than that of Lake Peipsi, it has been moving quietly to Europe for years. Since the price of baby bass is very high in Europe, not just in the place, it is made into a sea fish. There's no sign attached. It's got a better price and moved like that. Here, of course, is that a lot of people use secret nets there. The inspection reports every year that thousands and tens of thousands of nets are pulled out of Lake Peipsi-Pihkva. Here's, let's say, a mess quite large. There's a lot of booths where the inspection works, but the powers aren't big enough to keep this whole company in check. So in any case, this step is in the right direction, although it does not mean that the shovel can solve all these problems. But I hope we're moving at least that way right now. So far, everything's just hanging out. It's like one lake, two shores, two different approaches. On one side they run after the Olympic system and on the other side they don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U354	Negotiated. Looks like there's no more calls. We have also exhausted this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U355	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the story is that I do not have any more points on the agenda. I assume you don't either, so we can go to a free microphone. So please, a free microphone and give a hand signal through the button push. Yeah, we need a hammer, too, you can't have a hammer in this house. [[Hammer strike.]] All right, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U356	Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again use the speech chair of the Riigikogu, looking back at today. Today was added to the list of shameful days of the Riigikogu. The coalition parties adopted the Aliens Act in its unaltered state, which President Alar Karis sent back to the Riigikogu. The vote today thus shows that the Reform Party and the Central Party have thrown parliamentary democracy into the trash. The coalition decided to ignore the contradictions with the Aliens Act, to which I and my group members from the Fatherland Group referred, as well as the President's explanation and the decision not to declare the law. Not only has the draft under discussion violated the Constitution, our Home and Working Procedures Act and good parliamentary culture, but it has also behaved unethically, taking advantage of the war situation in Ukraine and what is happening there. In the shadow of this, it is as if in solving the problem of refugees it was intended to change the fundamentals of the entire migration policy to date. This is shameful and exceptionally unethical. The resulting disagreements in Parliament would have helped to prevent urgent refugee issues from being kept separate from migration policy as a whole. The coalition decided to go against the spirit of the Constitution and not to follow the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu. It was used to do the refugees themselves a disservice. The law would have been passed a long time ago, but now the dispute has stretched, maybe it will also reach the Supreme Court and stretch over and over again. Thus, coalition ambassadors have put all parties in a very uncomfortable position, including the Head of State. Of course, after the second reading, the President had made substantial changes, otherwise the President would have had no reason to send it back to Parliament. It was really interesting to hear the explanation of the coalition that a question and a speech from this chair would replace the possibility of proposing amendments and eliminate the conflict with the law on domestic and working procedures and the constitution. I very much hope that the President will have the backbone to stick to his proposal and will not go along with the law adopted by the coalition's votes and violations of the Constitution and he will take this law to the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-09_U357	There's no more calls. So, if they are not there, we are done with the sitting today. Thank you all for holding up! I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
