ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the VII plenary session. And now there's an opportunity to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please! You don't see that wish. So we're going to run a presence check. Requesting presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U2	73 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U3	We are going to the review of today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the debate on a key national issue, entitled "The state of play in helping Ukraine," initiated by the Special Committee on National Budget Control. We are also going over this debate quickly. First, the presentation by the chairman of the committee, Urmas Reinsalu, is up to 20 minutes, then the questions and answers are up to 30 minutes. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Then comes the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, Eva-Maria Liimets, who has up to 20 minutes to speak and up to 30 minutes to ask questions to members of the Riigikogu. Third, we are waiting for the Speaker's Chair of the Riigikogu, the CEO of Slava Ukrainian Johanna-Maria Lehtmet, whose presentation is up to 20 minutes, and the questions-answers are up to 30 minutes. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Riigikogu to the fact that you can ask a question to each performer if you are quick enough with your fingers. Maybe we can answer all the questions. If the respondents do so quickly, you can ask for more. And there is a request that representatives of the political groups first appear during the negotiations, and then other members of the Riigikogu, as much as there is time. At the end of the debate, we will not take a decision. Now, please, President of the Special Committee on State Budget Control Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U4	Honourable representative of the people! The Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine is continuing. There will be a critical moment in the coming days when Russia will launch a massive attack on the east. There is also a risk of a further impact on the north, as troops are currently being reassembled northwards on the territory of Belarus and the Russian Federation in the border region. The war in Ukraine is our war, we must win this war. We must help Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as much as we can. This is our task, both for humanity and for the Ukrainian people. First of all, I would like to thank all public officials, public authorities, businesses and citizens for the contribution that has been made to support Ukraine. Every bet, even the smallest bet, is important. There's no small help. Any help is invaluable. I would particularly like to congratulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which set up a separate humanitarian aid centre on 1 March, on the basis of a government decision. I stressed that every aid is important, but unfortunately the real need for assistance that Ukraine needs is, on a large scale, greater than the real-time delivery of the countries today. I would like to congratulate the Ukrainian ambassador, the Ukrainian embassy, who has been a very good partner in resolving and coordinating all aid issues. I want to stress that our efforts to help must not be slowed down; it must grow. That is a principled position. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we discussed issues related to Ukraine's assistance last week. Representatives of the Ukrainian Government, Alexandera Vassilenko, Special Envoy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and Svjatoslav Senjuta, Adviser to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, also participated. I would like to stress that in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we did not specifically address the issue of war refugees, which is a special series of topics in Estonia: Estonia's capacity and the capacity of local governments to organise these issues. In the Commission's view, the focus of our debate today is precisely what Estonia, as a Member State of the European Union and other European countries should provide further assistance to Ukraine. Now that we look at the areas of aid in this situation, one of the most critical is food aid, the food problem. Over 10 million people are currently in serious food shortages in Ukraine. If, according to the Ukrainian representatives, we are currently assessing the need for food aid, the Ukrainian border is over 5 000 tonnes of food, both in aid and in purchased quantities. However, the actual need for aid is 15 000 tonnes of food. This means, as the representatives of the Ukrainian Government have pointed out, that the current aid in the form of large-scale food aid takes place in such a way that voluntary organisations operate in countries spontaneously by sending assistance. It is very appreciated aid and bilaterally managed by countries, but it is precisely a centrally organised food aid policy in the European Union that is needed. The Commission therefore considered it reasonable to address the government so that our government would propose to the European Commission to establish a food aid mechanism coordinated by the European Commission and to call on all European countries to assist Ukraine. One very positive undertaking was a donor conference that took place in Warsaw. That's where the financial stakes came from. Today, however, it is in the area of food aid that there is critical physical aid, physical food that can be stored. The European crisis management mechanism has been activated, but the European crisis management mechanism is dealing with certain drugs, food water, specifically with a narrower focus than is actually needed at the moment. The serious issue concerns the extensive supply of water, the shipment of water to Ukraine and the supply of portable water treatment facilities, as well as the large-scale supply of medical equipment and medical supplies. Again, this should be the central coordination system of the European Union, the European Commission, because spontaneous aid projects cannot actually cover this need. This deficit is just so big. Another major problem is the lack of fuel. The perspective of the next four weeks, or month, is that Ukraine needs an additional 300000 tonnes of fuel. There is currently an acute agreement through the European Energy Community, which allows for an exceptional and here Poland must be sincerely recognised to use the Polish strategic fuel supply reserve for Ukrainian supplies. However, this aid, taken separately, must also have a larger volume. The countries of the European Union, including Estonia, currently have more than 100 million tonnes of fuel in reserves as required by the European Union. To help Ukraine in one month, this would actually mean somewhere 0.3% of the European fuel reserve. There should certainly also be Estonia's view that it is necessary to apply for the creation of a European-level Ukrainian fuel reserve, from which immediate supplies can come. The Estonian Government, as our Commission called for, should be ready to initiate this problem at European level without delay [solving] and be prepared to contribute itself through our fuel reserve. Now that we are talking about the help that Estonia has already given, there is no doubt that the assistance of weapons deserves special attention. Under military aid, we have supplied Ukraine, as the representative of the Defence Investment Centre pointed out, with anti-tank weapons, ammunition, flak jackets, helmets and medical equipment, also with logistical assistance, in order to bring this aid to the border through the Defence Investment Centre. It certainly has a real impact, but it has also had a huge strategic moral pressure on other European countries to contribute more. In the case of arms aid, what is currently being delivered is undoubtedly insufficient. You have to be honest with me. Now, what else must we have in mind in helping Ukraine? The serious problem relates to supplies and procurement in the Ukrainian economy. In fact, it is understandable that European companies have become distrustful in supplying supplies on the one hand and in placing orders on Ukrainian companies on the other. In order to prevent Ukraine's economy from collapsing, it is necessary to give clear guarantees at European level to the companies that are currently dealing with Ukraine. It is a good thing that Estonia has not given up state guarantees. I call for our business-crediting foundations to expand them. And I call on our government, our Commission, too, to launch a proposal to guarantee Europe-wide full guarantees during the war for those companies in European countries that are currently developing economic activity in Ukraine, that we do not apply market-economy sanctions against Ukraine. Now, the next question concerns the focus of aid in this area. The President of Ukraine has said at a meeting with our representatives that Ukraine would welcome the adoption by European countries of assistance in coordination [to carry] assistance to specific Ukrainian regions and regions. I consider this extremely important. On Saturday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom announced that the United Kingdom would take on such patronage cooperation with the city of Kiev and the region of Kiev. At the moment, we have also had a discussion with representatives of our country, with the Estonian Ambassador specifically about the address of the region of Žõtomyr. Estonia would then be the first Member State of the European Union to be linked to one region as an aid coordinator. This would certainly be extremely relevant, on the one hand, for practical assistance in terms of focus and cooperation in terms of the reconstruction of Ukraine, but, on the other hand, it would undoubtedly provide a huge amount of moral capital in a situation where Estonia would be the first Member State of the European Union in the role of such a coordinator. Now, things that need to be done immediately, with a view to the upcoming massive military invasion and the intimidation of the enemy. The policy of sanctions, of course. These sanctions, which have been implemented, we must say in this Chamber that it is a good thing that there is a common sense at European level with regard to these sanctions. At the same time, it must be recognised honestly that these sanctions are not sufficient. As a symbol, the only source of energy to which the European Union has imposed a sanction is coal. Coal trade with Russia amounts to EUR 5 billion, while oil and gas trade with Russia accounts for several hundred billion euros. In fact, this coal sanction was lifted so that it would apply in four months' time. In four months! Our position here must be clear: full-scale energy sanctioning as a military sanction. Given, too, that we have reserves for the current heating season, including the gas reserves previously mobilised, the call for a stronger moral platform for real pressure on our European allies to be launched with the countries of our region, particularly Latvia and Lithuania, but also with Finland, with whom we are in the same gas supply system, to immediately impose a war sanction on Russian gas. The President of Ukraine acknowledged Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia for giving up Russian gas. But to be honest, it was premature praise. We have not yet made such decisions as a military sanction. It would certainly be appropriate for the government to take such an initiative towards Latvia, Lithuania and Finland without delay, not to mention, of course, such a position at European Union level. As regards the granting of aid, it is true that the Riigikogu restricted the tax exemption granted to companies in the case of certain organisations which provide support. We also excluded Ukraine's country directly and, among other things, the accounts of the Ukrainian state, through which Estonian companies would be able to allocate money for armaments aid. It must be said that a number of companies have complained about this problem and pointed out that it is too restrictive. We also have Johanna-Maria Lehtme today, who is the leader of the quickly and spontaneously born civil society organisation SA Slava Ukraine. In today's debate, he will present a citizens' platform with a view to helping Ukraine, how it would be more sensible to organise it in the country's view and what civil society expectations the country has in order to organise it more efficiently and better. The assistance to Ukraine is certainly appropriate. One thing is the help of civil society, the help of businesses, the supply of medical supplies and food, but I call on our government not only to propose that a European system be set up, but also, at national level, to organise systematic delivery of assistance without delay, namely in the form of food and medical supplies. To this end, we have our reserves, and I think that a small part of the reserves should be transferred without our own continuity being hit and constantly replenishing the reserves is absolutely essential. Finally, I would like to seriously highlight the question of the moral perspective and assessment of the crimes against humanity that have taken place on the Ukrainian territory on a massive scale. These are not the collateral damage caused by the military attack, where civilians are killed. This is a systematic process of killing civilians, which must be clearly assessed and defined as genocide. These are crimes against one nation, against one nation, in order to destroy this nation and this statehood. I have long lists of direct attacks against civilians issued by Ukrainian officials. This morning, we are looking forward to more information about the chemical attack in Mariupoli. I would like to point out that for weeks now, the Russian forces have been carrying out systematic rocket attacks against chemically hazardous stockpiles. These warehouses are close to the location of the civilian population. Of course they're chemical attacks. Thus, the nitric acid terminal has been attacked in the Luhansk region, and so the terminals of hydrochloride have been attacked. Of course, people with a gas mask can wear a gas mask, but without a gas mask, they suffer. Russia is using terror in a state-organized way to destroy people, destroy civilians. It is our duty as a Parliament to make an assessment of this. On this point, I have asked our experts in international law to carry out their analyses, they are there. And there is also a sufficiently specific list of these crimes. So the war will continue, the war will intensify, tens of thousands of people will be dead, and tens of thousands of people will leave their lives in the near future. It means it's our war. Our task is to call on our allies to contribute more. And our task is to contribute more as a country. This is our war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U5	Let's move on to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U6	Good manager! Good Urmas! It slipped through such information that during this war, the gas pipe passing through Ukraine has not been bombed for some reason. Why? [Do you] as former Minister of Foreign Affairs, [can you say]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U7	Because this gas pipeline is the gas that is flowing into Europe, and that is undoubtedly an economic interest for Russia. Figuratively speaking, when we look at the energy supply business, Josep Borrell actually correctly brought the image that Europe has provided a few billion euros of support to Ukraine before the Warsaw Conference, and almost 40 billion dollars of support to Russia. These are the proportions where we are now in reality. So the question is why the Ukrainian troops are not attacking this pipe themselves. This has also been requested by [place] of this pipe. Of course, the Western countries are allies. Under our eyes, on the one hand, there is a war of destruction, a war of the destruction of civilians, but on the other, there is extensive business going on. So that's the reason. And, among other things, I would point out that most of the SWIFT system has not been switched off from more than 300 Russian banks. The list of banks that have been subject to [punitive sanctions] step by step is clearly insufficient. Our question is that, and that is precisely what is important for this, is the assessment of international law on what takes place as a genocide, that it is morally unacceptable for us to have the current gradual sanctions policy. However, we must congratulate our foreign minister, our government, who has clearly pursued this policy and advocated more active sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U8	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this presentation. It must also be said that your activity in supporting Ukraine is very sympathetic and certainly very helpful to Ukraine. And that's why I'm asking you. In order for any action to be successful, it must first be clear about the concepts and objectives of the action. Yesterday, we were in a bit of a storm in the process of handling bill 241. The Constitutional Commission uses the term "military conflict in Ukraine" to describe what is happening in Ukraine in [the draft]. We all still have the impression that this is a massive attack by the Russian Federation on Ukraine or aggression. Can you help me figure out if it's important to define it exactly here? And if we're wrong, what's the effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U10	Thank you. Of course, it is necessary to be unconditionally precise on these issues, because the use of vague terms, or even misleading terms, can become a weapon in the hands of the opponent today or later. And if this misleading term is in the text of the law that has been adopted, it is actually the official assessment of what is happening in the Republic of Estonia. I certainly do not think that the writer in this text was, in any way, a Russian agent or acted on the grounds of Russian [interests]. It's just a rare kind of ignorance or ignorance. And that certainly cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U11	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Well, you can fully agree that our steps are not just about Estonia, but about the whole of Europe, the democratic society, and the imposition of sanctions has still been relatively toothless. There's been some tinkering, but no such very strong and strong step has been taken. Well, he's also a little concerned about keeping his own skin, and more worried about keeping his room warm, not because fewer people die in Ukraine. And here's my question. For Russia, gas and oil are undoubtedly one of the most important trade articles. Europe has promised that their imports will be restricted in the autumn. How likely are they to reach it in the coming months?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U13	It is extremely difficult, but I think that economic interests really matter here. The economic interests, taken individually, are that governments also take into account their economic interests, and there is nothing wrong with that. It is understandable when governments act. But the second thing that weighs on humanity and moral judgment is that I am convinced that there is no way to compete with them in the present situation. In my opinion, sanctions with a time perspective or delayed or with concessions and hatches are morally improbable. Take, for example, this sanction, which I think will apply on 9 April, concerning freight transport, land cargo in the Baltic States, Poland and the whole of the European Union, but above all, it has practical meaning in our region. This concerns only the [trucks] in the Russian so-called flag [under] or in the Russian register or, as I read yesterday in the sanction regulation, the trucks of the Russian operators. Obviously, this is actually a distraction from the idea of this sanction. Why? After all, it is clear that the sanction is not aimed at making Russian car companies go bankrupt, but at preventing Russia from [buying] goods and Russia from supplying goods and providing financial support to its war machine. It's about the goods. It is not morally acceptable to have vehicles from companies in the European Union register rolling there. And I am once again calling on the countries in our region that it is possible in itself to impose [national] sanctions, which are tougher. States will be able to impose tougher sanctions on all cargo except humanitarian needs. These concessions and derogations must probably be foreseen, but the non-humanised land-based cargo should be closed. Now, what do economic problems mean? The idea should be precisely that if we impose sanctions at the highest possible level, they will also have a real effect as soon as possible. We are not dealing with punitive sanctions that are normally sanctioned against the leaders of a country or a country. Our job is to impose war sanctions, which must overthrow the war machine. The perspective is, according to current analyses, that, if a full energy embargo on Russia, currently required by economic analysis, would mean a fall of 40% of Russia's gross domestic product. More than half of Russia's budget comes from energy supplies. What impact would it have on Europe? The European Central Bank estimates that, in the worst case scenario, the euro area's gross domestic product would decrease by 1.4% over the year. That's for a year. That's the question. We remember the time of the corona virus when the economy actually shrunk. If we hesitate now and think that we want to keep the economy in the European context, then if you hesitate and choose to be ashamed, then the result will be war and shame. In reality, with these sanctions, if you want to make savings in imposing sanctions now, the economic damage caused by long-term war and human suffering, the impact of this long-term war on the European Union itself will certainly be much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U14	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I am sincerely grateful that you have just been gathering information, following events with your own eyes. That is why the question relates to effective aid. We've also got advertising to support the Red Cross all the time. At the same time, there's some information that the Red Cross's helping, with the help of the Red Cross, is a problem. Did you find out on the spot which channels have become more problematic and which are more effective? You can't see it here when you read about the chair or the press. What is the most effective [channel] and where are the failures? Are there any problems with the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U16	Thank you. First of all, I want to acknowledge the State Department. I myself have been in contact with the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and anyone wishing to provide assistance, I call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to contact the Humanitarian Aid Centre. This is extremely necessary so that there are no problems at the border, either at the border of Poland or at the border of Ukraine, so that customs procedures and other formalities [swimming] can be filled in. The Foreign Office staff with hours can sort these things out and solve them. Now, the criticism of the Red Cross was very serious and weighty in Ukraine, but it was directed at the political choices of the leaders of the Red Cross. Our Red Cross was also represented at our committee meeting and confirmed that the funds that have been allocated will be directed directly to the Red Cross. The Secretary General of the Estonian Red Cross confirmed the information [after] that has been in the media that all the help given by the people of Estonia through the Red Cross reaches the Red Cross in Ukraine and has in no way been affected by the political, humanly condemning attitudes that the so-called central leadership of the Red Cross has made in its choices to support [also] Russia. As regards the question of whether the aid will arrive, I would like to stress that Ukraine has itself adopted the [relevant] laws. It is a criminal offence to engage in business in Ukraine with assistance [cargos]. I myself spoke to the district attorney general about so-called general domestic crime. In essence, six municipal crimes were registered on the last day in a region the size of Estonia. This shows that this is the social attitude, and no large-scale abuses have been identified, even in the case of aid [consignments]. There are, of course, logistical problems with aid. The logistical problem is that when I crossed the border, passenger cars [the order] was a kilometer, pedestrians were shorter, tens of meters. But the truck tail is a problem, it was 10 kilometers. [So many] are waiting at the Polish border after the Polish customs formalities. But the problem with the cars is actually going out of the European Union. This is a problem with the aides. If Europe were to succeed in putting in place a system that, figuratively speaking, in the countries of departure, these disks would be sealed off, for example, that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs or our customs would seal off to avoid these congestions, it would certainly be practical [the solution]. In border countries, logistics centres are [existent], they are in Poland, Slovakia and Romania and move this aid to a large extent. In principle, it can be said that the system under which aid comes together in the European Union's border assistance centre, from which it is transferred, really works.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U17	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In your speech, you stressed the need for food aid and, in particular, that it needs national organisation at EU level. That's my question. As the initiator of today's debate, you will certainly have extensive information on various initiatives and packages of assistance. But what initiatives and have our ambassadors in the European Parliament even started? Have they put their backs together and been united in helping Ukraine? What examples could you give here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U19	I don't have a different opinion. It seems to me that we are all in this Chamber [with one accord], there is no political front line running between the coalition and the opposition. A very strong step was, above all, the decision taken last week by the Euro Parliament, under pressure from the central and eastern European ambassadors, in which the demand for a full energy embargo was adopted by an overwhelming majority. There is a separate international network of MEPs, United for Ukraine, which also includes Mati Raidma and several other people from our Parliament, as well as members of our European Parliament. I call on all Members to join this network. It is a worldwide network of MEPs whose task is to force governments to act more and more intensively in their countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U20	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Estonian people have shown great concern for Ukrainian war refugees and the Estonian state has also set an example for many other countries by its help and its behaviour. My question concerns those volunteers who are going to or near Ukraine's war zone to carry food aid with their cars. I understand it's free will, they do it voluntarily. But [what is] your vision, aren't our own people putting their lives at risk when they go to that real war zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U22	There's a certain risk. It is certainly advisable to register at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when our citizens [go to the territory of Ukraine]. Today, I think 30 Estonian citizens are permanently in Ukraine; they have not just gone for a few days. According to our cell phone position, our number of people there is just over 100. There are also those men who are on the front of the Ukrainian troops with the Estonian cell phone. There are. There may also be some people on the front who have an Estonian cell phone in their pockets. I don't have any information, the P.D.P.D. sometimes does. But let us say that the precautions given to the local authorities must certainly be observed, guided by them. But right now, certainly, any aid in the territory of Ukraine that our volunteers provide is very appropriate. I would like to congratulate the refugee aid for this work, which they are also doing in Ukraine, say, in helping refugees who have been displaced within the country, together with the Ukrainian partner organisations. They're moving themselves. Mrs Lehtme also arrived from [just] Ukraine. The very big and serious task and problem is, of course, to organise the lives of war refugees from Ukraine in a reasonable way in Estonia, but the greatest burden of war refugees is understandable and logically in Ukraine itself, where more than 5 million people have been displaced within the country. It should be borne in mind that when large-scale warfare begins in the eastern direction, it means even more relocation within the country. The mass of people has naturally begun to move out of the way of war. And also in the north of the country, according to military logic, local authorities have received a warning that an attack on the north is possible and likely. It could happen in the near future. People are advised not to return to their homes because of this danger. So right now there's actually two directions of motion. In fact, people return, the columns for passenger cars cross the border, people come back again, including buses. Movement is two-way: people go, people return.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U23	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Urmas Reinsalu, thank you very much for your commitment to help Ukraine and, in fact, to representing Estonia in this military conflict! According to the World Bank's forecasts, Russia's GDP will fall by 11.2% this year and Ukraine's GDP by 45.1% over the year. I think that these are very eloquent numbers, which make it very clear that Europe and the whole world have not really understood the meaning of this war. We dare to make such forecasts now and understand Ukraine's point of view, but sanctions against Russia tend to sound more and more merely threats. How many of these packages do we have? I think we've reached eight today. How many more will it take to get us to influence this military conflict? Has Europe understood the meaning of this war and how about this package of sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U25	Moral [meaning] certainly, but moral judgment by works is [weak], actions are too late, and they are too few. And as they say about the rules of the world aviation organisation that they are written with the blood of the victims, in fact, in order for these [sanctions] to come into a new package, there must be new crimes against humanity and new horrors. Then [can] exert moral pressure to impose new sanctions. And this number is very correct. Standard & Poor's pointed out, well before the last package, that in Russia [there is a drop] of 10% while Ukraine's GDP falls by half in size. Russia has sanctions and, let's say, a general impact of war of 10% of GDP. If we impose a general energy sanction, Russia's GDP would fall in the same order as Ukraine's. Those are the scales.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U26	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U27	Thank you very much, manager. Good Urmas, thank you for your presentation first! It was a very good report. Like you, all national canned foods are certainly driven by concern about what we see there in Ukraine. And, of course, we are all delighted by every plane that has been shot down, the tank that has been destroyed, because it reduces the pressure on our country and the threat to our country. We know that. However, there are some sad things that come with this pleasure. Well, as Alar Laneman has already pointed out, it is extremely sad when our country adopts drafts, as was the draft 241 yesterday, with which we recognise the civil war that is taking place in Ukraine. I really hope the president is straight back and doesn't announce it. But my question is borne out of this concern that, as you know, despite [many] wishes, we still have the European Union and the great powers of Europe very strongly support this aggression. After all, France, Germany, Austria, and all those who buy energy from Russia give EUR 1 billion every day to the military fund. That'll be 250 billion by the end of the year with an axe. And like you said, we need to knock this war machine over, but that's not how we're gonna knock it over. What is your real vision of how this can really be hindered?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U28	Thank you. That's the question of where we're threatened, let's say, a moral trap. We rightly point to the question of whether Europe's great powers are prepared to impose a sanction on energy carriers [in the eye], which is now the most effective weapon, leaving aside military assistance and political support. In the current situation, these transfers have, in fact, stopped or stopped buying in April, so to speak, the prices of futures have been made on a commercial basis, and the gas price will be half the price of the autumn. But the Finnish side is still, the Finnish pipe is the logic of Russian gas. And we have this debate, including the question of companies, whether Russian gas should be raised in reserves for the next season in May and June. The President of Ukraine told us that a good one, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, that you have blocked Russian gas. But we must actually redeem this bill and say first that the Russian gas [screen] is closed as an immediate war sanction. Secondly, we must, of course, demand this from the whole of Europe. Economic considerations can never justify these sanctions because they are economically burdensome for countries. So our weapon must be a moral argument. Last week, Riina Sikkut and I had a conversation about genocide. I think that in order to exert moral pressure, the Estonian Parliament must be the first parliament in Europe to define this war as a genocide, as a genocide crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U29	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U30	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It is from this last idea that Estonia must be one of the leaders, at least in the corridor of European organisations, that my question is pushing. How can we ensure that, within the European Union, or also in the case of those countries that are seeking membership of the European Union, they join this huge block of sanctions and try to turn the screws around here? How would our club stay? There is a clear distinction between the Baltic States, Russia's neighbours, but the more we go towards Central Europe, towards southern Europe, the more unity is crumbled. How can you ensure that you are a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, yet this unity is precisely at the level of the Heads of State?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U31	Thank you. Here's two slices. One slice is that the official candidate countries or, let us say, the countries that hope for the perspective of the European Union, who have been powerless in shaping this common position, either for ideological and political reasons or fear, must be put under pressure. I am sorry, but Serbia's behaviour is completely unacceptable and this signal must be sent by the European countries, by the European Union itself, that it will have fatal and intrinsic consequences for countries that either do not dare to choose sides or move forward. In a war situation, it is not possible to talk round, there must be force, there must also be force for these countries. Actually, there's only two sides to be. And those countries over which we have economic power must be pressured to be on the right side unconditionally. Ensuring the unity of European countries. It is understandable that the further away from the Russian border, the less the immediate sense of the crisis is for societies and also for the leaders of the country. The message can be delivered first and foremost by emphasising the perspective of moral responsibility, and it is precisely for the peoples, the representatives of the people. The general logic of government politicians in democracy is that they must express the attitudes of their people and also of Parliament. Therefore, the decision of the President of Ukraine to address his moral message to the parliaments, in fact the nations, is very right, and he has openly stated who has done or failed to do what. Excuse me, but Germany is saying or arguing that it also needs to maintain reserves for its military defence capabilities and therefore it is not possible to supply additional weapons. But I have a question: who is Germany going to fight? Anybody headed west? I'm sorry! It's a rhetorical question, of course, but this is the war. Only the difference is we don't die, the Ukrainians die.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U32	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U33	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you, Urmas, for the work you do on this subject. Since you are quite familiar with this, I ask you whether there has been any feedback or expectation in these meetings and conversations for Estonia about how to behave in a situation where the President of Ukraine has announced the mobilisation of men aged 18 to 60 with some deadline? Have we also received any appeal to the Estonian state or guidance as to how we should deal with healthy people who are subject to mobilization? Should we still motivate them to go defend their homeland? Have there been any such discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U34	Yes, it has been. I actually asked the representatives of the Ukrainian State the last time. Ukraine is currently criminalising the call for mobilisation for non-compliance. But Ukraine makes a distinction between people on its territory and people in third countries. In the case of Ukrainian reservations in third countries, this is a moral issue. It's a moral issue, and a lot of men have returned. Estonia's view here is more rigid in criminal law; we do not know such a territorial distinction. We imagine that when the war begins between Estonia and Russia, we actually expect all Estonian men in Finland to return. And the Finnish state will undoubtedly work together to do this, at least we would like it, I imagine that these people would return. It is certainly very important here that I am not technically informed about this information exchange. I say this: if Ukraine should have the need to actually get the reserves back to its home country, then the Estonian state could cooperate in channelling the reserves to Ukraine. Certainly the Estonian state should be fully prepared for this cooperation in case this need arises in Ukraine. There was a third mobilisation this weekend. In the past, they've taken reserve units, these people have been in reserve, this third was a so-called universal civil mobilization. Those who have received military [training] at the university are also subject to mobilization. It can therefore be said that the need for a vital force in Ukraine is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U35	Mr Reinsalu, the story now is that there are 30 seconds left and the question and the answer cannot be heard. So thank you for your presentation. And now we can move on. I have the honour to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U36	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear friends of Ukraine! Honourable listeners! Looking back, I can tell you that I didn't think, walking peacefully in Kiev on 23 February, that this would be the last peaceful evening in this beautiful city for a long time. Russia's full-scale war against Ukraine, which began during the early morning hours of the Republic of Estonia's birthday, has touched us all. Russia has committed serious violations of international law and has broken all its commitments. He has also crossed all the red lines, starting with the greatest military conflict in Europe since World War II. For Estonia, supporting Ukraine was part of our foreign and domestic policy even before the massive invasion of Russian troops. We have actively supported the territorial integrity of Ukraine and European reforms, and we have also paid attention to the violation of international law relating to Ukraine as a member of the UN Security Council. We provided defence armed assistance, actively interacted with partners to ensure that the basic principles of the European security architecture were maintained. Without exaggeration, I can say that most Estonian diplomats dealt with Ukraine every day for months before Russia's great invasion. The tensions accumulated and extensive intelligence, much of which was also made public, indicated that we must be prepared for the worst. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched active foreign policy activities in Russia during the first weeks of the Russian aggression, the first hours. Estonia has acted here in three main foreign policy directions. Firstly, we support Ukraine in all appropriate ways. Secondly, we have condemned Russia's aggression at all possible levels and dealt with a comprehensive increase in the cost of war for Russia. Thirdly, together with NATO allies, we have fully strengthened our own security. Our task is to help put an end to aggression and restore Europe's security. Today's debate has been convened to address Ukraine's support. I thank the Riigikogu for its initiative. This is important for Ukraine, the people of Ukraine and the people of Estonia and Estonia. Our people have helped Ukrainians cope with this very difficult time with an exceptionally open heart. The humanitarian crisis unfolding in Ukraine, which is the biggest and most dangerous since World War II, calls for urgent action by the international community. Today, over 12 million people are in need of humanitarian aid in Ukraine and, unfortunately, the humanitarian crisis is getting worse as military action continues. In just five weeks, the number of people in need of humanitarian aid in Ukraine has grown almost as high as in Syria in ten years. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has been at the forefront of supporting Ukraine in the world. Our total contribution to military and humanitarian aid is now EUR 235 million. In addition, given the ratio of the Estonian population, Ukrainian war refugees have been admitted to the fourth place among European countries. Today, at least one in three people in Estonia have made a donation in support of Ukraine, which already makes more than 13 million euros in total for various donations. However, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Estonia provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine even before Russia's last military aggression on 24 February. We have supported several Estonian NGOs' relief projects in Eastern Ukraine since 2014. Thanks to the long-term implementation of humanitarian aid projects in eastern Ukraine, Estonia's relief organisations were able to react immediately when the situation escalated and help those in need in Ukraine. In January 2022, we increased the budget for a number of long-term humanitarian aid projects in the eastern part of Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs started further aiding Ukraine just a few hours after the start of the Russian massive military attack, when we made financial allocations for the work of international humanitarian organisations. In the context of the humanitarian crisis and due to Ukraine's exponentially increased humanitarian needs, we have established the Humanitarian Staff of Ukraine in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The headquarters, which has been operating for more than a month, has helped coordinate several large relief shipments in cooperation with Estonian state agencies, companies and NGOs to respond to Ukrainian requests for assistance in the area of food aid, temporary shelter and health care. It has also helped other donors in transport and logistics matters. Good listeners! Russia deliberately kills and injures innocent people. Those who are forced to flee from their homes from violence must cope without shelter, water, food, and other necessities of life. Unfortunately, the humanitarian needs of people who have been suffering from war atrocities for over a month are increasing and will remain this way for a long time. Ukraine needs our long-term support, so the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, committed to helping Ukraine, will continue to work so that the necessary assistance can reach the people of Ukraine. The humanitarian aid provided by Estonia focuses on the three areas already mentioned. These are food aid, health care and temporary shelter. Dear Riigikogu! The main needs of Ukraine are food aid. Ukraine needs food aid of 15 tonnes a day. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation has carried out a rapid needs assessment in 19 Ukraine regions. They estimate that 40 to 45% of Ukrainians will need food aid in the next three months. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has organised food aid worth EUR 250000. Together with private donors, Estonia has contributed more than 5 million euros to food aid. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Estonian Food Bank, has sent infant food, preserved meat, soups and other prepared foods to Ukraine. It is a pleasure to note that the food aid sent by Estonia has reached several regions of Ukraine, including the very difficult cities of Kharkov, as well as Lviv, Luhansk, Donetsk, Kiev and Chernihiv, as well as Taga-Karapathy and [for others]. Hundreds of basic food has been sent today. Two loads of Estonian potatoes, canned fish, oatmeal and baby food arrived in Chernihiv on the weekend, and the next shipment of food aid to Lviv and Chernihiv is immediately under preparation. Another important area to which Estonia contributes under humanitarian aid is health care. Estonia's contribution is already more than 4 million euros in cooperation with the private sector. In the course of Russia's military aggression, nine hospitals in Ukraine have been completely destroyed and 135 hospitals have been damaged. Therefore, patients are consistently transferred to Western Ukraine, where hospitals are overloaded. The World Health Organization has reported more than 100 attacks on hospitals and ambulances. People have limited access to medicines and healthcare. The treatment of chronic diseases has practically stopped. About half of the pharmacies are closed, many health professionals have escaped from home or are unable to work. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is sending medical assistance worth more than EUR 150,000, such as wound wipers and first aid bags. In cooperation with Chemi-Pharm and the National Defence Investment Centre, we sent 13000 litres of necessary disinfectant to the Lviv Regional Hospital for cleaning hands, surfaces and equipment for both hospitals and personal use. A number of cargoes are being prepared for the delivery of various first aid medical supplies to Ukraine. In addition, medical teams will be deployed and additional medical equipment and supplies will be sent to Ukraine. We can send medicines on a limited scale, because we need to take into account the increase in supply chains resulting from the war and, above all, to cover the needs of our country. When sending medical devices, we must also ensure that we do not jeopardise Estonia's own continuity of action. The Health Board has proposed the medical evacuation of patients with war trauma requiring hospitalisation and follow-up treatment from the Ukrainian border to Estonia. According to this, Estonia is ready to receive 53 patients. The European Union and NATO countries are working closely in the medical field to establish the necessary coordination mechanism for patient evacuation and treatment. There are procedures at EU level for cooperation and use of relevant information systems in the field of health and public protection. After all, requests for assistance and patient data must move through different systems and at the same time meet data protection requirements. NATO coordination is in the process of designating a leading state among the Member States, led by which a coordination centre and associated evacuation points could be set up. The Humanitarian Staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine will monitor and contribute to developments on both lines of action in coordination with the Permanent Representation of NATO, the Health Board and other relevant actors. The common interest of the European Union and NATO is to establish an effective coordination system as soon as possible. As a result of the war, the number of patients has increased dramatically, while many hospitals and health centres have been destroyed. And as long as we see that military action in Ukraine continues and, unfortunately, can also intensify in the near future, of course, the burden in this area will increase. The third important area of assistance is a temporary shelter. The first humanitarian aid shipment sent to Ukraine from Estonia arrived after the war broke out on 27 February. This included the installation equipment for the logistics centre of the Rescue Board: six tents, 200 sleeping bags, 200 outdoor beds, four diesel generators and six tent heating systems. I remember that at the crisis meetings that weekend we were seriously concerned about whether this shipment would also succeed in getting to Ukraine. It was not self-evident that the aid had arrived at the time. In March, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent over 5,000 blankets, pillows and mattresses to Ukraine. Today, however, temporary asylum equipment is already lacking throughout Europe. Belgium, the Czech Republic and Poland have already requested such equipment through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism. The European Union has begun to create the capacity to provide temporary asylum in order to reduce the heavy burden on Member States to deal with different crises. It also covers the provision of water and electricity. The lack of clean drinking water is getting worse in Ukraine. Water supply is [hard to provide]. There are many different solutions in the field of water treatment, which are used in times of crisis through the population protection mechanism, but unfortunately it is not possible to deploy such equipment at the moment because of military activities. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Energy, 1 million people have no electricity and 6 million people have limited access to clean water. Last week, with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 17 generators for humanitarian headquarters and mass bomb shelters in hospitals in Luhansk, Donetsk and Kharkiv Oblast, as well as a shipment of IT equipment and generators, with which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded to the request of the Ministry of Digital Affairs of Ukraine. In addition, Ukraine needs immediate assistance to alleviate the fuel shortage. Without sufficient fuel in the agricultural sector, Ukraine may face a catastrophic food shortage in the next winter, which in turn will have an impact on global security and food prices. In Estonia, the Centre for Defence Investments prepares a large-scale supply of 5 million euros of fuel, funded by the European Commission. With this money you can buy 4 million litres of petrol and diesel, but such quantities cannot be obtained from Estonia. The Centre therefore cooperates with the Polish Strategic Reserve Agency, through which the necessary quantity is found on the Polish market. With the current state of affairs, the fuel shipment should reach Ukraine in April. Honourable Riigikogu! Russia's widespread military aggression in Europe in 2022, coupled with an unprecedented humanitarian crisis affecting the whole world economy and political priorities, has been a test of the responsiveness of the European Union and our partners. Many Member States have stated that the European Union was not really prepared for such a crisis. In this exceptional situation, the European Union's mechanism for protecting the population has been set in motion on an unprecedented scale and, once again, has proven itself to be an operational source of European solidarity. The on-going operation is the largest and logistically one of the most complex in the history of the population protection mechanism, but it works successfully, simultaneously responding to other crises in the world. All 27 Member States of the European Union and Norway and Turkey have provided assistance to Ukraine through this mechanism. Logistics centres have been set up in Poland, Romania and Slovakia through the Public Protection Mechanism, and almost 12000 tonnes of humanitarian aid has been sent to Ukraine through the Polish Logistics Centre. A total of 107000 tonnes of humanitarian aid has been sent to Ukraine by international organisations. This includes the contribution of both the European Union and the UN. The headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the heart of the humanitarian aid provided by Estonia, which coordinates activities in two directions: nationally with other state institutions, non-profit organisations and the private sector, and at international level, together with Ukrainians, the European Union Crisis Centre, the World Health Organisation's Directorate-General for Population Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations and NATO, in order to ensure maximum support for Ukraine in line with good humanitarian practice. The Estonian embassy in Kiev, whose staff are located in Poland, Kiev and Tallinn today, also plays an active role in coordinating Estonian humanitarian aid on the Polish-Ukraine border, facilitating the logistics of humanitarian aid shipments and, of course, in communicating with the Ukrainian authorities. Honourable Riigikogu! We must also take into account regional aid needs. The war in Ukraine has put Moldova, for example, in a fragile situation. Today Moldova is facing a difficult situation in which it is facing a complex crisis: the COVID pandemic, security of energy supply, security and an exceptionally large number of refugees. No country can handle this burden alone. Moldova, with a population of 2.6 million, is the most vulnerable country, which at the same time offers and needs help because Moldova has the largest number of war refugees per capita. The more we can support Ukrainian refugees in Moldova, the more likely it will be that Ukrainian war refugees will be able to stay closer to their home, because their desire is mostly to return to their homes as soon as possible when military action subsides. Good listeners! The Estonian civil society and private initiatives have played an extraordinary role in helping Ukraine. Sincerely, it is a pleasure to welcome NGO Slava Ukrainian in this hall today, who has been one of the most active new Ukrainian aiders. In addition, I would also like to thank NGO Mondo and Estonian Refugee Aid and [to recognise] the initiative "For Ukraine!" which has given so many of us the opportunity to donate for Ukraine. Also [I recognise] the Estonian Food Bank, Salvation League, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and many others who have contributed to these donations with their spare time and resources. Thanks, everybody! Today's support circle in Ukraine is great, but we need to start making plans for the reconstruction of Ukraine already. Estonia has provided significant assistance in support of Ukraine. Unfortunately, it can be predicted that the humanitarian needs of Ukraine will be long-term and will increase to the longer the duration of military action. In 2015, Estonia set an ambitious target to increase its total contribution to development cooperation and humanitarian aid to 0.33% of gross domestic product by 2030. This requires an increase in the contribution of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid to the state budget, in which you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, have an important role to play. At the European Council meeting, Prime Minister Kallas proposed the idea of creating an international escrow account to which the amount to be collected would later be devoted to the reconstruction of Ukraine. Estonia cannot implement this idea alone. At the moment, there is active diplomatic work to gather support for this idea. On 7 March, the issue of assisting Ukraine was added to the agenda of the informal meeting of EU development ministers. There we called on the Commission to give its full support to Ukraine. In doing so, we will use the European Union's neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, Global Europe, rapid response measures and the crisis reserve. We also stressed that attention should also be paid to Moldova and to all the countries of the Eastern Partnership region. Today, we know that the Commission has launched various support packages for Ukraine at a significant speed and has also applied the basis of the aforementioned instrument, which will also allow support for war refugees outside Ukraine. At the meeting of the EU's Development Directors on 6 April, we stressed the importance of innovative cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the European team's approach to the reconstruction of Ukraine. We need to think today about how we can contribute to the reconstruction of Ukraine, while qualifying to participate in European Union procurement. According to the European Commission, the green and digital revolution is certainly at the heart of the reconstruction process. Team Europe's partnership portal is an innovative solution developed by the Estonian private sector, and we will hand it over to the European Commission on 10 May. The portal combines public and private sector offers from different countries and the needs of partner countries, thereby ensuring better assistance, coordination and a common visibility of the European Union as a whole. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ukraine is a free and independent country with the right to choose its own future. Ukraine's future is not separate from the future of Europe. In this way, we must take seriously the Ukrainians' desire to grow into a democratic rule of law and become a member of the European Union. On this basis, we will continue to support Ukraine, both politically, economically and with development aid, as well as their pursuit towards the European Union. Long live Estonia! Long live Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U37	Good Minister, you have a number of questions for members of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U38	Yes, good manager! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, There'd be a lot of questions. We have spoken here in the [State] Budget Control [Various] Committee with representatives of the Ukrainian Government about this aid and the request to coordinate the assistance of the countries of the European Union. I'm talking about fuel aid and food aid right now. As far as I know, 200,000 tonnes of diesel per month and 15,000 tonnes of food per day are needed. But, Minister, I heard from you that it was only 15 grand. My question is who is wrong here: is the Head of Coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, or as your Foreign Minister, when you talk about 15 grand a day, but he talked about 15,000 tonnes a day?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U39	Thank you for that question. If I was wrong with the number, I'm sorry, but 15,000 grand is the need, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U40	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would, of course, first of all like to make a comment on the narrative that you have brought back and which is very characteristic of the liberal government. The war in Europe did not start in 2022, but still in 2014, when Ukrainian Crimea was analyzed and large-scale areas of the Donbass, Luhansk and Donetsk Oblast were taken under strong control. That's a note on that. But the question now is that, as we know, the most serious diplomatic effort a country can make against another country is the creation of diplomatic isolation, i.e. the interruption of political relations. It's the most powerful thing you can do. Ukraine has done so on 24 February. On February 25th, I think Micronesia did. There are countries that have broken off diplomatic relations with Russia by this route. As far as I know, even Lithuania did so on April 4. The question now is how many European countries have interrupted diplomatic relations with Russia and whether Estonia is planning it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U42	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu for this question and also for the comment. The war in Europe began loyally in 2014. Or we could also say that 2008 when Russia attacked Georgia. For all these countries, Estonia has been actively supporting the territorial integrity of these countries and condemning this military activity since these attacks have taken place by Russia against the territorial integrity of these countries. As regards diplomatic relations with Russia, Estonia has currently restricted diplomatic relations with Russia. Estonia has closed down consular offices in Estonia, one in Narva and the other in Tartu. We have also sent out several Russian diplomats whose actions did not correspond to diplomatic practice. This is what we're going to do right now. Russia is a neighbouring country of Estonia and, therefore, we have not considered it reasonable to completely break up diplomatic relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U43	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which, with 57 Member States, is the largest regional organisation for security cooperation in our region. Ironically, its Member State is also the Aggressor State of Russia. Is and [if so] how can an Estonian or a group of states initiate the expulsion of an aggressor state from an organisation that aims to ensure peace and cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U45	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. In Estonia's view, it is certainly very important that Russia continues to be isolated in the international landscape, so that Russia cannot participate in political discussions. Russia has violated international law. Russia has violated the fundamental principles of the European security architecture, the same basic principles as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or OSCE. So it is certainly not appropriate in Estonia's view that Russia continues to be a member of this organisation and sits at the table there. Unfortunately, the organisation's procedures do not allow direct expulsion. We have analysed these procedures seriously, because we have examples of history. Serbia, for example, was then voted out of the organisation. A consensus minus one is needed for this procedure. Today, we do not consider this possible because Russia supports several countries, one of which is Belarus. In accordance with the procedure of the Reply, I note that there must of course also be sanctions and other pressures in Estonia's view aimed at ending the war against Russia, because some attacks on Ukraine are being carried out on the territory of Belarus. But when we come back to the OSCE, of course, we will continue to raise this issue with countries of the same kind. Today, the Polish organisation is chaired and we are looking for a solution to exclude Russia from the work of this organisation, just as Russia was excluded from the work of the Council of Europe and similarly, as Russia was excluded from the Human Rights Council last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U46	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, When does the government prohibit the import of Russian gas into Estonia? The current statements are a rhetorical statement with no legal force. What is the date when we hit the ground and say that Estonia no longer consumes Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U48	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. The sanctioning of the energy sector is undoubtedly a specific sanction which would have a very strong impact on the Russian economy and a clear message. It is certainly important here to bear in mind that this sanction is influential in nature when it comes to all the Member States of the European Union. And in this direction, Estonia has also worked with countries of the same kind. I do not have a specific date to tell you, but in Estonia's view, this would be a very important step towards sanctioning energy carriers from Russia in order to prevent the money from reaching Russia. However, we also know that for many countries this is a sensitive issue. Therefore, Estonia has also proposed a softer alternative, i.e. an alternative: part of the money paid for energy or energy would be placed in a so-called escrow account and the money gathered there would later be built up in Ukraine. A similar mechanism has been used, for example, in the case of the war in Iraq, also in the case of Afghanistan, to ensure that the responsibility for these war crimes, broken civil infrastructure, goes to the country that has caused these damage. This escrow account would also allow this. This is one of the versions currently being discussed in the framework of the sanction mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U49	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U50	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is absolutely incredible that you, too, at the beginning of your presentation, used the term'military conflict in Europe'. We know that Russia is having a full-scale brutal war in one European country, Ukraine, where, in addition to military action, women and children are being raped, burned, kidnapped and tortured. Yesterday, the Riigikogu adopted a disgraceful and unconstitutional draft Aliens Act 241 at the expense of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. It is a disgrace because it is a document that has been written in the law at the level of the Riigikogu that Russia's aggression against the state and people of Ukraine is merely a military conflict in Ukraine. Is that your government's position? I just have to ask you this, because for the second time, very high-level terms are not accurate. Russia and the Kremlin still use this legal definition as their very well-functioning propaganda technique. Why are you still doing this? Are you going to leave the doors open for the Kremlin?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U51	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Of course we are talking about military aggression, military innovation, but here it is true that there would be different synonyms in the text, including 'wide-ground military conflict'. If we mean purely legal terminology, we are still talking about military aggression, with which the basic Charter of the United Nations has been violated. It can also be called a military invasion in which Russia, with its armed forces, has gone on its own initiative and in violation of international law to Ukraine and occupied areas there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U52	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U53	Thank you, Minister. And strength in your work! A while ago, in this Chamber, we talked about the need to provide weapons assistance, and we talked about the diplomatic problem of why it could not be given. There were issues related to the Germans. Today we are talking about food aid being a problem. I don't understand where the problem really lies. Why don't you open it up a little bit? Is this problem logistical, is it a supply chain problem, a problem of coordination between the European Union? Because, indeed, I myself was in Lviv on 9 March, and just as the governor stressed this problem, this growing need for food aid. But actually, today, we're still making it look like a problem, not that we can handle this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U54	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. I think this problem is multi-participant. On the one hand, it has been possible to provide food aid to the people, women and children at the Ukrainian war, and it has reached them at the heart of the war. Of course, it is the need to ensure the safety of donors that makes it difficult to provide this assistance and, in particular, to reach the most difficult war zones. Only last week, two partners of NGO Mondo on the ground were killed when the aid was given. These are the reasons why help may not always reach those in need at the most appropriate time. There have also, of course, been logistical difficulties, but they should be overcome by today. These logistics centres, which are built on three countries, in Slovakia, Romania and Poland, should ensure that aid reaches those in need through them. It is currently organised in such a way that part of the aid consignments that can be transported directly to Ukraine will be taken to Ukraine. If it is not possible to take them directly to Ukraine, they will be moved to intermediate warehouses where they will be picked up from Ukraine. So there are a lot of so-called Thailor-made solutions here to make sure there are no logistical obstacles anywhere to getting help to people. But, of course, if we see new broken cities, new bombed places, then surely there may be obstacles in these areas to getting help there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U55	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Your review also included figures on donations that have been transferred and supported by Estonian people both locally and in Ukraine. Does this review also reflect the [grants] of local authorities? I mean, direct contacts. For example, the city of Viljandi has Ternopi's town of friendship and partner city, to which Viljandi has directly paid EUR 35000 under the City Government measure. But the citizens of Viljandi have also supported this municipality very much and borne the grant money directly. It's a good thing you explained a little about the Red Cross, because those who donate want this help to get where it's needed, and it gets to the right place. Do you have money in this account that has been directed directly by municipalities? In fact, the city of Ternopil, for example, is in a very difficult situation because people are moving inland because there is no military activity there. There's a lot of people out there who need help. Thank you and, of course, the strength both for you and for diplomats in this difficult crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U57	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, I take this opportunity to recognise all Estonian people and local governments, entrepreneurs, everyone who has donated to help Ukraine. I owe you a specific answer now, and I will specify whether we have included donations from all the municipalities. I believe that we have been able to calculate this number on a broad scale, but I will certainly specify and [I will let you know].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U58	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U59	Thank you. Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, I also congratulate you and your colleagues for their work in the current crisis. You also mentioned here the figures of the amount of global aid in tonnes and the amount of Estonia's aid in these specific one-off shipments. But that's the problem. We'll take the food aid, it'll have to be like a permanent one. If we take this 10,000 tons per capita, then we should go 20 tons of preserved food a day from Estonia. Actually, it's nothing dramatic, it's essentially two truckloads. Would you, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, also send this letter by the Commission, and would you be prepared to analyse with your colleagues, assessing other foreign ministers and at European level, to propose that there be a food reserve in Ukraine to which all countries would immediately contribute? It cannot be mandatory, but it would be such an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U60	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Of course, it is important in our view to help the people of Ukraine. As I said before, 40% of Ukraine's population will probably need food aid in the next three months, and we must certainly think about how this food aid will get to them. We will certainly consider this proposal and, at the next meeting in the area of development aid, we will also be able to discuss how the European Union can ensure that a specific amount of food aid reaches the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U61	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Russia's aggression against the Ukrainian state and people is brutally violating international law. The world receives daily information about terrible crimes against humanity against the Ukrainian people, including women and small children. It forces us to ask what must happen and how long it will take for international law to become practically operational, and this unprecedented evil to end and be punished, a real punishment. There's no Deus ex machina here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U63	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I very much agree with you that the pictures we see of this warfare actually make us powerless. We have not been able to stop the Russian war machine, even though it has been condemned by the international community. More than 141 countries in the world have called it aggression. The international court has said that Russia should withdraw its troops. The International Criminal Court has begun the investigation of war crimes. All these steps have not deterred Russia in any way. On the contrary, we hear speculation that even worse war crimes and pictures of them will soon stand before our eyes. Unfortunately, there are many things that the international community does afterwards. One of the important activities is, of course, to ensure justice for those who have died, who have been victims of war crimes, either raped or tortured. It was yesterday that the Foreign Ministers of the European Union also met with the Prosecutor General of the International Criminal Court to ask what specific assistance the Attorney General needs in order for war crimes to be investigated immediately. Member States have offered donations. Estonia has also proposed experts to participate in this study group. In addition, of course, several countries, including Estonia, have also started research on the ground on the basis of universal jurisdiction. For example, we have questioned refugees. If they have information about war crimes, it has been proven and recorded that all these data will be brought to justice, and those who are guilty of war crimes will also be brought to justice. This is, of course, something the international community is working on, because this unjustified war has not ended, but those who started this war and are responsible for war crimes must be held accountable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U64	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Very honored Minister of Foreign Affairs! I wish you strength in this very grateful work, so that we can still see real results in this crazy situation and that real help can reach people. However, I do need to ask [about] that you also use such very soft and hilly expressions as 'conflict in Europe'. Action can only succeed if there are clear goals when these clear goals are seen from the clarity of our words and the accuracy of our definitions. There are many of these definitions, starting with Clausewitz or Sun Zi or Cambridge English Dictionary. Why the blurring of definitions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U66	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I have also answered this question here to your colleague that, of course, this is a large-scale war, Russia's aggression and an invasion of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U67	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U68	Thank you, honored speaker, for the fine presentation I listened to in my office. Since I'm having a big talk all the time, I just went to my office. But my question would be as follows. We all know that Ukraine's land has been disintegrated, villages have been burned, people have been killed and so on. And after 24 February 2022, I now mention this date, so that no one can say anything again, the Western world has imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation and the money has been put away, at some point it was $620 billion. These sanctions have, like, come again and again, and I believe that these amounts are now much higher. But have you had a discussion with European or US diplomats about whether Ukraine will receive this money to rebuild the land that has been broken up? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I very much hope that this money will not be returned to the Russian Federation in its own time, perhaps in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U69	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, we must help Ukraine to look to the future as well. This devastated land must be built up. And for my part, I have proposed to my European colleagues that the assets of Russia, which are currently frozen, be used for this purpose in Europe. As I said before, our Prime Minister has proposed to European partners that part of the gas payments be frozen and also directed towards Ukraine's reconstruction. Such proposals and ideas are being discussed in the European Union and, of course, also in the wider international community, in co-ordinate countries. It is clear that Russia must take responsibility for the reconstruction of this broken infrastructure, civil infrastructure, homes, hospitals, schools, roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U70	Mr. Ernits, is there a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U71	Yes, Mr. Pevkur, it is. I hear Mr Rajasalu is hearing voices. Explain, what should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U72	Not asking such stupid questions. And I shouldn't answer them. Nobody hears voices here. We are in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, asking questions from the rapporteur, in this case the Foreign Minister. We have a very serious issue, we have a question of helping Ukraine, and I do not think that such sarcastic remarks are appropriate in any way. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U73	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. One of the reasons why the city of Mariupoli has suffered so badly in air strikes is that the Azov regiment, defending it, did not have modern anti-aircraft weapons at the beginning of the war. And they were absent because the US Congress in 2018 adopted a decision prohibiting Azov from supplying modern Western weapons. This decision was taken on the basis of purely arguments and wording used by Russian propaganda, where Azov is called 'right-wing extremists' and'neo-Nazis'. What does Estonia, together with other Eastern European countries, intend to do at international level in order to avoid such very regrettable cases in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U74	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. If I understand your question correctly, now is the problem of what to do with Russia's narrative that there are Nazis in neighbouring countries that Russia must come to destroy. Estonia has stood against this narrative in international organisations for a long time. Of course, it was absolutely regrettable and unacceptable to see Russia start a full-scale war in Europe on the basis of this narrative. Russia is certainly more alone today with this narrative or with a few of its close allies, such as Belarus. The rest of the world realizes it was an excuse, it was a lie. And we have, of course, seen a great deal of this lie on the part of Russia. Here, it is certainly very important to talk more broadly about spreading false and misleading information, in which Russia has unfortunately been very effective not only in America but also throughout Europe. I very much hope that the numerous sanctions that have been in place since the start of the current large-scale aggression, which have stopped Russian media activities in European countries such as Russia Today and Sputnik, will also contribute, among other things, to slowing down the dissemination of this misinformation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U75	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U76	Thank you for the floor. Minister, indeed, the strength to work for you! My question is very specifically about the alleged use of yesterday's chemical weapon. What do we know for now? And can you describe what's going to happen now? Are there any further measures to be taken, sanctions to be imposed? Have you and your colleagues talked about this yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U77	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this very worrying news spread this morning. The first thing, of course, is to obtain additional information on which it is based and whether it is true. But what's there to deny, information that Russia can use chemical or bioweapons has moved. But more information needs to be gathered about a particular case. As far as the general picture is concerned, it is clear that nothing is sacred for Russia, no international agreement or law. There are also no choice of ways to kill civilians. This cruelty that we have had to see these weeks, of course, puts moral responsibility on all people and countries to stand up to this war, to pressure Russia to end the war. This, of course, is being dealt with. Each of the next atrocities, of course, increases the will in all countries to pressure Russia to end this war. But how exactly to proceed with the specific question will be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U78	And now, quick question and answer, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The manager asked me to be real quick. Now I'm about to hit a dead end. But here's the question. Those Estonian volunteers who are going to help Ukrainians on Ukrainian territory, what is your recommendation? Is it safe or what would you tell them? They still don't put their lives on the line? What do you think it's worth going there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U80	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. My first recommendation to the citizens of Estonia is, of course, not to go to the war zone. However, if, for one reason or another, a person considers it necessary to go to Ukraine, then surely register on the "Trip Smart" page so that we can inform the person about the changes. And in close proximity to the war zone, it is, of course, very important to observe the news and the situation on the ground. However, I would rather advise people not to go to a war zone, unless a person has a particular need or training. Because war is war, and it is clear that it is not possible to save human life in one way or another, or to go to the aid of people by the state. However, Ukraine is a large country and we have now seen that Russian troops have moved towards the east. Of course, it is not yet entirely possible to predict what this war is going to be like, but it is certainly more peaceful on the West side now, and if it is possible to support aid there, then the risk to life should be less.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U81	Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, now the time has run out for both presentation and questions-answers. Thank you very much. We can move on to the next presentation by Johanna-Maria Lehtme, CEO of NGO Slava Ukraine. Please, you are welcome to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U82	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before I begin, I have a question. We are discussing a matter of national importance. I flew back from Ukraine last night to give this speech and the hall is empty. I know one of your associates in the Riigikogu has a birthday. I sincerely hope you don't eat cake in your office right now. Since most of you don't have the slightest idea who I am, I'll start completely from the beginning. My name is Johanna-Maria Lehtme, I am the mother of the three-year-old Sume and I am the husband of a Ukrainian citizen and I am the CEO of NGO Slava Ukrainian. My home is located here in the city centre of Tallinn, my home is located in Kiev on Hrešchabüru street opposite the mayor's house. On February 24, I received a phone call from my husband: war began, we run. That was the end of the comm. The next call was on February 27th, and the question to me was Johanna, can you find me an ambulance? I didn't even get the question we need it for, but I called the person we need, and three hours later, the first joint project of NGO Slava Ukrainian and Rotarians, an ambulance car, was bought thanks to the Tallinn Old Town Rotary Club and the Toompea Chevron of the Defence League. I can safely say that this ambulance saved not only my life but also the lives of many Ukrainian citizens. Today we have already sent out 41 ambulances, which is the speed at which NGO Slava will operate in Ukraine. Our work is actually very simple. We are being sent precise information about what they need from Ukrainian hospitals or military medicine battalions. We get the list, we get the quantities. We collect these things, we put them on the car, and this aid goes directly to the address where it was ordered. If we're being asked for tourniquets, air-strings, we don't send them speed noodles. We don't throw money off the plane, we give concrete help. We have now focused, like everyone else, our focus on the east. But I'd like to look at my phone for a moment and just say that if you think it's safe to go west, you're not. Six minutes ago: Rear Carpathia, Shadow; 12 minutes ago: Ternopil in Ternopil Oblast, Volyn Oblast, Lviv in Lviv Oblast, Ivano-Frankivsk in Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast, Rivne in Rivne Oblast, Kiev in Kiev Oblast: Shadow. The war is not just in the east, the war is in Ukraine. We can say that we have provided very effective assistance, but we could not have done this without partners. I can say that with the help of the Estonian Rotary Club, we have collected over 600000 euros. Our partners have paid over EUR 281000. The companies have issued goods amounting to EUR 148000. Slava Ukraine itself has received donations of EUR 789215 from the Estonian people and companies. This amounts to approximately EUR 1.9 million. Slava Ukraine was founded as an NGO on 7 March. If we succeed in our project, the new project, where we are allowed to buy 10000 new tourniquets, then after that our budget will be EUR 2.1 million. We've been helped by partners. We have involved entrepreneurs from Estonia, these are Bolt, Krimelte, Xolo, Merko Ehitus, G4S, Nordecon Concrete, Hansabus, Plaat Details and other smaller companies. Three weeks ago, we bought 9,000 tourniquets with our partners, the National Defence Promotion Foundation and the Ukrainian Cultural Centre. When I called the military medical team, I called the military battalions and told them I was coming, they asked me how embarrassing it was, but could you bring me ten tourniquets? I said, "Anton, I'll be there on Thursday and bring 2600 tourniquet," how does it feel? He couldn't believe it until I got there with those tourniquets. The greater their joy. My nickname because of the name of the tourniquet is now Lvivis Johanna CUT, because the tourniquet of the seventh generation are CUTs. Every day, several hospitals [and companies], such as East Tallinn Central Hospital, Tallinn Children's Hospital, Chemi-Pharm, Euronics, OneMed, Semetron, Neste have contributed to our warehouse with goods, services and knowledge, and there are so many of them that I couldn't even write them down. Most of all, however, we should probably be grateful to the Estonian people who entrusted us with a very large amount of money through the concert, so that we can deliver help where it is requested and exactly what the help is needed. I was thinking yesterday, if Slava Ukraine were an online store, our most popular sales articles would be ambulances, tourniquets, air-brain patches with and without flaps, best-sucking bandages, Water Jel bandages against phosphorous bombs, burn bonds, burn gels, life-saving machines, first aid kits, syringes, skin clamps, surgical kits, cannulas, including prematures, infusion systems with or without heating, sodium chloride, Ringer, body bags. President Zelinskiy said the golden words: "I need weapons, not a ride! " Listen to what the Ukrainians ask of you. There is no point in sending clothes, toys, pillows to Ukraine. Believe me, they haven't run out of country. I went there, I've lived in Ukraine, I'm going back to Ukraine. We haven't run out of them. Ukraine needs food, fuel, weapons, flak jackets, ballistic helmets, medical supplies, medicine. This list is actually not endless, this list is very specific. I would like to know how many of you have visited Ukraine since the beginning of the new war, how many of you have visited the Kramatorski train station, the Lviv train station, the Dnipro train station. By the way, Dnipro's about to be evacuated. A warning was given a few days ago, but until the first bomb went down, women and children wouldn't evacuate. There's a special smell at the Lviv train station. I can't describe it. I can't describe what's happening on the platforms when the trains arrive from Kharkiv. Go see for yourself. If you feel the worst is over, you're very wrong. Yes, the troops have retreated from under Kiev. If the footage from Butcha, Irpin, Chernigiv, Kramatorsk is so disgusting, wait until Mariupol, Harkiv, Luhansk, Herson opens. I'll tell you the truth, we've ordered body bags, we've ordered shovels. What about you? I commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and their willingness and willingness to cooperate with us here. Young or old organizations, there's no difference. I would like to thank the IRS, which has created a so-called tax credit superlist to make donations better. But today's reality is that refugee aid, the Salvation League, Mondo, Slava Ukrainian and other voluntary organisations have been able to react more quickly and flexibly than the state. We don't need your help to cross the border, we'll get over it faster. We do not need help in filling in customs declarations; we have them pre-filled. We don't need contacts in higher state offices, they're one phone call away. We have all the contacts, the experience, everything necessary to deliver targeted and effective humanitarian aid. It is understandable, of course, that the state as a whole cannot be as flexible as small independent entities. It's understandable. But we could have operational trust between us, just as we had tax confidence by creating a superlist of the so-called income tax concession. I sincerely believe that, in fact, together with the country, we can do more. We little NGOs, we're like spring ants. We climb through every hole, we get everywhere, you don't even notice. Let us help! Our need is very simple. We need financial resources to operate. When the financial resource runs out, all the contacts we've created, networks, knowledge, competence will just stand idle. Listen to what the Ukrainians are asking of you! Help us! I repeat: help us and work together more effectively and we will help you more effectively. Slava Ukrainiani! Herojam Slava! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U83	Thank you for this presentation. I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that, indeed, members of the Riigikogu also have the opportunity to follow from their rooms what is happening in the Riigikogu Hall at all times. And as we can see, people have come to this hall after all. So please, Signe Stone begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, understand your question at the beginning of the report. February 24 was and is the birthday of the Republic of Estonia, and actually my own birthday. But I would never wanna wake up this morning with such a feeling, such pictures. So we understand you. My question is that we really want to help you, too, and it is very important that we have continuous and long-term assistance. I have wanted to become a supporter for some of the Ukrainian families here in Estonia and have also notified refugee aid, but I understand that they are overburdened. But the days go away, and I want to help. Who would you suggest you contact, which network? I know there are NGOs in the local government. But maybe you can give advice to a lot of people in our hall here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U85	Thank you. I flew back yesterday with Eero Janson from refugee aid. I sincerely recommend her, her phone number is on the Internet. I'm gonna put him in here now, but he's gonna take your call. And if you don't find a way to self-realize and assist there, you're always welcome to our warehouse at the T1 center.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U87	Good manager! Dear waitress, That's a very good and clear story for a long time! Respect for your actions during this month! But I've been in trouble for weeks with one of those little, but important things. Estonian men have decided to send their precision weapons to their colleagues near Kiev, and there are not many of them. And now they're in trouble. Today you called me again for giving weapons to our police department, and they were promised to be sent to Kiev, Ukraine, but still haven't been there. Our two ministers, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Defense, have been working on this for a long time, but maybe there's something you can do to help? It's five guns, a couple of sniper weapons and thousands of bullets these men are waiting for near Kiev. But you see, there's no getting out of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U88	Thank you. Slava Ukraine is a humanitarian organization, our goal is to send emergency medical supplies to hospitals and hospitals, or military medics. We cannot help you in this matter because it is military assistance. But I can see why it's stuck there. This help is needed, but I think that this particular aid you have mentioned must go through the right channels and have the right consents. I agree, yes, it could get there faster. But unfortunately, our ambulances don't have an inch of free space for any additional matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U89	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I happened to be watching "Ringview" yesterday, and there you guys were a lot happier. But looking at the energy, the will, the passion, I'm telling you honestly, I had to get a tear in my eye last night when I watched that interview with you. I have two peculiar questions. What is the character property of the Ukrainians, and is it also available to Estonians to help them survive on a completely impossible mission based on numbers? What is it that ensures that Ukraine has been able to endure? We all believe and hope he wins this war. And another peculiar question is that we have a little discussion about which school the children of Ukrainian war refugees should attend. Do you think they should be in an Estonian-language school or should they have more choice and space?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U91	Thank you. When the war started, we used to do FaceTime in the morning and in the evening with video. The joke was always about who has the proudest bunker. Currently, online jokes are not jokes, it is a reality that tractors carry tanks away. When I was on the ground now, I saw that one thing that really helps, [is it]. Since we send less weapons and other help than we could, I think what keeps them alive is, frankly, humor. You're going to Ukraine, there's a different freedom. I have to be honest with you, I feel freer in Ukraine than I feel here. There's something else. This will, this force, this synergy that has arisen on the ground, in any part of the city or region you go to, it doesn't matter. The power of will is so great. This is our country, we're protecting it. To the death! They will protect you to the death. On schools... I'm being completely honest. I have about 20-hour workdays, sometimes 22 hours. I spend 40 minutes a day with my baby. I haven't even had time to think about these things. I'm being completely honest. Let me give you an example of our family. Our nanny family also came from Ukraine with my child's father, and this family is five and seven years old. I was surprised, too, and I didn't help them, it was all their own work that Jaroslav now goes to the French Lyceum. I haven't been able to ask him how he's doing yet, but he came home and then he said, "Hello!"," "Goodbye!" and "Thank you! " I asked what they meant. He said, "I have no idea, I don't know. " I said okay, then we'll study together. They have the will to learn, but most of all, they have the will to go back home, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U92	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Very, very respectable waitress! It was really a report that hasn't been heard in a long time. It was so honest. And there were no slogans about the war in Ukraine, but it was all about life itself. I am very pleased that you have many helpers, but you certainly better than anyone else know how purposefully and best to help people in Ukraine, soldiers in Ukraine. I'd like to ask you about that. Our party actually created a special NGO called the NGO for Ukraine, and I am pleased to hear that our goals are completely aligned with your activities. We, too, did not want to receive from the beginning the money we collect from the people of Estonia has already donated a lot, sent blankets and pillows, but indeed, we also want to put together packages of medical supplies. Would it be possible to get advice and help from you on exactly what to put there and perhaps on delivery and cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U94	Thank you. Yeah, of course it's an opportunity. We have really developed at such a rate that maybe at the beginning it was difficult to reach the suppliers of medical supplies. Now in Ukraine, I received calls from foreign numbers. Called Europe's largest medical suppliers and asked how we can help you with exactly what you are missing, give a list, we'll tell you the prices and delivery times we're sending you. Yeah, we're willing to help you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U95	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, we know that strong women have a world, and you are proof of it in this Chamber today. Forgive those members of the Riigikogu who actually listen to you and us on television, perhaps. It's easier to face this truth and ask is much more complicated. I agree that more fear and worse are yet to come. When this war began, no European leader dared to cross the Ukrainian border. However, countries do indeed remain in the hands of citizens and partnerships and transnational links. How do you think Estonia can contribute even more, to be a strong partner? What should we change? What are we supposed to do? It is simply not possible to replace civil society in this key.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U97	Thank you. First of all, I... At least it's the right news. I repeat, listen to what the Ukrainians are asking. Send what's being asked for. Do not engage in substitution activities, it is not necessary; there is no time for this. My girlfriend and her baby died tonight. [[Break. Trying to keep talking, but weeping and continuing through tears.]] I don't have time for them anymore... Send the help you're being asked for, and do it now! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U98	Would you like a break? Let's take a ten-minute break. Ten-minute manager break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, the break has ended. We were in the middle of the last round of questions and answers by a waitress. But before I call the speaker back, we need to pass the vote on the extension of the sitting. The initiator of the debate has requested that, if the debate does not end at 1 p.m., we extend the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I would then like to take a position on the extension of the sitting and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U100	There are 36 delegates in favour of the extension, no votes against, no abstentions. The meeting has been extended until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Now please return to the speech chair of Johanna-Maria Lehtme. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U101	Good waitress! Thank you for this very important presentation and overview, as well as for the specific answers to our questions. In your report, you referred to Zelenskiy, who said in the first days of the war that I didn't need a ride, I needed weapons. I think it was one very important guide to the wider Western allies and also to our people. I know many people who, like me, after that, made their first donation to the Ukrainian armed forces precisely. And we need that kind of feedback. That is why my question is that, as a politician, I have the feeling that maybe we should be going more to Berlin, Brussels, Paris and perhaps to Budapest to convince the allies that they will make their contribution in the same way that Estonia has done. Of course, we must also go to Ukraine, but we may be a burden and a burden there. My request is for you to reflect a little bit, which are those replacement activities that don't make sense to do, where there's no point in rushing into. And what are the things politicians should do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U102	I agree with you that you must go to the capitals of Europe. Kiev is one of them. If you were now Boris Johnson and Ursula von der Leyen in Kiev, we were calmer. We got some rest, we didn't have to wake up and go to the bomb shelter at night. We were wearing clothes anyway, at night too. But it also gives us rest when you go there. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Matti Strawberry is already back in Kiev. I do not know how happy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the European Commission is about this. But there he is, and I hope the others will follow him. Replacement activities... Don't get caught up in bureaucracy. We're not in a normal situation right now. We are in a crisis, we are in a war situation, because our country is not at war. In fact, there is a crisis situation in our country. I think we could be more flexible, take decisions a little faster. I understand your work, it's not easy, I'm not saying that. But allow a little more flexibility both for yourself and for us, work with us. Listen to what we have to say. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has launched day-to-day Skype meetings for practitioners, where the largest charities are involved, with the exception of the Red Cross. We'll exchange experiences. And we actually advise the State Department on how to do things better. One [important] thing is speed: you can actually, the country can function faster. We are not doing all this because we are currently in a normal situation in the country. We do not consider this to be a crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U103	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U104	Thank you. I fully agree with you that the Ukrainians are looking forward to these visits. When Borrell and Leyen were on the same train, there were no sleeping places. The train was so crowded. But my question is that MEPs from other European countries pointed out that the people's first impulse to donate has shrunk in these countries as well. Networks, however, actually exist as NGOs. It would be extremely irresponsible to allow this rapid flexibility of know-how for the time being to go a little short. Do you support the idea that the government would provide funding from the additional budget for those operating non-profit institutions that are online, able to provide real-time assistance and do so on a larger scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U105	Thank you. Of course I support this idea. Like I said, we're running out of money. Slava Ukraine will soon have no money left to act. But I came back from Ukraine, I have a meeting with a team at 3:00, and we're going to change our system a little again. Every time there's a little fine-tuning. Unfortunately, if we are the most effective, we do our job the best, the money will run out. We lose contact, we lose competence. For us to be able to continue, we need money. I am very grateful once again to the Estonian people that they have donated and continue to donate, but it is no longer in the amounts that we can operate on. The price of one ambulance is EUR 15000. Inside, we will put the contents of EUR 30000 to EUR 50000. These orders are getting more expensive. Kiev Hospital 7 is asking us for a 400+ fixer. It's just the bolts and wires and nuts that get stuck in the leg. If I wanted to do this, and we did it, we bought a hundred pieces, they were very grateful, then it had a budget of over 20,000 euros. They asked for more things. The budget for this car was over EUR 60000, plus the machine itself EUR 14000. It's not right to say that our money is on fire. This money goes to the right place. We simply need money to operate so that we can continue to help and bring help there, to the exact address from which we were actually asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U106	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U107	Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! I remember saying, if you want something done, trust the women. You have talked about what Ukraine needs, and Ukraine is grateful for this. But I think that Estonia too is grateful for the lesson that unfortunately happens: how the state and the people are united and how decision-makers at different levels are acting in the interests of their country. This is an extremely important lesson and I sincerely hope that we will never need it. But I would like to thank you and Ukraine for this, and I would like to apologize for having a strange debate here in this Chamber yesterday, whether it is a conflict or a war. It's very unfortunate that we had this thing happening here. But I have a practical question: one of the Estonian companies wants to give the armory vests to whom I should turn to to get a contact?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U108	Would you like to send them there, or would you like to buy them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U109	Send it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U110	Towards the Ukrainian Cultural Center.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U111	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U112	Thank you. Good waitress! You are right, we do not understand what the Ukrainians are going through in their own country, because we are much safer here. And I have to say that in me personally, when I look at these pictures and I read about [evening], it just causes helplessness. Because you see what women, children, old people are going through, and you can't really undo it or offer them the security they need. And likewise, I agree that the best help today is money, because you know exactly where and how to get it. That is why I am asking you that, if there is now a desire to help specifically Ukrainian children who are seeing and experiencing something that no child should have to experience in their lives, what is the most appropriate channel. What is the best way to help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U113	Do you mean the ones who are here or there? You ask what is the best way to help those children who have suffered war. Send weapons, send fuel, send food, whatever Ukraine asks of you. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U114	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U115	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this review and for the speech you gave today in this Chamber. [Ukraine] The country is at war, and we are more protected because the Ukrainians are so bravely fighting practically in the nuclear courtyard. The Ukrainian war refugees, who have reached Estonia with women, children and the elderly, are in different municipalities. There are about 180 in the town of Viljandi and more are coming. And they, too, want to help their homeland. When they listen to their talk in Viljandi, there are weekly briefings with them, they also said that don't send pillows or pillows, rather than sleeping bags. You don't travel with a pillow and a blanket, you're better off sleeping bag. But you probably need more money. Does Slava Ukraine have such a network across Estonia to involve these people so that they can contribute to the release of their homeland?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U116	Thank you. Our team is currently made up of six people who work 18 to 20 hours a day. On the weekends, I give the order to rest. We've already started developing middle otitis because we're running into and out of ambulances. People are just burned out. How can they help? It is certainly possible in Viljandi, all over Estonia has actually initiated such a thing as "Helping to protect'. We send, NGO Slava Ukrainiani sends all these protective nets to Ukraine If these people get to Tallinn, please, come visit us, help us write in Ukrainian on the boxes that are inside and where they go exactly. Any help is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U117	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U118	Thank you. Honourable Lviv Johanna! I would like to continue with the question that Toomas Kivimägi asked about the character of the nation of the Ukrainians compared to perhaps Estonians. Previously on Human Rights I want to say that I have repeatedly stressed that we are not helping the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians are helping us now, and we are only paying the debt, and we are not paying it adequately. But speaking of national traits, you can perfectly compare Ukrainians and Estonians. I think that Estonians have most of these positive features, maybe only a sense of humor should change. I noticed this much more in Ukraine and even in the most dramatic situation. We went to Butcha, and the local residents talked about what was happening there, and at first I had a creepy feeling, humorous. But Estonians still have some qualities that I didn't see in the Ukrainians, interacting with the woods, local authorities, ordinary people: whining, maliciousness, distrust. Do we have to teach the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U119	We have nothing to teach the Ukrainians, we have to learn from the Ukrainians. I think this war has shown it very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, a minute is the question. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U121	Thank you. I hope this doesn't affect an empty courtesy, but my condolences to you. Indeed, if all this is observed, what is happening in Ukraine... You said give me what the Ukrainians ask. They're asking, right, no-fly zone. That's what we don't give them, and that's how we can watch what's going on on TV. And it really doesn't seem that anything will help them if it's not in the no-fly zone. But you said help, let us help. Would you specify how the Riigikogu will not allow you to be helped at the moment and what to do to allow you to do so that you can help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U122	Thank you. Very simple: give us the money. I was prepared for this speech a little bit. I was in Lvivis. Saturday night, I talked to wiser men than me, they said, for God's sake, go to the Riigikogu and ask for money. I'm telling you straight now: give me the money. We're gonna deliver things exactly where we need to go, and exactly what we're asking for. Listen to what the Ukrainians are asking. And send.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U123	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U124	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! At this point, seven organisations have been selected by the government. Do you think that the number of charitable organisations could be higher or lower, or should the seven that are there now be re-examined to qualify as, say, such a government support or associate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U125	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the tax administration and to you for responding so quickly that an opportunity has been created to donate to these seven. On the one hand, I would be very pleased if NGO Slava Ukrainian was on that list. I didn't know a year ago that war was gonna start. So I didn't create an NGO for that. We were created on March 7th. That's the way it is. I completely understand that we've been able to get ourselves to work like that, like maybe everyone hasn't. And I understand that it really doesn't make sense to change the law just for us. Why should we be better than others? Yeah, I'd really appreciate it, but I think you're about to have these questions. We have signed a cooperation agreement, signed a cooperation agreement with the Tallinn Old Town Rotary Club, and this allows us to help you with your income tax exemption. The head of the tax administration and the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance are aware of this. Because when it was said that we could add NGO Slava to Ukraine, we said that if we could not get a list there, if for obvious reasons it was not possible to make that exception for us, then we would work like this. They said yes, please deliver. And we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U126	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U127	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, my condolences, too, first of all, and most sincerely. But the question, I hope it does not sound very trivial, although it does not really seem to me that the issues relating to Ukraine can be very trivial. But basically the aid can be given in two ways: one thing is to give there the aid, the other thing, which is inevitable, is to give the aid here. And, of course, we have thousands of children who have come from Ukraine, and they have training ahead. And we have political discussions on whether we should teach Ukrainian children in Estonian, Ukrainian, Russian or English. You're in close contact with these circles. Could you tell us what the Ukrainians think they should be taught in what language?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U128	Thank you. I hope it doesn't seem like an insult, but go ask it yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U129	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U130	Thank you. Listening to this conversation, I really wish it wouldn't just sound like such self-truths how much we're Ukrainians. Most are, don't really have to prove it at any moment. And second of all, I don't want the sound of a thing that shouldn't be helping right now, because every help actually comes from the heart. If something's been done wrong, there's no way to put it down. However, I would like advice to remain, which is very practical. It is probably the weapons and money that it is most practical for Ukraine to obtain from the average Estonian. The average Estonian doesn't get guns, so there's money left. How would you now put the message of money into? The easiest! In fact, there are all kinds of donation methods, but people don't really have the right accounts in front of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U131	In 2014, the campaign "For Ukraine" was actually launched. The war didn't start this year. There are with Mondo, Refugee and Ukrainian Cultural Centre. You can donate to them. You can also donate to us, we are very pleased about that. Why am I dressed like this now? Please go to www.slava.ee. Why am I dressed like this now? Because I have to go buy an ambulance. This car is also full of tires, there's probably a lot of dirt in it that's been sent. So send money for ambulances. Send a grant.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U132	Thank you. Now the time for questions and answers is up. Thank you very much for the waitress. And we can go to the negotiations. Mati Raidma, I'm sorry, the initiator's representative should be here first. Who's in charge? No, that's what's gonna happen. There's no one on the originator's side. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U133	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's world has changed in a few months. All of us, based on human values and a peaceful way of developing the world, are in real danger. The bloody aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has changed everything. And today must be the whole world with Ukraine. This is a mission for all of us. Today we're talking about help. I would first like to emphasise the principle of genuine aid. The idea that I and I can do, not what you and they should do, should be carrying. And all of this is with two crucial [objectives]: that Ukraine, as a country, can defend the will of its people and their independence from them, and secondly that the Ukrainian people, especially the most vulnerable, elderly, women, children, are protected. I am proud of Estonia today in my heart. A society that is mobilized to help Ukraine shows that our values, our humanity, our unity is strong. Our hearts are with Ukraine. Our public authorities, voluntary organisations, entrepreneurs and ordinary Estonian people are doing their best. Good Johanna-Maria! I thank you and, through you, all those who contribute with full passion and devotion. It's up to us all to think about what I'm doing, I'm Mati or I'm Marko, I'm Thomas. I, too, am going back to Ukraine this week and not to see, but to help with my knowledge and experience in the area of the crisis. What can we continue to do as a country in addition to this rapid practical assistance? We can set an example, explain it, inspire it, call it. This is one of our tasks today in an internationally shared world of values, but also here in home Estonia. We were among the first to support and encourage other countries to provide comprehensive arms assistance to Ukraine. We are mobilized, both as a country and as a civil society, to deliver the message of support for Ukraine and to help Ukraine convince the hesitants. Coming to today's presentations, I would like to clarify a few things. Unfortunately, knowledge of the organisation and coordination of humanitarian aid is modest in our continent. In addition to bilateral activities, UN humanitarian organisations play a very important role in this process in Ukraine. The World Food Programme has been established to coordinate the whole food aid field, which also operates in Ukraine. The European Union's better organised contribution is welcome, but competitive action does not generate any revenue. Cooperation is crucial here and I know that it will work today. Secondly, the regional focus, or so-called friendship area, in organising Estonia's aid, especially in the post-war reconstruction process, is welcome, but in reality, and especially today, our potential contribution is limited. The key to the effectiveness of our assistance to Ukraine today is the free initiative of society and the avoidance of overemphasis on the organisation of state affairs. We'll help where we can, what we can and for as long as we need help. And we will do it together: state, civil society, every person in Estonia, us, all of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U134	Mikhail Lotman, please! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U135	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The Ukrainian people are not only brave and determined but also grateful. He thanks all the helpers and any help he needs. But this aid is shamefully small. Urmas Reinsalu gave an example of food aid that covers about a third of the daily needs. As far as arms and ammunition aid is concerned, the precise data on it has not been made public, but this proportion is much worse. When we talk about helping Ukraine by the European Union and NATO countries, it is very clear, and the Ukrainians also see it, who is doing great words and who is doing some real things. We read in the papers that such and such great sanctions will be imposed on Russia, and in the small scrift: next year and not all. And so on. They're supplying weapons in 2024. Germany's position is particularly interesting here. For a long time, it was said that we could not send weapons for humanitarian reasons, that we could not reduce our defence forces. I have a question about who is currently in a tense relationship in Germany. With Denmark, France, Switzerland or even Liechtenstein? But they can't weaken that power. Moreover, it has recently become apparent that Rheinmetal is the largest weapons industry in Germany was ready to immediately deliver half a trillion worth of equipment, but no, the German Government and Parliament decided that it would be delivered, but next year, the first batch in a few months. But this weaponry is needed in Eastern Ukraine today, if not yesterday. Now, now that we're talking about humanitarian aid, why are we talking about weapons? Because sending weapons is also humanitarian aid. The point is, unlike the ordinary war, so-called law-abiding war, when an area has been conquered, this country, which controls this territory, is responsible for the security of the population and protects people from war. What we are seeing now in Ukraine is quite the opposite. War doesn't just go on front. The war also goes against the population in the conquered areas. Against infrastructure. Tanks just shoot at all houses. There's no one there, but they're just shooting at them. And sexual crimes. Today's BBC news came that in addition to killing 300+ people in Butcha, 25 women have been kept in the basement for rape cases described earlier. Some of them were already pregnant, but they were systematically raped. These are acts of genocide under international law. And in Butcha there are several acts of genocide made in only one village. International unity and the Heads of State are using this term very carefully. Perhaps, as President Biden said, Butša's events are preparing for genocide. Sorry, there's already been a number of acts of genocide. And this is a small village! We know what's done in other areas. Recently we went to Ukraine. We were promised to Butša, but not to Borodyanka, because the bodies had not been harvested there and the area had been mined. Borodyanka is also only one small village. Such news is now beginning to come and it is feared that there will be more of them in Eastern Ukraine. So armed aid is also humanitarian aid today. Especially if we know that the commander of the armed forces in Ukraine has been appointed Mr Alexander Dvornikov, who has been called the Aleppo Butcher or the Syrian Butcher, and who has been accused of using a chemical weapon in Syria. And now we see that, as he was put in charge of the army, signals have come from the use of chemical weapons in Mariupoli as well. What does Ukraine need? Everything. We know that GDP will fall by almost half next year in Ukraine. This means recovery [difficulties], plus billions of direct losses in industry, agriculture. And that is not just a Ukrainian problem. This is already feared by many African countries, as Ukraine was a supplier of grain to many hungry regions. And now I want to emphasise once again that this conflict, war, aggression, genocide in Ukraine is of global importance. And everything has to be sent: medical devices, from medicines and medical supplies, which all hospitals need, to those ambulances that have been discussed today. The Ukrainians there, both the county ambassadors and the local authorities, are asking that we go on the ground. Before, for example, I did not know of a problem such as the lack of forest fire trucks, because the occupiers destroyed these cars. Forests are flammable. And they very much asked Estonia to send forest fire trucks. I asked what they were like. They said any kind, but there's got to be a four-wheel drive. Well, there you go. Separately, psychological assistance is important. They asked me, first, to send specialists to help those people who have been through the occupation and, second, to teach here. Finally, Estonia's main resource is not money, a weapon or anything like that. But we have a [strong] political position, we are members of NATO and the European Union, and the Ukrainians are asking us to be their voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U136	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U137	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! As national conservationists, of course, we fully support the Ukrainian struggle and those people who have had to flee from Ukraine. Ukraine's country was, is and remains. Estonia was, is and will remain a friend of Ukraine. A good friend looks to the future and does not appreciate the present, not from his own perspective, but from a friend's viewpoint. In this case, we should consider everything from the point of view of the Ukrainian nation, society and state, and appreciate it honestly. Much has been said today about what we can [now do] and we have to do now. And I agree, of course, that we can do more than we have done so far. But my speech looks more into the future. That is, I am focusing on the population of Ukraine. And a good basis for this is the study of prestigious demographics at the University of St Andrews, which analyses the impact of Russia's attack on the future of the Ukrainian population. All wars are known to result in casualties and refugees. The number of casualties and refugees depends on the extent of the conflict, i.e. whether the conflict involves predominantly armed forces or also the wider civilian population. Certain groups are more vulnerable than others to war. Of course, there are young men who fight. And in Ukraine, the President has called for a general mobilisation, banning men aged 18 to 60 from the country. As a result, fleeing Ukrainian families are mostly young and mostly incomplete as families, consisting of women with children. The men have stayed to fight. However, the purpose of this study was to analyse the potential impact of the ongoing war in Ukraine on the population and population structure of the country in the short and medium term. It makes a series of population projections with different assumptions on which we can decide for ourselves how we should behave. Ukraine's demographic situation was not well known before the war. The lack of stability is not known to have a good effect on the birth rate. The fastest population decline in Ukraine occurred in the 1990s, like Estonia. Since 2012, however, there has actually been a positive development, which means that the rate of annual depopulation has slowed down because the Ukrainian people who have gone abroad have started to return. They have such a small positive balance of migration, which means that immigration is more than emigration. That's from 2005. But it has not compensated for the reduced population due to low or very low birth rates. And now, even if the impact of the war and the escape are not taken into account, Ukraine's population will decrease by 16% over the next two decades due to the very low birth rate, while Ukrainian society will rapidly grow old. Now, the study has set the most negative assumption that 5 million people will escape from Ukraine, of which only 10% will return to Ukraine. And if so, the population of Ukraine will decrease by up to 33% by 2040, the working age population by up to 36% and the number of children by up to 56%. However, if the same 5 million people are still fleeing and 90% of the refugees return to Ukraine, the loss of population would not be great. These population projections in this most negative scenario, i.e. a 33% reduction in population, a 36% reduction in the working age population and a 56% reduction in the number of children demonstrate that this is not just a matter of population loss, but a very negative demographic development in the event of post-war bad circumstances. This, in turn, creates economic and political instability, which may mean that young adults in Ukraine also decide to leave the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U138	I'm sorry, Jack. Should I put in some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U140	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U141	So, what can we do to enable Ukraine to develop into a country that is demographic, economic and politically successful after the war? First of all, we must, of course, use all our foreign policy options to put pressure on Russia and help Ukraine with the means of defence, as well as with everything Ukraine is asking us to end the war with Ukraine's victory as soon as possible. It's elementary. However, in view of the post-war period, we can already act in two directions. Firstly, to ensure that Ukraine has sufficient financial assistance for the country's economic recovery and for a family policy that increases the birth rate. Secondly, it must be ensured that as many refugees as possible return to Ukraine. Voluntary return depends on a number of factors according to this study. In particular, more educated immigrants and those who have difficulty integrating return and those who have fled to a nearby country. So, first of all, we should focus our aid for refugees on refugees who have found temporary asylum in Ukraine itself and in close countries. Secondly, we should treat Ukrainian refugees as friendly as we can, but still treat them only as temporary refuge seekers, not as permanent visitors to Estonia. As we have heard, the Ukrainian refugees themselves have a great desire to return home, and we must take that into account. We should not push Ukrainian children into Estonian or Russian-speaking Estonian schools, but provide them, if necessary by supplying them with smart devices, the opportunity to use e-learning according to Ukrainian curricula in Ukrainian schools and, if necessary, to create Ukrainian-speaking schools. We should not try to leave Ukrainian refugees in Estonia in order to treat them as an add-on to cheap labour or, more importantly, to use their position to lower their pay. Refugees generally do not qualify for a more complex job because of their language skills. In Estonia, the direction to use cheap labour means abandoning innovation and economic progress, while in Ukraine, the loss of people who would be able to work harder and necessary for Ukraine. However, we want to be useful to Ukraine's society and state. Long live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U142	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall and the transmission monitors! I would like to thank all those who have spoken above for their thorough reports and answers. But, at the same time, the focus of the Ukrainian war is the drive to the east of the country, and news has already come from Ukrainians returning to their homeland. It is true that, at the same time, emigration will continue and it will take years to rebuild Ukraine and create a decent living environment. But we are talking about Estonia: what should Estonia's role be in the light of the crisis in Ukraine? I am proud that Estonia has been at the forefront of both military and humanitarian aid in Europe and the world. Our small country can do more than many of us are much larger or more prosperous countries. The maturity of our society is also demonstrated by the comprehensive helping of war refugees. I take this opportunity to pay special tribute to my groupmate Kaido Haökelson, who has already hosted half a hundred Ukrainians in [his own accommodation]. Against this background, the wording of the 'war' in this Chamber is somewhat petty. Although I understand clearly the effect and the power of the word, we should not go to each other for this. Procedural questions about the proposal to practice Russian on the floor here, no excuse me, this [is] cynicism! I call on you to think one more time in such cases before you ask such questions. What is happening in Ukraine has also affected the everyday life and livelihood of the Estonian people. The Centre Party Group stands by to provide Ukraine with all possible support and reception of tens of thousands of refugees. We must not forget our people about this, of course. Our citizens also need the help of the state. Rapid price growth, scarcity of raw materials in many sectors of the economy and the destruction of raw material chains around the world have made it necessary to restructure the economic activities of companies. Recently, we read news of the biggest increase in prices over the past 26 years. Compared to last year, prices in Estonia increased by 15.2% in March. In order to mitigate the effects of the crisis, we need to think through measures to support both people and businesses. Wages and pensions growth has not kept pace with inflation. This means that the state must take maximum control of what is happening and ensure the sustainability of the economy and the livelihood of the people. Of course, as a country, we must make an effort so that Ukrainian children can go to our kindergartens as soon as possible and continue their studies in our schools. Ukrainians have shown themselves to be quick learners and conscientious workers. In order for them to fit in with our society and be able to do without the help of the state, we must offer them a job. The first important step we took yesterday was the adoption by the Riigikogu of the Aliens Act, which introduced more flexible conditions for the labour migration of people from third countries. This includes facilitating the integration of Ukrainian refugees into the labour market. Video footage and photos from Ukraine provide us with appalling pictures, and we must remember that the Ukrainians are fighting for peace and values throughout Europe, and our support must remain strong until the end of the war. Aggressor doesn't have a nation and the enemy doesn't have a face. It therefore seems ironic that the aggression continues to be a member of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The largest regional cooperation organisation on security issues, which aims to ensure peace and stability, cannot be held in its midst as a violation of these principles. We must maintain unity and inflexible within the European Union on this issue. I acknowledge the people of Estonia who have helped Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Finally, I would like to remind you that tomorrow at 12 noon, the President of the Riigikogu, Mr. Jüri Ratas, will present a video address in a large hall with a video address from the President of Ukraine, Volodõmer Zelenskiy. I strongly recommend that everyone observe it and watch it. Long live Estonia! Long live Ukraine! Long live peace in the world! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U144	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this debate here, I don't think we have any NGOs who would have directed politicians in this Chamber or influenced politicians as much as it did here today. I hope it has an effect. Our Commander of the Defence Forces must have been the man who said a very good sentence: the Ukrainians do not die for us, but instead of us. And I think it is an idea, a painful truth that we should all bear in mind when we make decisions here concerning Ukraine, Europe or our future. In fact, they're not dying for us, they're dying for us. This threat here under our side has been on for a very long time. In this sense it is good that we here in Estonia can be sure that we have built our national defence on the basis of the right logic, on the basis of the right analyses. All that we are prepared for, even if other Europe was not very keen to believe it, we did not listen very much to what we were saying, unfortunately, all of this has come true in Ukraine today. And all the more so, we must have the responsibility to go about Europe as much as possible. I want to say yes, certainly the Ukrainians feel more confident and better when a high European politician goes to Kiev. Yeah, that's it. But we here in Estonia maybe should ask whether we have to go first and foremost to Kiev, maybe we should still go more to Brussels and some other European capital. The Social Democrats have been doing a great deal of this work in Europe since 24 February, actually before, but especially since 24 February. We have talked to many of our colleagues, we are doing this now and we will continue to do so. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you too will take this opportunity to explain all this to the rest of Europe. I want to thank all these Estonian people, all these Ukrainians, all those NGOs who have voluntarily contributed very much. All the debate we have had here today, all that we have seen through the media or in which we have been involved in one way or the other, is very important. The people's contribution, their commitment, their help is very important. It is just, in my opinion, sad that the country has rather been a follow-up on this issue. On the issues of helping Ukraine, which do not concern arms, which do not concern arms or political lobby, we have dragged the Estonian state after the people. It has been the Estonian people who have taken the initiative to help. I don't think it's right. And I don't think it's right that all the help that comes to the refugees here I mean all the everyday necessities they need from Estonian entrepreneurs and people, but not from the state. The problem is, it's not possible for a long time, at some point it's going to go away. And if we actually have an NGO with this effect and we know what they are doing, we see what they are doing, we can control it, and we are convinced that they are doing the right thing, they are doing the Estonian thing in Ukraine, we are doing the common thing, then I do not understand how it can be that we have so much bureaucracy and so much obstacles or so much involuntary involvement in this country. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U146	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U147	I hope that this debate and the debate that was in this Chamber will take away the fears, I don't know, for what reason they have been, that this non-military aid has not come out of Estonia much. And my appeal to the government is that we in this Parliament would like to see the government also lend a hand to the people of Ukraine. It doesn't matter less how the Ukrainians who came here are doing today and in a year's time. Let's not forget that a lot of women's men are on the front and at war. And believe it or not, this is how it is that the safer and better these children and women are kept here with us, the more confident and better these men are fighting in Ukraine for the freedom of Ukraine and, in fact, for the freedom of Estonia. Therefore, I do not understand the comments and observations that we have heard a little here in [the Chamber]. However, at the various major political meetings in Estonia this weekend, I believe that the basis for us to have conflicts here in Estonia as soon as [the situation] may be relaxed. Those people who've been running from the war, these people aren't like bad people here. I would say that we should not look at Ukrainians, war refugees who are victims, but we should look at the Estonian Government and ask why the Estonian person is doing badly or badly. Let's not put these two things together, please. This will not help in any way, even if the words in this remote control are beautiful, that Ukraine is our friend and the Ukrainian people must be supported, but with the other hand, resentment is quietly encouraged. Let's not do this! Let's not use the Ukrainians for this! Let us say specifically and directly: the Ukrainians are not responsible for this; it is the work done by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, so that its people are not noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U148	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's situation, it is really difficult to highlight a more important and urgent issue than the situation in Ukraine, no matter what the point of view, we do not dissect it: either the moment of the military situation or how we can help without Ukraine. Today we are talking about helping Ukraine. Indeed, this must be done in a coordinated and as wide-ranging manner as possible, so that all the needs that the Ukrainian state needs are met. I seized Mikhail Lotman's speech, where he said that indeed, the Ukrainians also need help to put out forest fires and prevent them. Russian aggressors have also destroyed their fire trucks. Forest fires are a serious challenge and we should really join in. In fact, we should look today at the situation that happens after the war. That Ukraine will win the war, I believe. We have to do everything we can for this. And I have no doubt for a moment that Ukraine will win the war. Consequently, this means that we will also have the reconstruction of Ukraine, the reconstruction of Ukraine. We need to think about how to help Ukraine in this ecological disaster. Here it would be worth thinking about a little bit back in time when Russia had not yet attacked Ukraine on such a large scale and we were discussing the theme of the Green Revolution here. Clearly, at the time, we could not foresee the ecological disaster that will result from this war. In Ukraine, there was such a large supply of natural gas in a large gas tank that Estonia needed for four to five years. Estonia could have consumed it for four or five years, but it flew into the atmosphere. We must also really think about what such wars mean for the environment and how we can help Ukraine to solve ecological problems. One might say thank God that, although it was a dry time, this forest did not burn, which the Russian aggressors wanted to set on fire. But if the forests around Chernobyl, where there are very polluted forests, burn, then the ecological disaster is very widespread and it cannot be ruled out that its impact will reach here too, but it will certainly reach Ukraine on a very large scale. And we should certainly think in advance today about how we can help Ukraine. There are four times as many forests in Ukraine as there are in Estonia, so this is not a non-existent forest area and if forest fires are to break out, they can have a very large and cataphastic effect. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U150	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U151	Now, which I would like to talk about: the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also asked about sanctions. Estonia should be a catalyst here, there is no doubt about that. We've been good, but not good enough. When we are talking about banning gas imports, it has rather remained at the level of 'well, in the new year we could lose weight' or 'in the new year I will quit smoking'. Can't go with that attitude! We should have a clear message: tomorrow Russian gas imports will end in Estonia. Period. We know that Germany has been saying that it would take perhaps two years for them to make this transition. It's a laughing stock! Two years should feed Russia so that it can continue the war in Ukraine. This kind of action is, in fact, a catalyst and will also help other countries to reach a solution more quickly. Our room does not need to be warm at the cost of the soldiers who have fallen in Ukraine and of the civilians who have died. This is a harsh price that we pay for our room warm, and in fact, the whole of Europe should understand it. And also: hopefully, an additional budget will arrive soon. In the supplementary budget, we should also think about how we are helping Ukraine, how we are preparing for the country's exit from the war. We heard a call from a waitress, Johanna-Maria Lehtme, that we should support those organisations that are working to assist Ukraine today. Undoubtedly, that's right. But one more thought I'd like to bring. He said that we should ask him what the Riigikogu should do so that we should put an end to the replacement activity. We should be more busy. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we should stop making Brezhnev packages, just as we did yesterday with the Aliens Act, as we have tried many times before in this legislative process. Some things have been taken back by the coalition, some things have not. It is not beautiful if we try to solve our problems and our political agenda in the shadow of the Ukrainian war with these Brezhnev packages. This kind of substitution is actually what we should definitely end. Ukraine must be helped. This is not a Ukrainian war, this is our war. And indeed, those people who die on the front in Ukraine are basically our soldiers. Long live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U153	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Some details and improvements. My colleague Mikhail, Butša is not a village, there are about as many residents as in Pärnu, a little less. If Pärnu is a village, then... And the Minister of Foreign Affairs here, he also has a lot of work, said that only 15 tons per day need food aid for Ukraine. Three zeros forgot, 15,000. But a lot happens to the doers. Yes, this war, which is currently going on in Ukraine, is absurd, irrational and all these other words combined. But knowing a little bit about the mind of the Kremlin rulers, what they think of history is nothing strange. In their opinion, Ukraine is not a country; Ukraine has always been part of Russia, both historically, culturally and spiritually. And what is more important is that the Malorossija has always been part of Russia. President Putin made a direct statement on 17 April 2014. So this fight for Mariupol and Azovstal's resistance there right now, I'm keeping my fingers crossed, it's actually part of Putin's historical vision to unite those regions that are up to Odessa. Mariupol and Herson already exist, including Donetsk, to become part of this Masolossian Russia, as Putin said already on 17 April 2014. It's kind of cynical [talk], trying to figure out what's coming from there. And it is symbolic, of course, when this war or, as Russia says, the special operation began: it started early in the morning of February 24. Remember, it used to be Army and Navy Day. But in Russia, this is patriotic day. Patriot Day! And the next morning, they went to defend the so-called Fatherland. Because all this construction is that the fatherland is in danger. NATO and everything else are putting Russia under its stomach. That's it. In this context, we must say clearly that we have chosen a side. Very clearly! And that also determines what I'm saying here and what we're talking about, at least most of it. Perhaps you remember what the late Polish President Kaczyński said in Thbilisi 14 years ago: Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the Baltic countries the day after tomorrow, and then perhaps my Polish turn will come. So he was very foresighted about it. And it is perfectly understandable that we have such a single attitude at the moment, even in the context of this speech in Kaczyński Thbilisi. Yes, we are truly extraordinarily hospitable; our heart is greater than our organism. We'll give it all away and the blue-yellow flags will wave. There are so many of them in some cities that there is no place for the flag of Estonia, a playful city of Tartu. But this is clear: these colors, yellow and blue, are the colours of the Reform Party, the colours of the Prime Minister's party, and the mayor of Tartu is in the Reform Party. So I'm not surprised why blue-yellow flags are waving so much in Tartu. But let's see what it's all gonna cost us. One side is that our side has been clearly chosen, but the other side is that we also have to think about Estonia, members of the Estonian Parliament in particular. What the previous President Kaljulaid said surprisingly, I read: "The European Union will probably also understand that if Estonia receives a number of refugees that are eight times more in proportion to the population than the number of inhabitants that have been added to Germany during the Merkel Wir schaffen das's sentence, then we must be financially supported. " And President Kaljulaid went even further and dreamed of a new Sweden with many war refugees, then Ukrainian war refugees at the moment, and they must be put into Estonian schools and put to work here for Estonia by these tens of thousands of refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U154	Peter, do you need more time? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U155	And here my guess and our guess are going to go like the opposite of President Kaljulaid's guess. Jaak Valge turned down the bulk that, in fact, the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian minds, which have awakened with this war or, as the occupier says, with a special operation, should be supported. You have to keep that flame. Because when you look at the people of Ukraine, it is also reflected among those who came here, the last census shows that 72.9% are ethnic Ukrainians, but 64% say that their native language is Ukrainian. 39% only uses Ukrainian in 39%! .36% Russian only. In fact, there are 22% of the Russians. And 25% use Ukrainian and Russian every day. So it should be up to us to hold and support this flame and, of course, that the people who come here, so that their children receive education in Ukrainian, first and foremost, and as soon as possible, go back to building the Ukrainian state. This would, of course, be particularly painful for the Kremlin's current rulers, whose maps show that Ukraine does not exist, there is a small strip out there somewhere above Maloressija, such a gloomy collar on the map. And it's strategically important. The second thing is, of course, what it means financially. I looked at the German Statistical Office. And what I saw there: it is not as we are told that EUR 5 000 will cost us one of the refugees. There, I say to you that in 2021, last year, a refugee in war cost EUR 187444 - 187000 - last year! 160000 in the year before. And given the cost of living and the purchasing power, you should multiply it by 0.65. You know how to calculate. So these are quite large sums, and that is what President Kaljulaid referred to. But really, that's not the most important thing right now. It is important that we should think that the wording of the Preamble in our constitution will, in any case, be maintained regardless. And, of course, as President Kaczyński said: after Ukraine, we will most likely be, and perhaps he will also be, Poland. So let us live in Ukraine, but let us also live as Estonia, and Estonia as a nation state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U156	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Sorry, Mikhail Lotman has a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U157	Thank you. Well, since I've been mentioned, I want to get a little off my back. My colleague Ernits quite rightly corrected me that Butša is a large city. But when we talk about these massacres and crimes, it has not been meant that these houses have been multistoreyed further away. I saw something like Lasnamäe. But all this action took place in a relatively isolated and small area. And usually when the international media are now talking about Butcha, it is not about the whole city, but about this area, perhaps it would not be right to call it a village, but it is an isolated, relatively isolated region and very small. And the intensity of crime in this small area is fantastic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U158	Thank you. I'm guessing the procedure is now solved, too. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people! Dear waitresses and, of course, coworkers! We have a surprisingly large heart that has come out. Our charity campaigns, of course, are based on such bounty or enthusiasm, but that is what I would like to mention, so that aid does not become a kind of clown or that we are already doing charity on behalf of the feim. I pointed out that we have seven organizations selected, through which then [it is] like charity. But the last waitress admitted that, in fact, Ukraine's Abi was also an NGO who carried these medical bags and in fact has been assisting Ukraine since 2014. A simple example! So we can't say that this Haapsalu mom, who's always making socks for Ukrainian fighters, that she doesn't have to make those socks anymore. Because Ukraine, if you can imagine, is 603000 square kilometers large and there are about 41 million people. Thanks to the joint media, almost every member of the Riigikogu has at least two familiar Ukrainians. In the common media, we see where somebody says every day that now these people need this, this and that. So that's the reference to ask them what they want, that's what all people rely on. At this point, one of the seven NGOs may be involved in medical activities. And he says it's a priori, but I say the most important thing is that we can shut the sky down there. And then we'd look at something else. But we cannot do that, we could do this as a small country thanks to other countries. That emotional speech was good, I liked it because it shook our many workmates to some extent as well as the people who are watching us. I hope that tomorrow's Zelensky speech will also be extremely emotional, that we can later go and say: "Zelenskõi, Molodets, a Putinu chapel. " That's how we picket it. I really don't want someone to come and tell us what kind of help we need to get somewhere. I have my own contacts. And the weapons requests they've sent, their prices have increased in the meantime. It does not surprise anyone that the prices of weapons in an active military conflict are rising. Then maybe we won't be shittin'. I also hope that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs will at least think about how we can involve all Estonian people. Are you saying that at the World Fair, the little papers, the skanks that were put in it, were put in the Ukrainian pavilion, that it was a pointless activity? No, it's called solidarity. We've forgotten the word "solidarity." The President is currently elected in France. But what difference does it make who's coming? They're both Huilo's favorites. They're both calling each other for victory. Maybe it's easier to do things together. We have to wake them up there because they're already tired of this war. Or Germany. What can youths do? Go see where the German embassy is, make a flashmob. Do the flashmob with your clean clothes today, because in a month's time, you can be on the street with your own bloody clothes. Awake, the people of Estonia! Do whatever you can. Even so, in the words [confirmation] that you support Ukraine, it is worth more than just saying that we are bickering, whether you have a tape or you don't have a tape. We already have to do a social contest between us, who is more in favour of Ukraine. We all are. But we're with different temperaments, that's what you get? Some people are more modest in dozens of times, but they have contributed significantly to non-profit institutions and organizations that do not even fit into the seven organisations of our Ministry of Finance. So, I think that everyone who does something on a daily basis will help. We must not leave Ukraine alone, we must not leave, we must remember, everyone in their own way. Thank you all so much for that! Slava Nazi! Smert voroham!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U160	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U161	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Members, Guests, if there's any left to watch us! I would like to begin by thanking the Commission, the chairman of the Commission, because, in fact, in this army, in the fog, it is crucial to talk about this issue in this Chamber. Just talk, exchange information. In life, it tends to be that these things that we don't talk about are transferred into some kind of mess in our brains, stored there and changed in their own way. I certainly thank Mikhail Lotman for the Fatherland Group. In my opinion, Mikhail, in the context of Lviv's visit, we also went to Kiev together with a pattern example of how a wise man can make clear choices, which is important, which is irrelevant. I think that, in fact, as Members of Parliament, every day, when we think about it, we should move much more of our brain cells, which is important, which is not important. Are there often places to choose from, but in fact we must act together and do our best because we never know? You never know. And it would be very hoped that we would never be in such a situation, but once again: we never know. And in these situations, if we were to get ourselves into these difficult situations, there are so many "buts" that we should have done so and should have done so. That is why it also seems to me that if we bring drafts to Parliament, either to ban sanctions or to make some kind of assessment, we will easily, lightly assess that this is some kind of political propaganda that we do not have time to deal with right now, we have to deal with something more important. But the word has power, action is important, and they must always be viewed in combination, in a situation where our neighbor has taken up the sacred purpose of killing children, women, civilians and confirming a new page of his lies in the history book. I also think the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the State Department are doing their utmost. I thought this presentation today from the representative of the NGO was excellent. One in his horror, but the other in his simplicity. Those messages, I hope so, came to us all and shook us up for action. I do not know what should happen in Europe so that this situation is actually understood. Personally, however, it seems to me that the seriousness of the situation is not fully understood and compared with well-being, with its well-being at the cost of the lives of others. I think it's a new paradigm. We're talking about humanity, we're talking about tolerance in society, we're talking about all these topics with sounding names. But of the most sacred, or life, we have been given, and we are not so simply talking about taking it away. I think we have a lot to do, Estonia still has a lot to do. The whole world has a lot to do. And I'm sure there will be a victory in this war. The people with hearts, the right people, the ones who fight for their freedoms. Unfortunately, I think it's a very long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U162	Andres, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U163	Yeah, I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U164	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U165	It seems to me that it is a very long way to go to this victory, and the horrors that we all have to endure together are even more horrifying than we can actually explain to ourselves today. To that end, I think, in the context of the additional budget and the question raised by Urmas Reinsalu [in the context], should we support NGOs from the additional budget so that they can continue their so-called guerrilla war, or action, I think it is inevitable. This is a common point for all of us in the context of an additional budget, how to contribute in addition. Thank you! Good luck to all Members. The world wins Russia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U166	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Johanna Lehtme, the Members who spoke. If we conclude now, in this situation where we are now helping Ukraine, there are three most important things, the first is that the war is not over, the need for help is growing, not shrinking, because the destruction across the country and the number of people killed are increasing. Second, the war is going into a new phase of attack in the coming days. And thirdly, which is extremely important, we here must therefore, under these assumptions, contribute more to helping Ukraine. First thing or message. I hope that there will be a call from this Chamber for greater European coordination between our government in the field of fuel, food and medicine. One of the previous speakers pointed out that the World Food Organisation was working on this globally. Doesn't deal enough. And the question is that this is also not compensated by the allocation of financial assistance to Ukraine. The Ukrainians say that because food is the greatest value now in humanitarian aid, they are willing to pay for this food if necessary. The question is that the physical delivery of long-term foodstuffs to Ukrainian territory is now the most important. And that is why it is important to call on Estonia to do so in Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a commitment to do so in the Development Assistance Council. I hope that this will materialise at European Union level as a decision that the European Commission will take responsibility for this coordination. And that means that, in order for our moral power to be stronger, we must allocate money from the state budget for permanent food deliveries to Ukraine. We have our own food reserves, and we can also buy groceries together. This is certainly a practical quick step. The second concerns the help that our NGOs need. This, too, requires that funds be allocated to them from the additional budget, as people's spontaneous donations have fallen dramatically. It's psychologically understandable. At first, people donated more than they actually did on a permanent basis. And it must actually be balanced with the support of the state. Thirdly, this obligation, a moral obligation, a legal obligation for all municipalities and public authorities to review the possibilities of aid in the form of technology, equipment, special equipment for some kind of operation. And believe me, any such information is absolutely necessary. There is a great deal in the case of a country as large as Ukraine, as well as a lack of central information. Needed, as was the case here, everything from forest fire trucks to environmental technology. It's just that the damage is so great. Certainly all state institutions have a moral obligation, this oath, which has been given in public service to the state of Estonia, tells us to act to help Ukraine to direct the resources that the state institutions have to help. And sincere recognition to those institutions who have done so voluntarily. Surely it must be recognised by the state. And surely we should recognise the people who have given this help from Estonia with some form of letter of recognition, whether by Parliament, by the government or by the President. There's nothing unnatural about it, it's genuinely sympathetic. And I'm sorry, not just the people of Estonia who have given help. The proposal is specific: our Orders should be given to senior Ukrainian military personnel for defeating their enemies under Kiev. The President of Ukraine deserves the Estonian Order for being defeated by the enemy from Kiev. If the enemy is defeated from Kiev, that is, he will not come to Tallinn. That's actually the way it is in the world right now. And what I would like to stress is what our responsibility is for these practical steps in Parliament. We certainly have a duty to make a legal assessment of the implementation of genocide in Ukraine. At the moment, in these minutes, I have received information that a statement on the definition of genocide has also been launched in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U168	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U169	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by thanking Urma and all the members of his committee for dealing with this issue and certainly all those members of the Riigikogu who, on the one hand, have shown that the Estonian Parliament cares about Ukrainians. On the other hand, thanks to all Estonian people and entrepreneurs for their clear and unambiguous commitment to supporting Ukraine for the last month and a half. I'm glad I've had a little help, too. The message just came that the car has been handed over on the Polish border to protect and support the Ukrainians' struggle with the aggressor. One day I thought that a country and a head of state could kill thousands of people, have their soldiers rape women and children and innocent citizens just to kill bullets in the back of the head. Many may have forgotten 2001 and September 11 when the twin tower planes crashed into America. What a chase! This has not happened right now. It's very clear: someone has nukes and the understanding that he can do anything. But I think that today the whole world should still be very clear that these are acts against humanity. Those responsible for these acts must be court-martialed. They must be judged. And they should have the daily knowledge that at one point their hour of trial will come, where they will have to give responsibility to the people of the world. Before February 24, did anyone believe that such a situation could occur at all? Fear was, but the hope was greater that in today's world Europe there would be no war. We have seen that the same Ukrainian war has not begun on 24 February. And I am sad to say that we were discussing here yesterday a bill that came from the government and it was not clear that this war had been going on for years. In my opinion, all these rallyings, on the one hand, strengthen morally, but on the other, it is clear that the whole world, which wants peace and the protection of people's lives, should very clearly support Ukraine with all its means. We listen every night to the Ukrainian President's appeal to his people, which is, in fact, the appeal to the whole world. This courage, this pride, is something that could in all of us create in our hearts [the question] whether we are prepared for what Ukraine is prepared for. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U170	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U171	When the last survey revealed that one in ten men in Estonia are ready to defend their homeland, there was a feeling that we had failed to do anything in our homes and school education. Of course, every person's life is priceless and no one wants to go to war with a gun, risking their lives. At the same time, we should all stand up for our home, our family, our country. We hope that this will not have to be done, but that there will also be peace in Ukraine in the near future, which is difficult to believe. But as they say, hope dies last. You have to hope. Once again, I want to thank all the waitresses and especially the last waitress with her emotions and everything. I want to acknowledge all the people and entrepreneurs in Estonia who have helped to ensure that the Ukrainians can defend their country fairly, supported them. And I hope that the Estonian Government will not only talk about hundreds of millions of national defence and support, but will actually do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-12_U172	Thank you. No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The debate is closed. Before we extended the agenda until this item was exhausted, so we will continue with the next items tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
