ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good manager! The Estonian Conservative People's Party presents a draft amendment to the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act. And even though you may have the media coverage of the census, perhaps the headlines have given you the impression that our population situation has improved, a little while reading from the title, it turns out that this impression is not [right]. Even compared to the 2011 census, the proportion of people born in Estonia has fallen by 0.5%, the proportion of Estonian citizens by 0.5%, the proportion of Estonians by 0.6% and the ratio of native speakers to 1.5%. And these are the changes of the last ten years. But the balance of migration has just increased in the last four years and the natural growth of Estonians is negative. According to data from Statistics Estonia, there is no doubt that the immigration of Estonia in recent years, apart from Ukrainian refugees, has grown to such an extent that this situation must be characterised as mass immigration. There is no doubt, therefore, that in recent years the share of Estonian-speaking people and the share of Estonians has decreased sharply, and with the legislative changes now adopted in May, this trend was further enhanced. With our own draft, we direct labour migration to a highly skilled workforce in the interests of the development of our economy, restrict the possibilities of using universities as a migration pump and, basically, stop the decline in the share of Estonians in our own country. That's right, we can stop it for now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is, of course, a long way to go to 85% of the Prime Minister still in office or expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U3	I don't see any more wishes. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do a presence check, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U4	67 Members of the Riigikogu signed up to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U5	Now our agenda today. Today, there is a point on the agenda, a debate on the important national issue of the "Inflation Crisis in Estonia" initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. In the course of this debate, we have three presentations: first the chairman of the special committee Urmas Reinsalu, then the Governor of Eesti Pank Madis Müller and finally the economic expert Raivo Vare. The procedure will look like this: all reports will be 20 minutes, followed by a round of questions and answers, followed by 30 minutes after all reports. A member of the Riigikogu may submit a single question to each rapporteur and there will be negotiations after the presentations, where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak, but the initiator of the debate has proposed that the representatives of the political groups first receive the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The initiator of the debate has also asked that, if the agenda item is not exhausted by 1 p.m., we extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. That's what we'll have to vote for when we get there. But now we will begin the debate and ask Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U6	A respectable representative of the people! From the point of view of the Estonian economic environment, the livelihood of the Estonian people, there is currently no bigger problem than international, global, high inflationary pressures, which are particularly amplified in Estonia. Last week, on Tuesday, Eurostat reported that Estonia's inflation rate was 20.1% over the reference period, while it was uncompetitive in Europe. This morning, Statistics Department has provided fresh information. They estimate that during the reference period May 2021 versus May 2022 consumer prices have increased by 20%, including electricity [expensed] 146.3%, thermal energy 61.2%, gas 217.3%, total goods 15.7% and services 28.8%. In view of Estonia's [population] revenue quintiles, it is important to have this information that, in comparison with OECD countries, the share of food and energy products in the consumer basket is highest in the poorest income quintile, or one fifth of the population, reaching almost 50%. It is also relatively high compared to other OECD countries, but nearly twice as low on the most [rich] revenue quintile. This [all] has a number of objective reasons for our latitude in relation to our high price level for food and energy products, but in reality this means that inflation hits the poorest profit group, the lowest profit quintile. And if we look at the impact of inflation on energy carriers, or housing, then [we see] the impact of housing-related inflation is estimated by Statistics Estonia to be close to 40% in consumer prices. The purpose of the current debate on an exceptional issue of national importance is first to hear the Governor of Eesti Pank's overview of inflation, because as a member of the European Central Bank at macro level, Eesti Pank is responsible for price stability in Estonia. The Governor of Eesti Pank will certainly give an overview of the reasons for inflation both in Estonia and in the international context, as well as the circumstances that Eesti Pank is considering as a member of the European Central Bank in order to reduce inflationary pressures. Secondly, we will listen to the independent economic expert Raivo Vare, his assessments of current inflation and the need to act. In addition, I would like to emphasise that this place in this Parliament must be a platform, a forum for all political forces to provide their own assessment of how inflationary pressures can first be alleviated according to the logic of living and, secondly, how inflationary pressures can be alleviated, be it in a pan-European approach, in an international approach, but also, of course, with the measures at the disposal of our country. The Special Committee on State Budget Control conducted a hearing in connection with the inflation crisis, to which Ülo Kaasik, Vice-President of the Bank representing Eesti Pank, Rauol Lättemäe, Head of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kadri Klaos, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Uiga, Head of the Department of Statistics, Mr Pae, and Chief Analyst Viktoria Trasanov, Professor of Macroeconomics Raul Eamets and as independent experts Mr Indrek Neivelt and Raivo Vare were invited. In short, it must be stressed that our starting point, which we must take into account when assessing this situation, must be that inflation is not a short-term phenomenon. Several experts, as well as the Ministry of Finance, confirmed last year when we processed the state budget that inflation is only seasonal, takes place during the heating period due to energy price increases due to different causes and [probably] there is a calming of inflationary pressures. This argument is not valid at the moment. There was a consensus on this among the experts who took part in the Commission. The Ministry of Finance based its assessment on the spring forecast. As of 7 April, information has been submitted that Estonia's inflation forecast for this year is 12.7%. According to experts, this forecast may regrettably be too low, so we must also be prepared for greater inflationary pressures. The Ministry of Finance predicts that the inflation rate will develop in such a way that even if the increase in the consumer price index is 12.7% this year, the price level is expected to rise significantly in the coming years, at 2.1% and 1.2%, respectively, according to the spring forecast. But that really means what? Even in the current situation, according to a relatively more conservative inflation forecast, this means that no retreat to the price level before the previous inflation crisis will take place. According to the current better knowledge, this inflation rate has been [established] and the question is, at what time is the calming of inflation, i.e. the return to some kind of predictable normal economy situation. But this inflation leap has taken place, it is a reality. The assessments made by the Committee of Economic Experts must also bear in mind that the level we have reached at 20%, when we look at the world raw materials markets, at the energy crisis, and also at the redeployment of supply chains resulting from Russia's sanctions, must also bear in mind that we may not yet have achieved the ceiling of inflation. The pressure on raw material prices has not yet had an impact on the final prices of all products. And that's something to keep in mind. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that, if we [look at the situation] in the context of an inflationary crisis, prices will rise as demand increases according to the basic economic theoretic approach. And prices will also rise when supply decreases. And the most effective, if you take the abstract economic theory of a general axiom, is to deal with the initial causes of price increases. If demand is too high, demand growth needs to be limited. Limiting demand in the event of supply problems does not help much. Rather, opportunities should be found to increase supply. In the case of more persistent changes in demand or supply, [think] how to apply the economic structure accordingly in order to increase or replace supply of defective products. The price is currently influenced in one direction by [various] factors: rapid growth in demand in the period preceding the Ukrainian war, rapid exit from the corona restrictions, stimulus packages for the pandemic period, problems of product availability or supply, production and supply difficulties in exiting the corona restrictions, energy problems, the impact of the war initiated by Russia on commodity markets. It should be stressed that the supply difficulties initially considered temporary have proved to be long-term. It must be borne in mind that most of the current inflation agents are global. At the same time, the pressure from price increases on the competitiveness of exporting companies is lower, as raw materials and energy have also increased with competitors. Secondly, it is certainly important to bear in mind the importance of combating inflation internationally. How can the state react to price increases? Demand-restrictive policies, interest-rate increases, fiscal deficit control, supply-enhancing. A strategic fuel supply has been placed on the world market, as Estonia has done as a [participant] country in Europe. The superpowers have tried to negotiate with OPEC to increase production. In the case of more persistent and structural inflation factors, it is necessary to consider increasing supply by changing regulations and constraints, guiding the structure of the economy, promoting infrastructure investments and stimulating innovation. We must bear in mind the practical issues that we need to bear in mind, above all, in the area of rising energy prices. Firstly, the expectation that there will be what we hoped or the experts hoped for at the end of last year, and also at the beginning of the year, that future transactions will be planned by the market from autumn towards a reduction in the price of gas. There is no expectation of that today. According to the logic of future transactions, the market is making forecasts for the current heating period of spring next year [taking into account], where [gas prices in future transactions are higher] than in the previous heating period. There is a clear link, regardless of the weather and regardless of these supply issues, to our Baltic Energy Exchange. There is a clear and immediate link to this, so the assumption that we need to take into account in shaping energy prices in the next heating period is that the price pressure will be greater than that of the previous heating period that we survived. What is the political toolbox that we have at the disposal of the government and at the disposal of the state? These are two different thematic blocks, and they can actually be the opposite of their task. Let us say that the first question is how to help alleviate the impact of price increases on people. This certainly also means whether people will have more money left to cope with. This in itself will undoubtedly not reduce the level of inflation in our country as such, if [we mean] the payment of subsidies. The Government of the Republic paid approximately 165 million euros of subsidies during the previous heating period. Compared to the Member States of the European Union, I have here the data from Bruegel's think tank, which remained somewhere in the European Union at the average level, when looking at either the seasonal reduction of taxes or the payment of subsidies that this think tank added up. Greece was at the forefront, where the weather is not so cold, with over 3.5% of GDP support. Lithuania, for example, has also supported more than 3.5% of its gross domestic product. Estonia's so-called support volumes or network services and other measures with so-called financial impact remained at the level of 0.9% of gross domestic product, so that we were one of the countries with [smaller] support for gross domestic product. In the previous government in office or how to put it, the transitional or whose government was also discussing the support measures or network charging measures submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs also gave an overview of this to the Special Committee on Budget Control. They provided for the inclusion of nearly EUR 300 million of measures in the supplementary budget that Parliament was carrying out and adopted last month: partial reimbursement of district heating to domestic customers, price caps to domestic customers, price caps to domestic customers, reduction of network charges for electricity and reimbursement of network charges for gas. They were all intended for the period from October 2022 to March 2023. The order of magnitude was here, I looked at, 300 million euros, this information is known to the Commission. However, the government did not consider it necessary to include any of these measures in the additional budget. This question remains unanswered as to the government's policy regarding the compensation mechanism resulting from another price shock expected by energy carriers during the heating period. And the other side is, of course, fiscal. The Commission has at its disposal [a number of] information on how different European countries have also sought to alleviate inflationary pressures by means of fiscal policy. What did the officials of Statistics Estonia point out? Estonia stands out by the fact that all these measures, be they network charging measures, which can, in essence, be regarded as tax policy measures or support measures, were extremely short-term. They were intense in a very short time and then completely interrupted. As far as [as regards] most European countries are concerned, it must indeed be acknowledged that those countries which implemented fiscal measures did so-called "sunset" clause, i.e. with a cooling-off period, but these deadlines were considerably longer. And here is one of the reasons or problems that is our great inflationary pressure [in the background] when comparing [the situation] in our region. And certainly we must also bear in mind the pricing of monopoly companies. The Commission also dealt with this. Let me give you an example. When we were ahead of the adoption of the euro, we had the same problem with the inflation criterion as we had other macro criteria, such as budget deficits. And then only 0.5%, I remember, was the profit of Tallinn Water, which in reality was unreasonably profitable. And the government said so. I remember I drafted a bill and we passed a law on the restraint of monopolies to put a stop to this unreasonable return. And it was realised and its results are practical, expressed in tens and tens of millions of euros left to consumers. At my request, the Competition Authority prepared a statement on the impact of sharing the costs of combined heat and power generation on the price formation of district heating. According to this statement, it actually turns out that it is like two production: one is the production of heat controlled by the State at a reasonable price; the other is the production of electricity, which in the current logic is based on the stock exchange price. In fact, the Competition Authority points out the need to amend the district heating law on the principle that the method of sharing the costs of cogeneration, together with the basis for calculating the price of heat, takes into account both the interests of heat consumers and the situation on the electricity market. There is now a real situation of overcompensation. This would undoubtedly be one way of reducing inflation pressure, with a very large financial impact. Secondly, in this statement, drawn up at my request, the Competition Authority also points out the problems of over-compensation of renewable energy subsidies in the current situation. All these support schemes have been drawn up in a situation where the energy price level was quite different and, according to the Competition Authority, at present this is a question of whether it is not even unlawful State aid in this logic. So this is an overview of this debate right now. As an expert, Mr Neivelt pointed out in the debate the need for Estonia at European Union level to initiate a reform of CO2 emission units so that this would be predictable in a single level. This is undoubtedly a very important measure causing inflationary pressure on electricity. Once again, I want to emphasise that we do not have short-term inflation. Inflation is not falling back to pre-inflationary levels and inflation has not yet reached its high level in the prices of many products. As for the most important element in this inflationary portfolio, this is energy for us, we are facing a greater shock than was the last heating period. And this obviously requires planning decisions at national level, which is high time. We can undoubtedly operate on a number of scenarios, but we must be aware of the existence of these scenarios. There is no such overview at the moment. And last information: The purchasing power of the Estonian state budget has fallen to the level of 2020 compared to what our budget was like, which we adopted in December of this year. In reality, the purchasing power [thanks] to which we can buy goods and services and pay wages has fallen by more than 10% compared to what we predicted in December. This was the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance during our debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U7	Thank you. And now the questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Clearly, inflation is currently the biggest economic problem, and in this situation politicians not only in Estonia but also elsewhere have a desire to lower taxes and increase subsidies. But you're a professional committee, actually, you're dealing in depth with budget issues. Did you not consider it necessary to warn of the consequences of such a policy? Firstly, if the budget deficit increases, it will boost domestic inflation. Secondly, the budget deficit must be covered by loan money, which means that interest costs, given the change in the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, in the case of national loans, will start to rise sharply, which will lead to a new category of expenditure in the budget and, in the future, will reduce the possibility of paying subsidies. As chairman of a professional committee, did you not consider it necessary to warn against the negative effects of such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U9	Thank you. With regard to this current inflation, which I also pointed out in my report, we must bear in mind that inflation is an international phenomenon. Broadly speaking, the root causes of global inflationary pressure, which are particularly amplified in our region, are international. Therefore, [the answer to the question] is whether we can, say, offer money, so to speak, separately, or essentially reduce global inflation, or at least reduce inflation in our region, if this offer is limited, is negative. At least those experts who follow this logic think that the answer is no in reality. Of course, there is general logic, and there is no denying that this fact must be taken into account, that, figuratively speaking, if the money is less for people in Estonia, too, is it not, or the solvency, let us say, to acquire goods and services, then it will inevitably reduce inflationary pressure. But here, I think, there are three different aspects. Firstly, we have one thing: when we talk about regulated prices, regulated price levels, tax reductions will certainly contribute to reducing inflation. The same example I gave for the same Tallinn Water. When the State limited this excess profit, it actually led to a reduction in inflation pressure. The experts at the time admitted that. And in the same way, I'm sure that would happen if, for example, we solved the problem of cogeneration plants referred to by the Competition Authority. Now, the question is that there are two objectives that the country must address in parallel. One is the tools at the disposal of the State, which relate to inflation, and the effect of which is, in fact, that the inflation number is smaller. I'm looking at Eesti Pank. Here is the question of, for example, the rules on housing loans, which, I know, the bank is discussing. But the bank hasn't made any decisions, the bank says it's monitoring the decisions. We remember the previous crisis, the nature and context of which were, of course, different. However, during the last global financial crisis, I felt that it was a very legitimate criticism that the bank was too late when we were talking about the previous period. The Bank of Estonia certainly has a great responsibility, which the President of the Bank will open to us here. This is in the Estonian context. Well, the bank has already established the need for reserve buffers for our banks, these rules will enter into force at the beginning of next year. And then there are regulated prices, there are tax policy prices, which would help to reduce inflation. Now, the second question is coping and coping with people. I made a number of important points. These, taken separately, of course, do not address keeping inflation under control. On the contrary, if our money supply is higher, it is by passionate macroeconomic logic that they can, of course, speed up inflation in Estonia. There is no doubt about that. The question is whether the previous government grants of EUR 200 million or EUR 170 million paid, accelerated inflation or reduced inflation. Every economist says they were, of course, conducive to inflation. The government certainly accelerated inflation in Estonia by taking its steps. All the steps taken by the government have been speeding up inflation and, in that sense, your question is correct. The government has not taken any anti-inflationary steps. If we also look at all the steps, then the government's response to inflation has been positive additional budgets. I am not saying that there is no need for an additional budget, but we have not, of course, seen the answers to keep inflation under control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U10	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U11	Thank you. Well, inflation is screaming when we look. You did point out that this is not just our problem, but that inflation is international and affects a lot of people. Different countries have been looking for different solutions to compensate people or, rather, how to maintain their lives at the moment, we are not talking about improving, okay, we are talking about maintaining the living conditions for these various measures. Did you also discuss which direction could be more reasonable for us? Should subsidies, and as targeted as possible, help but those in need or, in the case of a global problem, try to preserve people's lives by means of tax measures? Which one of these makes more sense to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U12	Thank you. In fact, the Commission's debate was, of course, informative. Members of the Commission, as representatives of different political forces, certainly have different visions, and the political groups will probably express these visions according to their own perceptions. But I would point out a serious warning from Indrek Neivelt at the committee meeting. How can Estonia, [including] a small enterprise in Estonia - I quote - be competitive if we pay twice as much for electricity as in Sweden and, for example, 50% more than in Finland? And Indrek Neivelt continued that we have moved from some level at our prices a long time ago and that energy at this latitude is, in fact, supposedly more energy-intensive than other societies at latitudes, economic environments. It should be logical for us to have a lower relative price of energy in this situation to have competitiveness to compensate for it. But we have the situation completely backwards, so this is the situation in Reverse-Antsla. Neivelt set the challenge of [achieving] the reform of the CO2 quota in Europe. This situation is absurd, and the price increase has been amplified by the extremely strong. The Minister for Economic Affairs, who has resigned from office of our government, promised to deal with this, but we have not heard any feedback from the Commission either, once the Commission has discussed this issue. There is silence in this regard. Indrek Neivelt called for Kadri Simson to be able to integrate Ukrainian electricity into the European system in two weeks; now it could also act in the interests of Estonia and other European energy consumers. If we look at the European Commission's recommendations, the European Commission has issued recommendations on how to act. That's also the answer to what to do. The European Commission has specifically called for funds over-exploited from CO2 to be channelled into subsidies. Secondly, he also called for fiscal policy measures. The Commission communication was, of course, not aimed at narrowly reducing inflation pressure in this context, but precisely at recommending the ability of people to cope with this crisis to the governments of the Member States. The European Commission has taken energy policy steps in the field of energy sources, which in the current context have become more specifically [alas] problematic. These solutions, which were sought last autumn, have become quite secondary. They are now in the second context of the Russian war. Consider, for example, the pressure on the price of products to rise. On 16 June, in 10 days' time, a sanction on imports of timber from Russia and Belarus will enter into force in Europe. Indeed, in yesterday's debate, with surprise, our committee found that we had significantly increased imports of timber from Russia rather than decreased. And what is misleading are the claims made to the public that there is some kind of transit. No, it's not! For example, different types of timber products go out of us as pellets when we come in from Russia. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment couldn't say anything about that. All forest and timber manufacturers confirm that we do not produce timber from Russia, but that the volumes are growing. And it turns out the Ministry of the Environment doesn't have an overview of who brings the wood. Professor of Macroeconomics Eamets made recommendations to the Commission and reiterated that inflation had not stopped. Inflation is increasing [in relation to] the fact that the increase in prices of certain raw materials reaches the end products with a delay. He suggested considering a reduction in consumption taxes or indirect taxes, a reduction in excise duties, for example, which would certainly have an impact on inflation in the long term. He also pointed out this could be taken into account, for example, in the case of fixed-price packages. And certainly, in practice, there are a number of measures at the disposal of the [European] Commission, thanks to the diversity of tools used by the European countries to compare [if] internationally. Estonia stands out here by the fact that our measures were all placed on a very narrow time horizon. That is certainly one thing to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U13	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Indrek Neivelt certainly referred to the very right factor that today's CO2 quota trade has exhausted its [options] and would certainly need a fundamental overhaul. But really its impact on inflation could be Europe-wide if we implemented it across Europe. If we come to Estonia now, then indeed, we can forcefully suppress inflation if we rethink our energy, especially the principles of electricity sales. I don't think there was much talk about that in the committee, but you might want to open it up a little bit. Because indeed, if in Sweden electricity costs half as much as in Estonia, then we cannot be equal in competition in any way. In fact, we should rethink the whole electricity trade policy in order to suppress inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U15	Yeah, that's one way. Separately, there was no mention of this at the Commission meeting, but we have dealt with this in the past. The Director of the Competition Authority has presented his so-called legal and technical expertise as to whether this is the case with regard to the provision of electricity as a universal service, the sale of electricity by the dominant producer to consumers [that]. Yeah, basically it's doable. For example, electricity sold to households in France is not a stock exchange. France uses its nuclear power plants, doesn't it, sells nuclear power? Lithuania also made a decision in the current situation. In Lithuania, small consumers, households and businesses also had to switch to the stock market, but Lithuania postponed this merger, the decision to go to the stock market. If we are thinking of the electricity price leap, as it was, in a year, this price leap has been 146%, one and a half times. This is certainly not some kind of line we may not be jumping from anymore. According to experts, there are also price jumps [such] where [electricity] costs EUR 3000 per megawatt-hour. In such a situation, when we do, it is indeed paradoxical that if Narva plants produce electricity with a so-called reasonable profit at a production price of EUR 50 megawatt [-hours], in reality, it can transform [and reach] a completely different geopolitical and other market distortions, it is the price of CO2; the units of emissions trading are exponentially expensive to a level close to absolute absurdity. This situation is certainly unbearable. We can talk about it, but I don't think it's worth the exchange itself to confront the current situation. The level of the exchange price has brought us a victory for years, has also been relatively lower in price levels, hasn't it? But in changed circumstances, in such an extraordinary context, we need to be prepared to make mobile sanity decisions, because we have very strongly paralyzed the normal functioning of the free market. Countries and the European Union are making completely free decisions of market economy logic, such as war sanctions against Russia. They are well-founded and we support them and call for them to be more intensive. This means, however, that speaking only about the market logic that should resolve the situation is deeply deceptive in the current war situation, the war situation. This is what Mr Vare warns us about, and this is what he does in his report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U16	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I looked at the title of today's meeting, "Inflation from the crisis," written apart, I honestly did not understand what you mean at first. But now that you've broken the subject, I've got questions. After all, the price level is a balance in the market: on the one hand, the goods and services offered, on the other hand, the money on the market. And inflation is an adjustment if, on the one hand, more goods and services come or, on the other hand, more money is issued or interest is taken away. How do you imagine adapting or cutting inflation if you put more money on the market by cutting taxes and increasing subsidies? It's like throwing logs in a fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U18	Thank you. Yes, I agree, but the solution to the inflationary crisis of throwing such logs into a fire was proposed by the government, which actually provided only for a package of subsidies. As I said, these hundreds of millions of euros certainly amplified this inflation crisis. It is a serious problem that the ability and ability of our economy to make rational decisions on this basis, especially in a crisis situation, is actually fragile to a very critical surface. And this is certainly a problem in itself, which is also a problem of our economic security. I absolutely agree with that, it is impossible to deny it. It is the economic logic that, when subsidies are increased, this autonomously leads to an increase in inflationary pressure. Yes, the answer is yes, of course. At the same time, however, we must realise that the causes of this inflation and the so-called macro-level perspective of inflation do not depend on one or the other decisions taken within Estonia. It was a global phenomenon that has indeed been amplified and especially amplified in Estonia in our region. We are in the world or, well, I'm not saying in the world, I'm saying at European level, as the statistics show, champ. And there are a number of factors behind this. But when we look at it, experts also pointed out that the inflationary pressures in the Baltic countries are actually moving in the same rhythm. True, Estonia's is the largest. The experts pointed out that the reason is that Estonia's measures to ease inflation were very short-term in comparison with Latvia and Lithuania. It also highlighted the fact that Latvia and the [other] countries have a different share of fixed packages. [For example] Lithuania is not actually part of this Nord Pool stock exchange; Lithuania's domestic customers are not [related]. This is certainly a separate element that makes our situation different and justifies or explains the higher inflation rate in Estonia as a percentage. So our situation is that inflation is stable, inflation is not falling, but that inflation is increasing in the short term, and there will be more chaos and disaster in the next heating period than was the case during this heating period. These are short conclusions from the reports. What measures can be taken to alleviate people's problems? As I said, the government discussed this, but did not consider it justified to include any measures in the additional budget. And this is certainly a factor that affects people's livelihoods. Another aspect is the [what] tax policy measures and regulatory measures could be. Some fiscal measures certainly reduce inflation, some fiscal measures may be neutral and may also speed up inflation, depending on their type. There are also regulatory measures. I mentioned, for example, the problem of the so-called over-compensation of cogeneration plants, which was highlighted by the Competition Authority. But we have now moved so that, if we also look at the price of services, there is also a psychological phenomenon of inflation [in the back]. As we know, much of the economy still depends on the psychology of people-to-people relationships. The price of services is going to rise more than they actually have more energy in the current period. This is what we see for any service, and this is only in the first acceleration phase. Such an inflation spiral can start to grow very quickly, and this is undoubtedly a serious concern taken separately. And there should certainly be a signal from the state that [must] be responsible for monetary policy. This must certainly be borne in mind. Moreover, a review of the costs of government administration is necessary. In the current inflation logic, perhaps it is right to answer the question of state reform. These things have been constantly talked about, but if we can narrow down the costs of public administration in this whole crisis, I think it would be a positive one for the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U19	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U20	Thank you. I am not an economic expert, but I am cautious when it comes to inflation as a phenomenon of its own, which must be combated by various measures. For me, inflation is an indicator. Like a fever in a person: if there is a high fever, it shows that a person is sick. But it doesn't [mean] that fever is a disease, on the contrary, it shows that a person is alive. If he dies, there's no fever. The same for the economy: inflation is a sign of life. And here are two basic strategies. One is to die by means of fiscal methods. What do you mean by fiscal methods? Raise taxes that will die for the economy, or vice versa, to revive the economy, above all export, and thereby combat inflation. And I say again: the problem is not so much inflation as poverty. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So, do we enrich or, on the contrary, do we take austerity measures? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U21	Not with such an intellectual perspective, I'd say. But the right thing is that inflation is, of course, a so-called indicator or a symptom of a number of circumstances. At the beginning of my presentation, I mentioned all the circumstances concerning the supply of products in the corona situation. But there are undoubtedly two separate regulatory issues that have affected this inflation. One is, in fact, the political decisions made to move towards a more intensive green turn. There's no point in denying that. This perspective is a fact. The carbon trade came to us as an important component last autumn with a so-called surprising shock and also with a speculative shock. And there was, in fact, a discussion in the Commission as to whether this was perhaps also speculation by Russian agents in order to trigger this European price crisis in the run-up to the war. And the second is, of course, the issue of the Russian war. When we are talking about how to implement all the regulatory [decisions] that we are currently making in the sanctions policy and we need to apply more in order for Ukraine to win this war, one important measure of inflationary pressure [reduction] is, of course, to deliver Putin to a new court in Nuremberg or Butša or some other name, before an international tribunal. If Putin falls, it will certainly be very important to reduce inflation by removing him from power or leaving life on earth in the near future. The end of the war, not the confusing compromise truce, but the end of the war with the victory of Ukraine, is certainly a very, very important fact which [must be sought].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U22	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! There's a saying that everyone looks at how he gets. This morning, the television morning program talked about the same subject, and it sounded about last winter's energy prices: "We hope that the people have learned from it. " How do you comment: Was that a good lesson? Will we have an exam or a new, even better lesson in the new winter? How much more study does it take to learn, and how much more can you learn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U24	I would say this so that it reminded me of those individuals, whether political responsibility holders or senior officials, who also shared words of instruction with the people during the previous heating period so that they should be saved. So what did you do with the electricity? Do as the advice was, eat at night. But I'm sorry, [on the suggestion] that you have to cook at night, fry chicken, revealed an amazing fact, as we heard about the Eesti Energia package: the fact that I fryed chicken at night, did not [give] any victory, did not affect my [electricity bill] decrease. It was just that the entire Estonian people were fooled. Thank you. Thanks were said, didn't they, to the people of Estonia? They made a fool out of it. We fried chicken at night or who did laundry at night, didn't we, but what did Eesti Energia tell us, the dominant company? And the country is like a boar in rye, both as a regulator and owner. We'll sort it out by the end of the year. By the end of the year, maybe we can work it out!? Very nice! In my opinion, all those people who shared lessons from high positions in order to save savings, I did not see these institutions themselves saving their own administration costs. They taught the people of Estonia, the taxpayers, to stick together in your life, but people who have difficulties in coping learn themselves can save themselves. Well, there must certainly be consumption advice on both packages and how to economise your activities. But the same Olympus rulers who taught the people that the solution was austerity did not start a negative budget in our government, for example, to reduce the costs of governance. No! No savings! The state still worked on the basis of this regular budget. So don't follow my actions, follow my words. It seemed to me that such a taste fell through those calls. And, unfortunately, the situation is as I said when I answered the previous questions: it will be worse than it was last winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U25	We can take one more question. Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You seem to have an excellent grasp of the subject, which is why I dare ask you. What do you think is a uniform and generous distribution of subsidies? And what is its impact on inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U27	Thank you. I think that the distribution of grants must be national, it must be established by law. I'm sorry, how did we get subsidies in the winter? Raivo, do you hear me as an old state law expert? The government distributed subsidies under the Air Protection Act. Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank, as far as I know, we have the rule that the legislator makes a budget, shares money, but it turns out that money is distributed at once on the basis of the Air Protection Act! When the separation of powers was discussed and Montesquieu lived, no one had ever heard of such a law. But why did the American civil war begin? [Whispering] Right to impose taxes, right to make your own budget, right. And now it turns out that this law on atmospheric air protection was the valve through which this right slipped away from Parliament. As far as this generosity is concerned, the previous period's measures in European countries were extremely costly and, in European terms, this [our] 0.9% of GDP, of course, as I said, was not [though great]. If compared, in European countries it was [a indicator] ranging from 0.5% to 3.5% of GDP. Well, our 0.9% position was there, who thinks in the middle, who maybe in one third of the lower part. I think that these subsidies must be analysed rationally and must not simply be a trading venue for simple political arbitrage. After all, we saw that these numbers, the rates of benefits rose to random, they were just like this... Politicians wrote one number this morning, then wrote another number, and so it was. It reminded me that yesterday in the Commission, we listened to the volume of logging, didn't we? Tõnis Mölder wrote one smaller number, then Erki Savisaar came and wrote 24.6% more on cutting volumes and the officials said: a pristine pristine. They just said we were sorry, the boss gave one order, we wrote one number, the boss gave another order, we wrote another number, and everyone's good numbers. But imagine that every fourth tree stays in the forest, or it doesn't. I think there's a difference. And everything is evidence-based, everything is science-based. I think there might be less political arbitrage, especially in a crisis situation. We need quick decisions, clear decisions that have an impact. And, of course, every influence has an impact. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Of course, every time we distribute support, this money supply also leads to inflation, which I do not deny in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U28	Thank you. Now the question-and-answer time is over. I ask for the next speech chair by Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U29	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased once again, now with a weekly frequency, to be before you and to speak specifically about inflation in Estonia and Europe in this case. [I want to] open the way we see the main reasons for today's rapid price increase in Eesti Pank, which the central bank is doing in this regard and also what the economic policy options of the government and the Riigikogu are to take to mitigate the impact of the price increase. My conclusions and comments today are similar to those that I expressed a week ago when introducing the annual report of Eesti Pank, but today there is a chance to go a little more deeply on issues specifically concerning price increases. I also have some drafts in the background to illustrate my speech. To begin with, as Mr Reinsalu explained and emphasised, as a context, it is useful to know that really, rapid price increases are not only a problem for Estonia and such a unique phenomenon, but really price increases have been rapid throughout Europe and, in fact, even more broadly, in most countries in the world. This figure shows that, while the euro area has recorded high prices, the latest figures show an increase of around 8%, it has been even faster in the United States and, for example, in the United Kingdom. However, in the case of Estonia, we know that the price increase has significantly exceeded the average for Europe and the euro area over the last year. For example, in May, the price increase in Estonia was 20% compared to a year earlier, while in the euro area as a whole it was 8.1%. There are also April numbers in this figure, for which there were even more details as of yesterday. We know that today, Statistics Estonia published May statistics. But here we can see that there are basically three factors which have generally led Estonia's price increase to higher than the euro area average. First of all, the increase in energy prices in Estonia has been much faster. It can also be seen that a large part, almost half of Estonia's price increase as a whole, is really due to the increase in energy prices. The reason why the increase in energy prices in Estonia has been relatively faster is also due to the structure of the Estonian market: the price changes on the world market are reaching consumers much faster, both in the case of electricity and gas prices. For example, according to April data, the annual change in gas prices in Estonia was 218%, compared with 52% in the euro area as a whole. For electricity, the corresponding numbers are 119% and 32%. And heating in Estonia was 59% more expensive than a year earlier, compared with 27% in the euro area as a whole. So that's the first reason. The second, which is important and amplifies the problems mentioned above, is that the structure of the basket varies as an average in Estonia and the euro area. Energy and food prices in Estonia account for a relatively larger proportion of total human expenditure. Third, which is also important: Estonia's overall economic situation has been relatively better than the euro area as a whole. We have recovered faster than the pandemic crisis, and consequently domestic demand, which creates additional price pressures, has been relatively stronger in Estonia. Now a little bit more to illustrate the differences between shopping baskets in Estonia and the euro area. This figure shows that food and energy clearly account for a larger share of the total expenditure of Estonian people: we then have 26% of food, in the euro area 21% on average, in the case of energy we have 16% compared to 11% in the euro area. At the same time, the share of services in total expenditure in Estonia is relatively small. It tends to go hand in hand with incomes, wealth gains, that people spend relatively more money on different services. I guess we're actually on our way that way. In addition to this momentary picture of the difference in the average price increase between Estonia and the euro area in recent months, it is interesting to look at such historical dynamics. First of all, this difference between the average of the euro area and the price increase in Estonia has been rugged to a record large extent. In May, there was a difference of almost 12% between the price increase in Estonia and the price increase in the euro area. The figure shows once again what has already been emphasised: that a large part of it comes from energy prices, as well as from food prices. But once again, it is important to understand that the increase in the price of industrial goods and various services is relatively faster in Estonia, which indicates strong demand. And that is what is part of the price pressure that can also be affected, for example, by budgetary policy. It is also important to understand, I would say, two aspects. This longer difference between the price increase in Estonia and the average price increase in the euro area needs to be seen. As long as we have income growth clearly faster in Estonia than in the euro area on average, and that is what we have seen over the years, it is to be expected that Estonia's price increase will also be somewhat higher than the euro area average. Of course, it should not be as much bigger than it is today. However, some difference is understandable as long as we approach the average price level in the euro area in terms of both our income and our standard of living. And the second point, which is interesting and is very clear from this figure: Estonian prices are generally more flexible than in the larger countries of the euro area. For example, prices in Estonia fell on average only in 2020; they did not do so in Europe. From this figure, the negative difference between the euro area price increase and Estonia's is also evident. Perhaps there have also been situations where the price increase in Estonia has been slower than the average for the euro area, and in this history we also see a time when there has been a fall in prices in Estonia, while the euro area has not been seen on average. Now, taking such a long-term perspective from the perspective of the average consumer and the Estonian person, the purpose of this drawing is not to try to reduce the current really difficult price increase situation, but simply in context terms it is, I think, useful to understand what today's rapid price increase means to people's purchasing power and how the purchasing power of Estonian people has changed in history. We see that today, where, true enough, wages and other incomes are also growing relatively quickly compared to Europe versus Estonia, the price increase is even faster. The purchasing power of people this year will be reduced by 4 to 5% in this respect. But in context terms, it is good to know that in the last ten years, the real purchasing power of people in Estonia has increased by around 55% on average, by 11% over the last three years. And we can expect to dig ourselves out of the fall of this year for a year or a little longer. At the same time, of course, it must be said that not all people feel either this average increase in prices or the increase in income. And, of course, coping is more difficult for people in Estonia who have lower than average incomes and who, as a result, are likely to make up most of the family's budget for energy and food. Now, however, what central banks are doing and have done, and what we can expect central banks to do in the near future. First of all, the historical impact of monetary policy on inflation in Europe. There has been a lot of talk here about how large-scale bond purchases, for example, have provided the basis for faster price increases. I think it should be interpreted a little bit more nuanced. Indeed, since 2014, the European Central Bank has tried to boost the euro area economy by channelling additional money into the economy through the purchase of bonds. This mechanics works as follows: The central bank buys bonds from commercial banks, the commercial bank receives money, and the expectation is that commercial banks in turn lend the same additional money to businesses and people, thereby boosting the economy and indirectly driving price increases. We can see that, for a very long time, the bond purchase programme did not have such a clear impact on inflation or even on low interest rates directly. But we have now really come to a point where various factors, such as the sudden increase in energy and problems in supply chains for geopolitical reasons, a relatively fast renewable economy, but also a mild monetary policy for central banks, have really led to very rapid increases in prices. Of course, this means that the central bank also needs to react and start changing such a very gentle monetary policy. It is interesting to compare the experience of the euro area with that of other countries where the central bank's policy is similar if you look at the so-called "printing" effect of bond purchases or national languages, which is reflected in the central bank's view as well as in the growth of the central bank's balance sheet. An example is the United States and the United Kingdom. In fact, Japan could also be added here, which would make this picture even clearer. It can be said that there is no clear correlation between the growth of the central bank's balance sheet and the rise in prices. The balance sheet of the European Central Bank is relatively larger than, for example, the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve of America or the Central Bank of the United Kingdom as a ratio to their economies. At the same time, we do have strong price pressures lately, but lower than in these two countries. I am not saying that the central bank policy would have had no impact on price increases. But we should not, either, draw direct conclusions by oversimplifying them. In addition to this example of Estonia, we are, of course, part of the euro area and participate in the implementation of the common monetary policy of the European Central Bank and other central banks of the euro area, but Eesti Pank has purchased considerably less bonds from the Estonian government or Estonian banks than several other euro area [central banks] have done in their own country. But as a result, price increases in Estonia are not lower, but rather, as we well know, on the contrary. So the factors that affect the price increase are much more. However, what appears to be the last year's figures is that, especially in the United States, but also in the United Kingdom, where fiscal policies have been much more relaxed and subsidies have been distributed much more widely to both companies and people, price pressures are already clearly much stronger today. And I think that this could be a warning or a sign of danger to Estonian policy-makers, who need to think about how and to whom to try to provide relief under the conditions of price increases, so that the problem of price increases does not, on the other hand, make the problem of price increases worse. Now a bit more theoretical in terms of context and assessing what are the possible reasons for persistently rapid price increases. On behalf of Eesti Pank, we have also noted that we should be on guard so that we do not have a spiral of price and wage increases, which may eventually lead to the loss of competitiveness for the Estonian economy and businesses, and this in turn would inevitably be followed at some point by a steeper recession and a fall in incomes. This is the first possible scenario. The second one, which should certainly be concerned about in Estonia, is overly soft fiscal policy, which, through additional demand, creates new price pressures. I think it's a threat you should be on your guard for. And once again, the central bank of course has to do its own. The third risk is that if the monetary policy of the central banks is too lenient for too long, it will, of course, create price pressures on its own through excessive money supply. Now, over the last ten years, there have been a number of global factors that have pushed the price increase to a lower level. For example, globalisation, the relocation of production to Asian countries, where it has been possible to produce relatively more favourably and in increasing volumes. This trend is likely, if you look out, to have less effect than not to turn around. Digitalisation has kept prices for many services and products lower. This trend may continue. If there was also a problem over the last ten years that the overall demand in the economy was too low, leading to rather squeaky economic growth and also very slow price increases, it would seem rather that we should not worry about it. Finally, the relatively low energy prices that we have enjoyed in recent years up to last year, it can be said that there is a high probability that this trend is now changing and indeed energy prices are likely to remain rather high in the near future. Now, before I get to my conclusions and to my economic policy choices to mitigate the impact of price increases, [I note] one key question is whether we have reason to consider high prices temporary. In fact, as Mr Reinsalu emphasised, we cannot expect prices to fall again and these high prices will be a temporary phenomenon. If they were temporary, it would, of course, be relatively easier to argue that tax policy, for example, can provide temporary relief for consumers. But we really have no reason to believe that energy and food prices will fall back as low as they have been in recent years. Price increases are likely to slow down, but, looking ahead, I think we should assume that price levels will continue to remain high. That is why we are not dealing with a short-term problem at the moment, and I do not think it makes sense to talk about, for example, short-term tax cuts. But if we now realise that this is a long-term problem and we need long-term solutions, it is really important to assess their longer-term cost as well, so that the state's revenues and costs can still collapse. Finally, the possibility of controlling price increases in Estonia. First of all, as a central bank, we realize that we have to do our part. But, unfortunately, through monetary policy, we can only make our decisions at the level of the euro area as a whole, and in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, the decision is, of course, based on the average economic performance of the euro area. The situation in Estonia may differ from the average, as we see today. However, of course, the development of some anchor in Europe will also create for Estonia. Secondly, it is important to understand at national level that we have additional tools to ensure economic stability. It is primarily [to be performed] through the state budget, and these levers are truly in your hands. I think it is important to understand that today, if the Estonian economy as a whole is not in recession, such additional costs and exemptions financed by loans could dangerously create additional pressure for price increases. And finally, tax cuts. Indeed, as I have already mentioned, temporary tax reductions would be a reasonable way of offering relief in my opinion if we had reason to believe that high prices, be they fuel prices or food prices, are temporary. However, this is rather not the actual situation, and I therefore think that the tax cuts which, in fact, are equivalent in public finances than the granting of aid to all people who pay a specific tax may not be the best measure to alleviate the problem of price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U30	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U31	President of the sitting! Good waitress, thank you very much for your substantive review. In the Eesti Pank report last year, you stressed that the economic impact of the war that Russia was unleashed was still early to assess. This primary impact is reflected in even more expensive prices for gas, oil and other raw materials. I ask: what can be the long-term impact on the economy and when will we begin to perceive them here in Estonia and throughout Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U32	Thank you. This is, of course, a good and important question when the impact of the war initiated by Russia, other than rapid price increases, will be clearer to the Estonian economy. The first effect we have really felt is that energy prices have increased, food prices have increased. This, too, is actually associated with the ongoing war. But certainly the overall economic impact of the war is, of course, negative and somewhat slowing down the pace of economic growth. However, if the question is whether this could lead to economic recession or extensive problems in Estonia, we do not think so. This ultimately means that Estonia's economic growth is somewhat slower than it would otherwise have been. The problems are certainly relatively greater for businesses in some sectors of the economy, which have been in closer trade relations with Russia, but also with Ukraine or Belarus, which are relatively less important as trading partners. However, as a whole, data for at least the first quarter of this year show that from the perspective of companies, this relatively rapid increase in input prices has still been able to pass on to their sales prices. The prices of many of the products exported by Estonian companies have also increased on the world market. So, in fact, Estonian companies have, at least so far, been doing relatively well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Madis Müller! In your presentation, you have said such a clear truth that, if fiscal policy is more relaxed, the price increase will be higher. This is a logical conclusion, and there is also food for thought for Estonia. My question is theoretical. Suppose someone throws into the political debate such a topic that the Estonian state would take a billion euros in loans, and we can solve a lot of problems at the same time. What do you say in that case? Other countries are borrowing and Estonia is not burdened as much. What is your answer on this subject today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U35	First of all, the Estonian state has already taken a lot of loans. It cannot be said that in recent years we have behaved in a very different way from other European countries. [To think of] the financial choices of our state in the near future and beyond, we are in a situation where the Estonian economy was actually in a very good position until the end of last year. Now it can no longer be said that we have the economic boom here, but it is clear that the Estonian economy is not in a recession that requires further economic recovery by the state with loan money. There is a very high risk that the additional financing of public investment or expenditure with loan money will simply create additional price pressures and make the inflation problem even greater for us. On the other hand, it is reasonable to consider that interest rates are generally on the rise and have already risen in order to think a little further ahead. Large-scale lending still clearly means an additional burden on the Estonian state in the future, for example, in the form of larger interest payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U36	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank. At the end of your report, you said very rightly that tax reductions could be considered when there is reason to believe that energy prices are temporary, but they are not. And then you offered to use precisely targeted subsidies instead. But what do you mean? What do you mean, subsidies? I myself would suggest that, in contrast to financial support, investment grants could be offered through the budget, as the share of heating costs in the consumption basket is higher than in the euro area on average. In fact, instead of or in addition to or counterbalanced by financial direct payments, investment grants for renovation of apartment buildings, renewable energy and energy should be increased aggressively. What kind of grants did you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U38	I really wasn't that specific in my recommendations, I don't want to be so specific. Rather, my general message was that, on the one hand, I understand that, of course, for everyone, the current rapid increase in prices in Estonia is a problem, but this problem is much higher for people on low incomes whose total expenditure on energy and food costs, which have been particularly high, accounts for the majority of the family's budget. That is why this group is facing the biggest problems in Estonian society. And there is no reason to believe that high energy and food prices are a temporary problem, but a problem for the coming months. Therefore, the solution cannot be a very temporary tax relief or tax reduction. While we are already thinking about how and to whom different types of support can be offered, for example, to renovate buildings and make them more energy efficient, I think that the more precise we can target it precisely for the social group with the greatest problems, I think that the criterion, above all, for direct subsidies is really people's income, the greater support we can provide as a country to these people. Otherwise, this very broad support will simply be distributed between such a large number of people that a relatively small proportion of it will reach the real ones in need. But in addition to direct financial support, it is certainly reasonable for everyone, but also for the country, to consider how to improve energy efficiency through different programmes, take steps and use various support measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U39	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U40	Thank you, Mr Müller, for this presentation. I would ask you that you spoke about the fact that the share of energy and food in the structure of the Estonian consumer basket is significantly higher than the average in the euro area. In a person's view, in a person's view, it's definitely a problem. Do you think that this is a problem in the financial perspective of the state? And if so, what to do? There are two ways of helping people: to increase incomes or to reduce prices. But I understand you didn't recommend either here right now. This, of course, means a very big problem for a person. Or are you suggesting any such measures? Should you consider, for example, saying that demand is likely to increase over time, and there is no such very low demand anymore, that suddenly the money should be collected from the market and taxed by people who may have too much money to channel it into free consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U41	Thank you for a good question. The beginning of the question was whether the difference between the cart itself was a problem. I wouldn't treat this as a problem, it's just a fact. In time, also in conjunction with the improvement of the average wealth and purchasing power of the Estonian people, as was evident from one of these figures, the structure of the spending of Estonian families has actually changed. Years ago, the share of such compulsory expenditure, energy costs and food costs was much higher than it is today. However, we have already come quite close to the euro area average, although not quite there yet. But it is also reasonable to consider these differences when considering possible different steps of assistance, to whom exactly the state would provide this support. I have shown you the average numbers and it is clear that, in fact, for people with lower incomes, this problem is relatively much higher, as the cost of compulsory expenditure is a larger proportion of their total expenditure. I'm not saying the state shouldn't do anything. Probably should, but then the question is, how can we be the most supportive to the people who need it most? I think that is a consideration that could be taken into account. As far as different taxation is concerned, it is already a matter of purely political choices as to how the state collects money into the budget. I would not like to express a position here on behalf of the central bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U42	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. I'm trying to fit two questions. Aivar Sõerd asked about the energy efficiency of buildings. In this respect, I ask whether, in the opinion of Eesti Pank, each budget [of the current] cost euro is equivalent to [the others] or indeed, one thing is to share cash or not collect money through VAT differences or excise cuts, but another is, for example, investment in building renewable energy capacities and improving the energy efficiency of buildings, which in the long term will actually lead us in the right direction. And the other is the question of humor. Indeed, the Board states very clearly that fixed costs must be covered with constant revenue. You also say that tax reductions could be considered when we have reason to believe that price increases are temporary. It's all rational, right talk. But this price increase of record slots hit us at a very bad time in the year before the elections, where all they want in this Chamber is to give money and pay taxes, no one wants to talk about tax increases. Couldn't the Board change its rhetoric and choose the dumbest money-sharing proposals... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U44	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U45	... enemies of public finances and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U46	Thank you for the good questions. First of all, the first question was whether Eesti Pank considered all state expenditure to be equivalent or with the same effect. Not really. Also, given the quantitative impact of the budget deficit, such as the increase in prices, it is very difficult to express it precisely in figures, because it really also depends on where this money is spent. The more directly the money spent by the state reaches consumption in Estonia, the greater its impact on price increases. Therefore, there really is a difference between buying foreign defence equipment, which does not actually reach the Estonian economy so directly, and distributing support to the Estonian people in a way that really gets into consumption relatively soon. The latter clearly has a greater impact on price increases. I think that was the answer to question one. Fortunately, the second question was directed more towards the Fiscal Council, and I am not the Fiscal Council. The way they draw their own conclusions and who they give different titles, I'd still leave it to them to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U47	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have used today the expression that inflation is one of the causes of the pandemic crisis. By the way, many people use the same term. But I can say that the pandemic crisis did not cause any rise in inflation, but it was the specific people, or governments, who took decisions to restrict entrepreneurship, freedom of movement and so on. At this point in time, a decision has come from the Tallinn Administrative Court, according to which the Estonian Government has violated at least 12 fundamental rights in the sense of the Constitution. Therefore, we cannot talk about the causes of inflation, not by the corona apandemia, but by the decisions of the government. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U49	Thank you for your question. Speaking of the impact of the pandemic on the economy and prices, I think it is accurate, in principle, to say that, above all, the economic activity was really affected by the different constraints which governments were forced to impose on the activities of businesses, as well as on the movement of people. Of course, this affected consumption, the lives of businesses and people. I agree with that. On the other hand, we actually saw that people themselves changed their behaviour. And in a situation where there was no information about exactly how this virus would spread and how contagious it could be and what the consequences could be, people voluntarily corrected their behaviour, their purchasing and consumption habits. So, actually, I think that this effect, however, appeared in a number of channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U50	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U51	Thank you. Mr President, I understand your need not to make very specific recommendations, but that is what we are here for, in fact, to understand the specificity in the same way. A large part of this hall does not understand [the same], and there is certainly still a great deal of opposition to your recommendations. That is why I am asking: do you have any disagreements on inflation with Kaspar Oja, who explains very clearly that if the price increase is caused by the shortage of goods and supply difficulties compared to the mass of money, it must not be subsidised by specific goods, whether by reducing consumption taxes or otherwise? There are other mechanisms to control inflation in this case. Do you agree with this position of Kaspar Creek?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U52	Yeah, I agree with that logic. Kaspar Oja is also one of the leading economists of Eesti Pank, among other things, in addition to the office of the President's Economic Adviser, so we have discussed these issues in the bank. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U54	Good manager! Mr President, I'm not a specialist in this area, but I love reading the writings of people who know. And Paul Krugman, Nobel laureate is the one I've read a lot again in the last few days. According to Krugman, last year the White House Council of Economic Advisers said that current inflation is similar to that of 1946 and 1948. A few days ago he wrote about it, an article titled "Perverse inflation policy." He's gonna pick up who's the one with the most perverted politics. This country is Estonia, which runs this line 20,... %. He points out that in France this percentage is 5.8, in Germany 8.7 and so on. My question to you. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You're sitting at a table with those bank presidents in Frankfurt. How do you explain it to them, or what would you ask them? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why do we have the most perverse inflation policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U55	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U56	First of all, I have not read this commentary on the analyses referred to. I am not sure which indicators Krugman uses to assess the economic policies of different countries. But the question was how do I explain the economic situation and the price increase in Estonia to other central bank managers in Frankfurt. I guess I'll do it more or less the way I did to you here today. I think that in general, however, the reasons why we have so high price increases in Estonia are understandable. And it is also understandable that it needs to be responded to by both the central bank and we want to do so at the level of the euro area, and obviously you. And the question is, how could it be done in the smartest way possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U57	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Bank President, You've been performing here for the second time in a short time, and you're saying something like that. Thank you for a very thorough presentation. But I had this parallel that, when, during the corona crisis, political virologists, in addition to professional virologists, it seems to me that, in an inflation situation, we have political economists and real economists. Please say again, yes or, in essence, whether the measures currently proposed by political economists to reduce inflation are the right way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U59	Thank you for your question. If you try to sum up such a suggestion very briefly, the financial situation of the Estonian state will give us the background for me. It seems to me that the 3% deficit in the state budget as a ratio to GDP we have almost been able to confirm to ourselves. Looking at the prospect of the nearest few years, it seems that it is quite difficult to recoup expenditure from there. This means, speaking of the state budget, that every ten euros that the Estonian state spends are actually loan money. And in a situation where price increases are already fast, maintaining or increasing the level of spending with additional credit is certainly dangerous and could create additional pressure for price increases. However, when it comes to the tax reduction, it is actually a subsidy or, if expressed in another form, an additional need to borrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U60	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr President of the Bank. A good colleague, Mikhail Lotman, compared inflation quite well with fever. Indeed, one might say that if it is a kind of normal condition, but if [fever] grows very high in a problem, it can be fatal. If it was over 42 degrees Fahrenheit [42 ° C], a person would probably die. And apparently inflation is broadly the same. However, there are also examples in the euro area countries where tax reductions have indeed tried to suppress inflation, also in terms of energy prices. Today, not only people on poor incomes but also the middle class are under very strong pressure to cope with their energy prices. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Now, when comparing Estonia with other European countries, whether it is possible to bring any parallels here or to boil again at the edge of our pot...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U62	Good questioner, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I will tell everyone that we know that we have one minute for a question. Please, let's count on it! Good answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U63	Thank you for your question. I actually liked that comparison with Mr Lotman. The problem is not inflation in itself, but inflation is still an indicator or a consequence of other problems. We should deal with poverty, which a part of society could end up in the face of rapid price increases. And that's my recommendation, too. Indeed, part of society is certainly more vulnerable in today's situation and, in view of the limited financial opportunities that the country has, it is still necessary to try to channel this aid as much as possible there. Compared to the experiences of other countries and recent decisions, for example, I had a conversation with my German colleague just last week and it came up that the German State has also temporarily reduced taxes. He thought there was no economist in Germany who would think it was a good idea. But really, we see different ways of doing things in other countries, but I think there are a lot of things that other countries have decided in public finances, but we do not necessarily have to copy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U64	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for an interesting overview and also for conveying interesting thoughts when answering questions. My question concerns one of your claims on targeted subsidies for those who are most in trouble. Do you mean the same pattern by both state and local government? This will certainly lead to a considerable administrative burden for local authorities. And we already have one experiment, which gave an example of how the need-based support that was added to income support did not actually work. And in that case, the local social workers would not be able to deal with this very direct work, which they have in addition to other tasks, because the administrative burden is quite severe. In your report, were you [meaning] state-targeted grants, or were you thinking of local authorities as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U66	Thank you for a good question. To be honest, I really meant the general support of the state, meaning the support of both the state and the local government to the people most in need. I fully understand that deciding on such subsidies and the administrative side of their distribution is a problem in itself and must make sure that it does not get too complicated. And if this support comes through municipalities, then of course it is also necessary to provide appropriate support to local governments. But I'm not closely enough involved in local government work to be able to make very good recommendations here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U67	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you again for a very interesting presentation. Last time, it was also mentioned here that since this base is currently high, inflation is April compared to April, May compared to May, it is slowing down purely as a result of the base. But now this year, there are such large money supply increases, such as large subsidies to overcome the corona apandemia, to compensate for the increase in energy prices, to divide the second pension pillar into a billion, as well as price shocks in connection with the war. Is it possible that, in a year's time, we will not talk about lower inflation, but about deflation as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U69	Thank you for a very good and complicated question. Forecasting is, of course, an ungrateful job at all, and this has been demonstrated in recent years. e has not been able to anticipate many of the things that are happening in the world today. And so it has also been very difficult to get the forecast price increase right. I do not, in itself, dare to rule out anything, but I do consider it very likely that the price increase will really slow down greatly because prices are very high and it is very difficult to move forward at the same pace, which is rather unlikely. However, since these high prices of energy and different services, as well as food prices, are increasing and are increasingly passing on to the prices of other products and services, I do think that our price increase is slowly decreasing, but I do not dare to consider the situation of deflation or price depression in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U70	Kristina Shmigun-Luke.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, My question is simple. We are always used to waiting for what the state does, what the local government does, what the central bank does. But my question concerns what every Estonian person can do in this inflation crisis. How can we somehow make our lives easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U72	Thank you very much and not at all for such a simple question. I well perceive, as Mr Reinsalu has already pointed out in his speech, that it may be misinterpreted if I, as the head of the central bank or, in the role of your politicians, make recommendations to individual people on how to save money. It is true that every person and family will, of course, see how to manage themselves as wisely as possible under the conditions of this rapid increase in prices. We know that many may be able to consume energy more efficiently in their households, to be more sustainable. And it is also worth making the necessary investments. These options, of course, vary depending on the person and the household. I do not dare offer such a universal recommendation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U73	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U74	Thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I'd be happy to spend a minute of my question on your report. You brought out two things here. At national level, one of the main drivers of the price increase is the state budget. Second: the central bank should change its monetary policy in order to be able to influence it. Both instruments are run by different institutions. And now [the question] is that if cooperation in this area is not very overlapping, what can be the end result? If the bank changes policy, but, for example, we reduce excise duties on energy carriers to a minimum, and in short, we contribute to the increase in prices, what could be the total impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U75	Thank you for a good question. Certainly, when we talk specifically about steps aimed at mitigating and suppressing price increases, the more central banks and governments can take these steps in one direction at the same time, the greater and stronger such economic policy decisions will have an impact. If the central bank gradually tightens its policy, increases interest rates, stops these bond purchases, it will certainly have an impact. This impact will be less if governments, at the same time as fiscal policies, give additional impetus to price increases. Well, the danger is that if you slow down with one leg and give gas to the other, the overall speed is not very constant. I think it would be better if we could just step in the same act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U76	Mr Madis Müller, President of Eesti Pank, I thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Thank you very much, thank you. I now ask for an economic expert in the Riigikogu speech chair Raivo Vare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U77	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm here as a co-rapporteur on a subject that really is a world of trouble. It may be expected that, in the current tense domestic policy situation, this difficult debate here is not of great interest, but it is nevertheless a very important problem that will be affected by the forthcoming general elections without doubt, as already appeared in the Chamber. Therefore, there should be every reason to discuss this issue in this Chamber as well. Inflation, as we heard, is a normal phenomenon. The problem is its high level and long duration, which we are currently going through both in Estonia and in the wider world. And today the president of the bank already did the job when he explained that there was a difference. First of all, basic inflation, with which nothing's wrong. And secondly, two components in the inflation column, linked to energy and food prices, which has actually caused this problem to become acute. Without wishing to intervene in the current political discussion, I would point out just a few theories about the causes of inflation, the effects and the possibilities of mitigating their effects, all the more so since [all] arguments were already expressed in the wording of the Governor of the central bank - both the proofs and the main components were set out. In fact, when you put it together, you might say that this is something where the results are as we know, but the interpretations may be slightly different. Now, some teas are short, there is little time. First of all, inflation always hits the poorer sections of the population more painfully. For obvious reasons, that is not debatable. Secondly, in this cycle, at least until the end of the year, the main driver of inflation was, in particular, the printing of money and the rapid recovery from the pandemic, the crisis in supply chains, which failed to keep pace. But hopefully, it will now be converted to the Fed in front and the Eurobank and others afterwards. Overall, by the end of the year, the situation will stabilise slightly, as is what is happening in the supply chains, especially after China is coming out of lockdown. Thirdly, the main factor has become the prices of raw materials, a leap in the price of energy carriers, in terms of some of the green turns at the beginning, but in the future, the war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed to stop it. Of course, food prices are also increasingly affecting, and they are growing [trend] rather than falling [trend] around the world. Fourthly, the root causes of inflation are beyond the reach of Estonia and its authorities and economic operators. Therefore, there are limited opportunities to influence its formation, but we do have opportunities to mitigate its heavier impact on the most affected sections of the population, subjects. Fifthly, in order to mitigate the negative impact of price increases, there are basically not only savings, which are discussed all the time and much anyway, in principle four types of direct target measures, but also a number of other activities, which also, albeit indirectly, hold back price growth. Some of them were already mentioned here. Sixthly, of these four types of direct targeted measures, financial support for the most affected must first be mentioned. The problem is the organisational complexity of ensuring their precise targeting and inevitably the incentive effect of inflation. But there is reason to believe that this is politically relatively feasible and also a somewhat more popular option. At the same time, it must be recognised that, in essence and fiscally, this is a relatively ineffective solution. In any case, its organisation also requires the involvement of local authorities in a significant role. The alternative is non-subsidies for all residents, either through the service provider or as direct payments, which are likely to be made for fiscal reasons, but also in order to avoid driving inflation, it would be worth considering whether to do so. Another option would be to lower taxes on the groups of goods most affected by price increases. So these, I'll remind you, are energy carriers and foodstuffs. In the current situation, these would be the case, as, for example, energy prices affect electricity prices, utilities prices, fuel prices in homes and in the transport sector. But the prices of basic food, which also form a part of energy prices, especially of the lower-income population [in spending], is a growing problem, which, even if we have everything well in the food industry, will lead to higher prices, regardless of our will. These markets are already globally affected. Generally speaking, this tax reduction is convenient in that it is centrally organised and can be monitored with the existing tax technology. The main problem is its negative impact on the growth of government revenue, which is relatively better in an otherwise inflationary environment. A third type of technique is the standard form for granting benefits in the form of some kind of permit letters: vouchers, cheques or something else for uninsured families. It has been used in many parts of the world as a universal support measure for the poorer people throughout the ages. Of course, we do not support it, but it is organised through local authorities and, unfortunately, it is also very labour-intensive as such. And fourthly, the national temporary price control takes the form of the introduction of a cap price for the most important groups of goods. We are not expected to be politically acceptable because it conflicts with the consistent foundations of economic policy that we have used so far. But that's not impossible. In addition, there are also intermediate activities that the State can realise as partial anti-upfront measures such as the roll-out of fuel reserves, the sharp contraction of public expenditure and investment, the increase in the minimum wage rate, the channelling of state companies, the redistribution of profits into grants, subsidies for investments such as energy investments and so on. Also, the rise in interest rates on loans, which is not centrally defined, mobile through basic interest rates, which are regulated by central banks, but rather also through the banking sector, is somewhat natural, perhaps a little of a direction. The rise in interest also certainly slightly suppresses and helps to alleviate inflationary pressure. This, of course, has a negative side effect in the context of economic development. In any case, if it's faster than the overall speed of raising Euribor, then it's a little bit of a point. It is absolutely clear that any measures must be taken in any case, particularly to counterbalance the effects of energy and food prices from the autumn onwards. The reason is very simple: these things go on in the world, we can't help it, we have to take this into account, we have to deal with it. However, there is no reason to believe that it will even end in autumn or in winter. The deficit of energy carriers, the context relating both to the war and to the global situation as a whole, including the situation on the gas markets separately, which is the subject of a separate lecture, is in principle inevitable. Secondly, the growing crisis in agriculture and food production, to which the climate has contributed in addition to these factors. Once again, it's a long story. In any case, however, it is clear that this price increase will continue in the autumn and especially in winter for objective and independent reasons in these two markets, food and energy carriers. But since this is a separate longer story, let's put it together in a way that let's agree on the results and adapt to it. Even the slowdown in economic growth in other parts of the world, which is predicted by the way, will not stop price growth. At least it won't stop for now. In this sense, the curve on one of the last slides by the President of the Bank is eloquent, because the level we reach unfortunately remains true, despite the fact that the paces in terms of the reference base in itself are falling naturally, but it will be a significantly higher level and there is nothing to be done. In any case, in other parts of the world, we are not talking about this with half our mouths, because we think we are in a slightly better position, and we also have opportunities for stagflation development, which would, of course, be particularly frightening, at first with our flexible economy. If this happens, it'll come to us. The next point, of course, relates to the fact that when it is decided not to pay attention to the severe negative effects of price increases in terms of the livelihood of at least part of the population, it is in principle also a choice. "Live Over" is a choice. Whether this "living through" option is possible in the timeline of the next year and a half is the next question. But somehow the leading countries in Europe have not really gone that way, despite their greater prosperity compared to us. Instead, they have taken different measures in different combinations. As the President of the Bank quite rightly said, we do not need to copy them, but it is worth noting that this is being done. But, of course, it seems to me at least as an estimate that the main part is primarily tax relief in different ways. This is also understandable, as public revenue also grows better than normal in an inflationary environment and there is more room to maneuver by temporarily lowering some revenue positions. Of course, the pressure of the electra must also be taken into account. You can't underestimate that. So, to sum up: since the war is going on, the food crisis is going on, because the energy crisis, at least this winter, is immanent, all this should, of course, already be taken into account. I dare say we have a decision to make anyway. So I wish you who these decision-makers are, that you make this decision wisely and prudently, and that you consider that difficult times do not tend to end as quickly as we hope, want or believe. It has nothing to do with religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U78	Thank you. Thank you also for your good time, you have a lot of questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U79	Thank you, honored waitress, for your brilliant presentation. My question now concerns the electricity crisis, where we have a reference period. According to May, the price of electricity has already increased by over 160% and we are also facing price shocks, EUR 3000+ per megawatt[-hour], as the experts have said here. In such a situation, would it not be reasonable for us to consider other solutions rather than to leave ourselves at the mercy of this floating system of CO2 and the stock exchange, given the situation where the cost of production is in other orders of magnitude in Narva's stations? Do you support the sale of electricity to domestic customers as a universal service for a "term" period in order to try to control this uncertainty to some extent at a price level, of course by ensuring a reasonable rate of return for the energy producer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U80	Yeah, I've been writing about it at a pretty early stage when those price jumps started, I guess. Yes, I support basically, but it must, of course, be done very wisely. This could only apply to households and it would probably be wise to move on to the logic of fixed fixed fixed contracts, which, by the way, has been implemented by a number of European countries. Whether to extend it to entrepreneurship, in particular to small businesses, is already more debatable. But it's worth considering anyway. In my opinion, the problem is actually a triple problem. There is actually a CO2 problem, there is a stock market pricing mechanics problem and then this is the general view that comes from the international markets. The last one's out of our jurisdiction, so we only have two options. For the pricing logic, this is a good method that we are talking about now, at least as a temporary measure. And as far as CO2 is concerned, of course, there are possible options here. Different options have also been proposed here, as we know, the possibility of fixing the price of CO2 emission units has been introduced. Another possible option is that it can be compensated in some form. I am not very in favour of this compensation because it slightly demotivates in the context of a green turn, but other options are all conceivable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U81	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U82	Thank you, I also thank you for quoting the sparkly Eesti Pank! Unfortunately, in your views, you went cross in several places with the views of Madis Müller. First of all, I would point out that this reduction in the tax on products is not a major problem, not that it costs a lot in the budget of billions, but that it is extremely ineffective in terms of the final price and extremely discriminatory in terms of income. This means that they still take the money from those who make more money. How would you explain why you disagree with the views of Eesti Pank that the increase in prices caused by the deficit cannot be controlled by the subsidy, including the reduction of the tax? What are your academic arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U83	Academic arguments? I have human arguments. If there is any relationship with what is actually happening to people in real life, we will discover that people [for] whose incomes are below average are a problem in two groups of goods: food, energy. I am not talking about others, I even mentioned it separately, that other groups of goods, which are the basis of inflation, are not the issue. The subject is these two groups of goods and the use of temporary measures is justified in an emergency. Just like it's always been. I was also talking about how many options there are. I counted them, there were four main directions, and there were a number of other measures. The question of choice! So I'm skeptical in that sense. The theory may be right, but in practice it is necessary to apply what is feasible and what is tangible. There's nothing to do. And if it's temporary, of course. Nothing's broken. By the way, experimental economic policy is one direction that we, as a well-known questioner knows, having once been a member of the Board of the Development Fund, at least theoretically, have had one of the many opportunities which has also brought success in Estonia, but which we, as if we no longer consider experimental. In our time, in view of the schemes in force at the time, we were dealing with experimentation and it was a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U84	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U85	Dear Raivo Vare! First of all, thank you for your competent and human expertise. But it's as if I'm looking back, and it's possible to appreciate the [dead] better than anyone can predict. Following a long heated discussion with the coalition partner [certain proposals], the delegation of ministers of the Centre Party made a long discussion during the previous heating period. Some of the suggestions went through. First, we maintained the preferential rate of excise duties on fuel, which would otherwise have increased this year. In addition, [we imposed] both universal measures and targeted measures to mitigate the rise in energy prices. This was the case for both entrepreneurs and people. This whole package was 230 million. If you also take excise duties into account, which were low and lower, plus these measures, what is your assessment, were they basically the right steps? Yeah, it's worse now. There's been more war here, and prices are going up. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Can we keep trying in the same direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U86	Well, these are all, in fact, the [measures] that fit into the broad lines of these actions that I have listed as possible solutions. But yes, it's a place of political consideration. It's not something I can offer or decide here, but it's probably worth considering. And, in fact, I am not tired of repeating and again of quoting the Governor of the central bank: the measures actually aimed at are, after all, very welcome in theory, unlike perhaps the opinion of some pseudotheorists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U87	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U88	Thank you, manager. Mr Raivo Vare, thank you for your meaningful report. You have more of a practical person's sense than those who have not experienced so much practical life. But I want to tell you that there will certainly be no possibility today if the country does not come to the aid of people with taxes, because food prices have already risen by more than 20% and probably 10% more in the near future. Estonia is one of the few countries where VAT distinctions are not used for food products. Would it be justified, for example, to reduce VAT on food in this situation by 10%? Would it produce a result, or would it be overrated, and would it not have a real result? Do you think that cutting VAT and excise duties on, for example, fuel would be effective? In the European Union, today, there are countries where fuel costs €1.4.1,6 per litre, with more than €2.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U89	I'm sure it will. We have been suspected that the effective cartel that exists in Estonia on the fuel market, we call things by the right name, simply shoving this tax difference into the owner's pocket, and that is why it cannot be done. And there are practically no other reasons in the political argumentation. I think it's still possible for fuel. And, of course, it is particularly funny when excise duty goes to the tax base, as in the case of VAT. But as far as foodstuffs are concerned, this is a classic move and let us be honest, it is technically a centralised measure under our circumstances, as I said, measure No 2 simply feasible, traceable and so on. The only problem is that there are fears here. By the way, I share these fears because, in the case of tax distinctions, whenever they are introduced temporarily, they tend to be loathed. And this fear has actually prevented us from discussing the matter further. I think it can be overcome as a temporary measure, given that, for a year and a half, the world has become a food disaster. Grain prices are running up, and cereal prices are like gas prices in energy, which carry all the food prices, no matter how much grain we grow here. Farmers know, don't they? There's nothing to do, all the prices go up. I'm tied to milk, milk prices go up, all prices go up. And there's nothing you can do about it. And then there is something that needs to be done as a temporary measure of relief, because food is the most important thing in addition to heating under our conditions. So, yeah, you should consider it, but you could agree it's conditional. This is exactly as long as the [crisis] is foreseeable in the time table. This is two agricultural seasons: essentially the agricultural season that has already begun, which will last until autumn, and the next one that will last until next autumn. For so long, this problem is guaranteed on our desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U90	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very practical presentation. I am pleased that you dared to say [suspect], which many have: that there is an effective cartel on the Estonian fuel market and no matter how much we reduce excise duties, the price of Estonian fuel is more expensive than in Latvia. But we in this hall have to be populists to some extent, because we have one campaign coming up all the time, you don't have to. I therefore ask you a question to which I would ask an unpopular answer that you can afford. During the previous discussions, both the presentations and the ensuing discussions, we were still made clear that it is not really worth throwing a loan into a fire. I understand that if excise duties on fuel are lowered, it will also have an impact on other groups of goods, because one important input price will decrease and it will be easy to manage by all means. But this other half, how do you cover, revenue side, what kind of money could society collect to cover it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U92	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U93	Understood. Actually, it's still a classic question of whether or not to take out a loan. In purely financial terms, borrowing is a relatively hell of a way to cover the consumption deficit. I'm afraid so. It's not good or bad, it is. The loan must be made for investment. My first point of view would be to review the investment programme and perhaps increase the share of loan capital there. This is quite possible and manageable today if you want to. And then the resources released from it would be used to support consumption, given the crisis situation. This would be a more reasonable way to go on a direct loan to pay for consumption support. That's my idea of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U94	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U95	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! I think you rightly quoted that we do not have to copy the world here, especially with the emphasis on the European Union, in view of what is happening there. But I'm afraid that's not what we have in mind. Let's just take the last question about borrowing. "Best Before" we have, in some ways, already missed these investments in borrowing. At present, there is such a high inflation rate and we could have had these investments made. Now we're wrestling with inflation. We actually know exactly, in the case of cuts in these taxes, that our major partner countries Germany and others have done so. But we don't think we should do it, so we can do it otherwise. Through this we are actually deteriorating our economic environment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What we should do to keep our partners and their activities more in mind, not...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U96	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U97	In the case of partners, we will still see what they do and do what is useful. In other words, if the Germans lower the fuel tax, it is worth taking it into account. When I listened to the radio this morning about how a long distance driver, who does music in Tuberkuloted on the basis of his presence, told us what the real situation in long-distance transport would look like, [I thought] I wanted to do something to make sure that we didn't have such a big price difference. To be honest, that's the main thing: know what others are doing, use the right stuff. With the loan of investment, I will not tire of repeating that it has always been a counter argument against the loan of investment that this loan will speed up inflation. Let's just say that every move is accelerating inflation now, which is fast anyway. By that logic, there's nothing we can do. The investment loan would, of course, have been better done before. Now he's, like, a question mark, but it could be used in some ways. As I said in reply to Annely Akkermann's question, this method could still be used today and, for seriously needed investments, so much available funds in the state budget next season could be used as temporary measures for grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U98	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U99	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, You have very nicely drawn out what can be done to mitigate the effects of price increases. Certain instruments are excluded in Estonia, either socially accepted or politically. But [Proposal] for tax relief to open up the door, I fully agree that it is the same way one thing to consider. However, in the case of diesel, for example, the reduction of excise duty has a minimum effect of 4.2 cents per litre. Given the price level, it's not [big nothing]. What about the price ceiling for district heating? If you put it on 100 euros or something like that, I think hundreds of thousands of people in Estonia would get relief in the next heating period. One is a simple change of line in tax law; the other is still a much more complex undertaking. The same is true of the VAT on food: we will reduce the price of potatoes from 20% to 9% if the price of potatoes has risen by more than 130%. How much does it feel? Free school meals bellies, a decent lunch and a lot of people in the after-school group in the same way. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are more complex things, but tax relief is politically attractive and easy to do. How do you explain this fork?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U100	I do think that, in the case of heating, for example, going back to the old system would in no way be contraindicated. This would not significantly deteriorate the economic performance of companies in the sector and would be a relief for people. I mean, the old model, everybody knows what we're talking about, right? It's a reasonable profit-making, essentially price-free system, but this price ceiling is a bit mobile. I could use that. As regards the targeted preferences actually mentioned in the question of the honourable questioner, it is a problem with them, as I said, that this is perhaps one very sensible way, but choices must be made for their administration. Unfortunately, nothing can be done, choices must be made. I imagine school lunch is a relatively simple choice, right? However, if we now start talking about some kind of benefits for all categories of people, then there will be an evil herd. Its execution is extremely difficult under our circumstances. We have generally chosen a different model.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U101	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U102	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'm going to continue with a little pre-questioner's point. You have pointed out that we have particular problems with food and energy carriers [with expensive]. But this topic of temporaryity was in conflict with the Governor of Eesti Pank, and I caught such a slight contradiction in your own [words] as well. Correct me if you can. First of all, you said that the price increase that is now coming is not temporary. However, in the case of temporaryity, a reduction in energy prices would be justified. However, I would say that if these are not temporary, for example the season, then it would be justified to reduce the price of heating during the [cold] season, for example, but certainly not to lower the price of energy carriers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U103	Thank you. In fact, on the question, this conflict was highlighted. In fact, there is no contradiction; both are possible. But as far as temporaryity is concerned, the principle is that this transitional shock should be overcome. That's actually a problem. I'm saying we're going to have a transition shock this winter. Jumpy [hugs]. It's not good or bad, it's just that. Like I said, it's kind of out of our reach. So we're going to use this to temporarily ease the transition difficulties. However, with regard to the so-called longer-term effects, it is of course wiser to implement the most systematic solutions and targeted grants are the most sensible or one of the most sensible logics. But it assumes that we have defined very precisely who these [helpers] are. As we talked about the previous question, it is easy to talk about school lunches, but it is very difficult to talk about all residents at once. It's two things. This is definitely a place of political struggle. But yes, the transition shock is a temporary criterion. And this shock is immense, and it's waiting for us right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U104	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Raivo Vare! I come to the sentence where you were the only performers today who used the word "stagflation." We may face stagflation. Are you comparing it to the same exponential shock, or what? In short, from the 1970s onward, the word has not been used very much, it has not been necessary. Would you please explain what it essentially means and how it can be countered so that it does not come? I understand that this is not just an Estonian issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U106	That's right. Thank you for your question. In fact, stagflation has, however, been after the 1970s. Japan is the best-known example. Japan has survived this long twenty-year period, and we basically know what that meant. Its main features are three. This is because the economy is not growing or even falling. At the same time, the price level continues to rise, i.e. [has been created] inflation is functioning, which is above average or normal. The third feature, which has now confused everyone's head, is that there are many of them, even theorists, that it is actually unemployment. But we don't have it now, and that's why we can't see it. Now, if you look at what's being thought of elsewhere, it's still thought that after a while it might occur. In any case, it is not yet certain that it will not happen. And when it does, it does. When can he occur and where? He can emerge in leading economic centers. And the leading economic centers are powerful enough to pull the rest of the world along. Since we are part of a leading economic centre, Europe, we will go along with it even if we do everything right ourselves. But for now, it's not threatening yet. We'll see. If, now, the price shock that awaits us here in the coming season gives rise to additional pressure, which, with a sharp increase in interest rates, will suppress the economic growth over the shaft, it may, otherwise not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U108	Good manager! Dear waitress, The bank president here said there's not much we can do, a small country and everything. But one of my Facebook friends made a list so you could be the prime minister of the dream government. If you could get this place to be free very soon, what would you do instead of the Iron Lady, to get rid of this European Union leader's role in inflation, or at least to bring it to the European Union average?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U109	I thank you, of course, for this connotation, but I don't have any such plan. And, of course, in the difficult times that await us all and which politicians should consider in their actions, they would not want to be another crisis manager, just as I have managed to be in the government a few times, in times of worse crises. So anything's possible. But I'd do it to make the first arrangement with the Baltics. I think we have the problem of each and every one of us dealing with our own business. We could use a similar methodology. For example, with the same fuel excise, if we had real Baltic cooperation, the picture would be different. But it's not. It's not! In essence, we are only united by a common enemy, and that is, of course, in a geopolitical context. As far as economic policy is concerned, we actually treat ourselves as de facto competitors, but we are actually in the same boat. If we look at this chart, to which the honourable questioner referred, we see that there we are the first ones, but who will be next? Latvians and Lithuanians. So we're in a similar situation, we could put our backs together and try to influence at least this volume in a slightly more coordinated way, in a slightly larger economic capacity and in close economic cooperation. That would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U110	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U111	Thank you, good manager. Raivo, first of all, I would like to thank you for a very meaningful presentation. But I'm asking you how you feel as an expert about the fact that there are currently 50 million per month electricity bills [in the rear] for the CO2 quota that Eesti Energia buys, some 10 million is a monthly overload fee. [All then] 60 million, not to mention everything else. Would it still not be logical for this carbon quota to be sold to Eesti Energia by the state with a so-called zero euro, at least for private consumers and hospitals, for such a company, and this would simply cost less than 50 euros, instead of paying 200 euros for a megawatt-hour during the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U112	As I said earlier, one of the possible solutions is actually linked to this very possibility of a CO2 quota. But there are several choices. The choice proposed in the question, i.e. a zero price for certain categories of [consumer], is one possible option. Why not, but it's gotta be paid in this case, isn't it? And it's going to be lost on the revenue side. The second option is not to change anything, but in this case, we should go this way to simply ask for the part that is going to end up with CO2 from the same producers and then divide it into support. Let's just say that both options are technically feasible. The first option would be simpler, the second option would be somewhat fairer, as targeted support could be used. But in any case, something should be done. The current situation is abnormal and forgive [this word] in this hall, perverse: the price goes up to where it should not be, [and goes] because the system requires it or the existing regulation prescribes it. Someone wise has said that I am not going to refer to it, but the speaker is aware that the person who was at the beginning of today's stock exchange order has said that the stock exchange, together with the CO2 system, was not created for a crisis situation, it was created for a normal market situation. And there he is, no doubt, but there's a crisis. And this is a permanent crisis and still a continuing crisis, and unfortunately, at present, a hundred percent of these things are not working. So you have to use buffers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U113	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. Thank you very much for your answers. Thank you. Good fellows! We have two proposals. One has come from the initiator of the debate on today's key national issue, the Special Committee on State Budget Control. A similar proposal has come from the Isamaa Group. The session is asked to be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on both the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the proposal of the Isamaa Group, which are similar and ask for the extension of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U114	With the result of 19 votes against and no abstentions, the session has been extended. Thank you. Now, good fellows, before I open negotiations, I will pass on the request of the commission. This request is next. The speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups, but the initiator of the debate has proposed that the representatives of the political groups first appear. I assume that in this order we have, if you are the first in this order from your group, you are the representative of the group. I open negotiations and ask Jürgen Ligi, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, I am sorry that the white politicians of such a serious problem are basking so much and talking so much empty and controversially. But, of course, the price increase is a great social pain, unfortunately also an overblown pain, because it does not, however, seriously hurt our majority, especially when we compare it with the hell that is in Ukraine and to which this price increase is largely linked. But, of course, it's not just about this, it's not just about Putin's price increase. In the case of society, of course, it must be remembered that the memory of the slow rise in prices, which lasted a decade in general for our country, is forgotten. Forgotten rapid increases in real income, but as fast as it is, everyone's willing to blow up this subject bigger than it really is. Let us admit, however, that we have lost either three or four in our real income, I do not think five years. We'll have to take a good look. And it has not been a time of poverty, especially compared to the hell of war that others are suffering. However, it is not our duty to be happy then, but to talk about the reasons for the price increase and about what we can influence. We cannot affect [more] recovery from a pandemic. That's a good thing, isn't it? That's a great reason. We cannot say that we have somehow restricted competition and, as a result, prices have increased. No, it's not! There is quite good competition policy in Estonia, quite good, it is certainly not a major problem. We have not been the money printers, it has been the central bank, and his message through Madis Müller's mouth is very reasonable. Both asset purchases and interest rates must be withdrawn and these decisions have actually already fallen in practice in the central bank. And we, of course, do not determine the terms of the loan. But what we are going to determine is things like distributing pension money to people at work and the budgetary situation. The budget situation is terrible. While Madis Müller said that one in ten euros we have borrowed, the basically pending drafts are increasing this proportion to a fifth. So we have to come to our senses and admit that the country itself is fueling inflation by spending more than it earns. It is probably appropriate to refer to the regulations that may have been here, but unfortunately Raivo Vare only slipped over it, although he gave categorical assessments. There's probably regulation somewhere in the stock market review, but again, we're not affecting it. Why throw it in the air, as did the questioner, if there are no suggestions on how to change stock market regulation? In general, I once again admired Riina Sikkut, who said in one debate that the stock market is working well for us. And basically, he's right. The stock market actually provides us with equipment and supply, without it we'd still be in trouble. We should double our production capacities, we would not get a share of renewable energy. The problems are not really on the stock market, although seasonally yes, price jumps were also directly based on the stock exchange during the changeover to gas heating. The most expensive producer in this mechanism set the final price as the logic of the power exchange. I'm asking for more time. I think it's gonna take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U116	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U117	Thank you. But now, which is ugly, from which I started: it's ugly for politicians to turn this thing on. Let's remind the new Minister of the Economy, Taavi Asa, about how all people are in trouble, maybe a few people are not in trouble, but everyone is in trouble. This was at a time when forecasts offered an inflation rate of 6.8% this year, and there was no reason yet to go and correct this forecast. It must certainly not be done by [correction] politicians. And that would mean an increase in real wages. The colleague behind me said that... What did he say? We have a middle class who needs the help of the state. This is a completely absurd statement that most people must be dependent on the state. This is simply not physically possible. And that was again at a time when there was no current inflation and where they had no idea about it. However, even in the case of current inflation, we cannot say that we are taking people on national wages, that is not possible. [It is not possible] to collect all social benefits. And, of course, Jaanus Karilaid came here between the lines and called out no, he probably went to the remote to say it, to look out the window, people screaming for help, we have to do something, we don't have time to think. Well, that's bullshit. It's bullshit, pouring oil into the fire, and it's just unfair. It is always up to the state, the politicians, to deal with the causes and the methods that are in their hands, and to throw away such panic. Unfortunately, really meaningful, impeccable was only a central bank report here today. Raivo Vare still shot across the corner in several places, and of course he got the populists' approval. I mentioned this: if, after all, the main problem of these energy subsidies is not a sum but a poor distribution, then the answer cannot be, as it had to be, that the poor suffer. I am saying that the vulnerable must be supported, but if you go to support everyone at once and in such a way that those who are wealthier get more, which is the result of these tax reductions, that the upper [revenue]deciles take on the main money, then that's bullshit. It is not even raising money from one pocket to another, but it is raising money in the budget, above all, where there is money. This is not an adequate policy and was answered several times by Madis Müller. Fortunately, Raivo Vare also admitted that Madis Müller's report was good. He quoted it, but where he went against it, he did not answer why he went against it. He didn't even catch the logic I put forward for him. Of course, he's a smart person. So what does the country have to do? It is not the case that we say: 'But you say that there is nothing the country can do. " The state can invest. Please, the resources there, and more than ever. Where was Minister Aas? Social benefits, social assistance more needs-based, but not subsidies. Not subsidising, which creates an additional deficit! This was the main battery of Eesti Pank. No specific goods that are missing may be subsidised even if they are not subsidised. And not one in ten [euro], as [the President of the Bank] says, but one in five euro on current drafts, we tend to miss the budget. It is absurd to pay support from loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U118	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marek Jürgenson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U119	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, When the economist Raivo Vare was in this remote control, the news came that the fuel price record has been crossed again: it is a 2,3 euro magical limit that has been exceeded. Heat energy 61%, electricity 146%, gas 217%. These alarming figures reflect the inflation figures published today in a year-on-year comparison. Pretty sad. We are talking about Estonia and the livelihood of our own people. Yes, the average wage shows a trend in growth, but at a much lower rate. Taking into account all inputs, Estonia is facing 20% inflation today. For many people, we are talking about a sharp decline in real income and purchasing power. The price rise race is still gathering winds, no one knows exactly what autumn brings us. And the most painful effect is on the poorest and most vulnerable in our society, those who spend a large part of their income on food and energy. However, the middle class and many other important social groups, such as entrepreneurs, will not be left untouched either. The effects of war have created a new negative supply side shock in the global economy, just when some of the challenges of supply chains during the pandemic period began to subside and it was as if a feeling of normal life was beginning to recover. This led to an even sharper increase in food and energy prices and again damaged the opportunities for growth. Inflation in the euro area rose by 7.5% in April this year, by 8% in the US, but Estonia's figures are more than 10% higher. Here too, the ignorant realises that our people need greater financial support from the state to cope. How we can cope with inflation is the issue now. When designing fiscal policies, we must take advantage of opportunities to support growth. Well-designed and carefully-designed steps can help to reduce the negative impact on growth by only giving inflation a small additional boost. This would be the best policy option to mitigate the immediate impact of the crisis on consumers and businesses, especially when inflation limits the room for manoeuvre in monetary policy. According to Economist Rainer Kattel, the government has three tools to control inflation. These are price controls for important goods and services. At this point, I agree with Mr Vare, who has said that it is necessary to impose a ceiling on the price of electricity. Indrek Neivelt, a banking figure, has also said that the high inflation rate in Estonia is not the cause of war in Ukraine, but twice the price of electricity in Sweden. We must also counterbalance the negative effects of crises by means of excise and VAT policies. There is also a need to review the tax rate on food products and excise duties on fuel in order to curb price increases. Lowering consumption taxes would be a significant victory for those people who are currently spending all their income on food and consumer goods and on home expenses. Secondly, governments can tax extraordinary profits from energy companies due to exceptional circumstances. It is clear that, in the event of higher price increases, energy companies make far more profits. It is the large profits of state-owned energy companies that should be directed directly to the package of aid measures. Thirdly, governments can change taxes so that taxes on wealthier people rise, while those who earn less fall. This will reduce the impact of inflation on the latter. For many years, the Centre Party has stood for fairer, progressive income tax. Being a small enterprise myself, I am concerned about the near future perspective of small business in Estonia. Entrepreneurship's ability to function directly affects the state's ability to cope. Where else money comes from to the state budget, if not from business and taxes related to work and consumption. Helping businesses cope with rising energy prices is therefore extremely important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U120	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U121	Yeah, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U122	One minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U123	As prices rise, purchasing power decreases and businesses lose their turnover, many jobs disappear and the state's tax revenue decreases. The cost of the social system is increasing significantly and such a downward spiral would only bring additional problems to the country. And my previous speaker mentioned piggy. I'm so sorry, this is what the previous speaker said to all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U124	Thank you. I now ask Riina Sikkut, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U125	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U126	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great thing that we are talking about inflation again. In fact, a lot of measures to mitigate the effects have already had a debate in this Chamber in the last few months, but it is good that today we have the opportunity to better structure both the explanation of the situation and the possible means of intervention. And I'm going to sum it up to figure out why we have this price increase, why we have to help, what to do, who's in trouble, how to help them. It seems unreasonable [the argument] that it is actually not possible to do anything, while, well, I don't know, benevolently and without taking political points to approach, it is actually possible to put together a perfectly sensible resolution package. But as has been said many times today, [cause] is the price increase, the consequences of the pandemic, the printing of money, the impact of the war, the peculiarity of our energy market and the fact that the economy is very energy-intensive in Estonia and food is a very large part of the human consumption basket. So we are more sensitive to energy and food prices. And there is inevitably [convergence], but we are just moving towards Western Europe's prices and wage levels. So Peeter Ernits' question of how we can reach the European Union's average inflation level is not something that can actually be done because the root causes are elsewhere. We cannot halve inflation or somehow bring it to 2%. The question is how to mitigate the impact of inflation, especially for groups with lower incomes. We need to understand why [it must be done]. Do we need to get involved at all? I'm sure it is. We can talk about general dissatisfaction in society, but also that it is simply fair to leave a person responsible for mitigating the risks that he can reasonably anticipate and mitigate himself. But an increase in the price of gas of more than 200% or an increase in the price of potatoes of more than 100% is not something that a person can reasonably predict. Even if [people] have accumulated savings at low wages, such an increase in prices will eat these savings very quickly. From the analysis of Eesti Pank, we know that there are actually very many animals from salary to salary. Those who have one to two months' wages on account of savings, in fact, we do not have enough. If you look at the intervention, as Mr Vare has explained nicely, you must take into account what is acceptable to us in society. Very much can be done theoretically, but mention to the person of Estonia the stamps, and everyone has goose skin on the skin. So there's something we can automatically rule out. But in order to [be] willing to intervene, we need to understand who is in difficulty. We have indicators of relative poverty for decades. It is clear that single parents, the elderly living alone and the unemployed are the most at risk. In the case of the unemployed, we can say that we have income support as such last part of the safety net. For the elderly living alone and for single parents in the same way, it is public maintenance assistance or support for the elderly living alone, we have targeted measures in place. This does not mean an additional administrative burden; it is all the things that are already working. The question is, can we make these schemes more generous? Now, if you look at the rest of the population, really, the price increase is widespread and energy in one way or another we all use it. Who doesn't drive a lot, maybe it's got expensive gas heating, the third one's on district heating. To say that you deal with these risks yourself, no one can take their apartment out of the apartment building and say that I'm putting him in the woods and transferring him to wood-fired. These are not realistic solutions. So, in addition to [the targeting of aid] to groups at risk of relative poverty, there is no doubt that energy needs to be looked at more widely. Indeed, the price ceiling for district heating and other things that actually have an impact and also have a going-away experience. At the same time, people have very different consumption choices. However, I would not like to dictate that you can buy bread and milk, but you will not be able to get to you in the event of an increase in prices. If we look at people who manage low wages, raising the tax-free minimum is equally easy to apply, there is no administrative burden. People who earn less than 1200 euros and can use the maximum tax-free minimum, all of them find it difficult to cope with paydays. In principle, however, this is a modernisation of the income tax system and a change that could also be made outside the crisis. This is a long-term step in the right direction anyway, but it would also offer a remedy for the rise in prices now. In addition, children's benefits. Indeed, if there are more people in the household, the price increase will also have a more severe impact. You gotta buy a lot of food. So the increase in the support of the first and second children and the increase in the support of single parents, if you look at the poverty indicators, are the ones that are best targeted. Plus school food. Unfortunately, there are still children for whom school food is the only warm meal a day. Luckily, there are fewer and fewer. At the same time, school canteens and its service providers are in difficulty at high food prices. I guess [acceptance] comes at the cost of a fall in quality. We know that macaroni can be eaten up every day, the question is what is its long - term health effect. So raising school food support is also a step in the right direction in the long term in the interests of the health of the population. Similarly, this is not a particular budgetary burden. In my opinion, the long-term objectives of the measures should be to modernise the tax system and, for example, to maintain children's health. I asked the Governor of Eesti Pank whether all the cost euros that go into that deficit were equal. Actually, it's not. When we are talking about improving the energy performance of buildings, it is undoubtedly an investment and a reasonable cost to do, and also at a time of high inflation. Everyone whose apartment buildings have been renovated can see that heating costs will be saved from next month. It will have an impact in the next heating season as well as in the longer term. Similarly, defence costs and renewable energy investments. Finally, in order to control energy costs and to still be able to generate electricity at an affordable price, we need to produce more of our own. And there's readiness, there's technology, and there's really investment money. There's a place where the country has to take its feet out of its stomach and create soil so that it can build more renewable energy capacity in the coming years. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, we did not have time to talk about Baltic cooperation and the forthcoming elections. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U128	Your time! Thank you very much. I now ask the representative of the Isamaa Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Raivo! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting by saying that I don't quite understand who we have in government and what decisions they make. Let's start with the simple thing. A few days ago, the green energy supply stopped. One important thing was forgotten about this procurement: it was not written whether solar or wind energy was wanted. They wanted both. And what's the result? An Australian company won this procurement and Estonia will be filled with solar panels. But the situation is that there is no energy crisis in the summer, usually there is an energy crisis in winter. And in winter, wind power, solar energy is still very low, practically not. And now, in reality, in 450 megawatt-hours, for which the call was announced, there are only solar panels, but the bidders with this low price or guarantee of EUR 20 were three times more. So 1,200 megawatt-hours could get this cheap energy, and it should only be paid by people if, at some point, there really is so much energy that you have to produce at zero. But there are no decision-makers. It seems that the same decision-makers are those who, on Elering's side, are looking at the gas pipeline connection between the very important LNG terminal and the Balticconnector pipe. To date, no procurement has been announced. The terminal should be ready in mid-August. And then they come here and they say that 200 euros is a very good price for electricity, while in Finland it was 80 euros on the same day, Friday. Why do we have to pay this? We only need to pay for one reason: there is a cable built, a third line between Estonia and Latvia. No one has dared to argue at this table or in the government that this is actually the case. Estonia is currently able to produce its own needs [within range]. We pay EUR 50 million of CO2 each month. Eesti Energia costs 50 million, but the state budget is estimated at 20 to 25 million, not 50 million. Why don't they give that half back to people? Estonian residents, domestic consumers use on average 2 sharps per month. It's very easy to make a decision right now. We agree that the Estonian Government will grant free CO2 quota to Eesti Energia so that our consumers will receive electricity at a marginal price for their primary needs [when covered]. This [target group] is the population, it is the hospitals. There would be no need for any accounting compensation mechanisms and people could buy electricity below EUR 50. But what do we have today? 200 euros! And nobody wants to do anything, absolutely nothing! Look at another record at the gas station today! But if we start discussing the reduction of excise duty, which does not make this price much cheaper, then it will be opposed. Or when we say that electricity, gas, the heating economy, and also firewood, should have the VAT cut from 20% to at least 9% in order to support our own people, they say it is insane. But it is forgotten that all prices have risen more than twice. The wood has been [weighed] twice, the gas today at least five times. And at the moment, there is no one responsible whether or not there is a connection between the Balticconnector and the port. And now we're dreaming that Finland will build a terminal for Christmas and maybe start buying gas from the Finns. Where are we going? Where are we going, I'll ask. Where are the eyes of the decision-makers today? I understand one party has decided to rule alone. Very good, if you understand economic issues, then it is really good... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U130	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U131	...but what if you don't understand? I have often said this sentence that a member of the Riigikogu should not sit more than three in this Chamber. During the fourth term, he should go to a productive job. Some members of the Riigikogu exclaim that they have been lifetime MEPs, but those people have gone far from real life. It is really very easy for a person of Tallinn to be in the Riigikogu. In the morning, you take a cab to work, you push off the button and then you take the cab back home again, and that's the day. But those who come from farther away still have to work here, it's not possible to drive from morning to night. And then sometimes people ask why car compensation is. But if you drive to the gas station and have to pay out of your pocket, in the last few weeks, gas station prices have risen drastically. People in rural areas work by car, it's their [work] tool, they can't work without it. We have free public transport, but we don't know who it is. Most people can't use this transport because the bus doesn't drive from where you need to go at that time. Now let's take some sense [help] and invite [place] those who decide. We'd actually listen to the energy people and ask them. You don't just have to ask Elering who says it's okay. It is not okay if we have connections to the north and to Latvia, it is also important what costs the current energy in this Community, which is its price. It's not like we can buy at any price. Does anyone know what happened in Finland the other day? No crisis had taken into account the fact that at the same time Russia was turning off electricity and gas. It was calculated that once the electricity was cut off, the gas turbines were made into electricity. Today, electricity is sold from Estonia to Finland. As a result, the price in Estonia has become slightly cheaper, but Latvia-Lithuania has increased by this amount, as there is even more electricity deficit. But do we have any kind of plan today if that happens tomorrow? It's enough to turn off the power on the Russian side. There's talk of gas and we're not buying gas from Russia. I can tell you in secret that there is a company in Lithuania that is registered with another company in the European Union, but brings Russian gas. And that same Russian gas gets into Inčukalns' vault, and that's where we all buy that gas. It's not so easy that life stops. I know that Eesti Energia already has practically a gas supply for its customers today, because gas sellers must ensure this. But the state is doing nothing today, but stripping us of three skins, not to mention that the overload fee will be taken from us every month for at least 10 million out of our pockets. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U132	Thank you, good waitress. Thank you very much. I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U133	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, When the euro was created here in 1999, the Germans feared that it would get out of hand, and then it was put in place that [inflation] could be at or below 2%. But now that we're looking at May, that's what it was, the Germans themselves had 8.7%. And if we still had Madis Müller on his blog in 2019 that it should be at 2%, although it was a little higher, it is now ten times higher. Estonia started its sport already in January. Then we were 11%, now we're over 20. Latvia started from 7.5, and now in May it was 16.4%. Lithuania started at 12.3, reached 18.5% in May. And Finland reached 7.1% on January 4.1%. The EU average was 8.1%. So, in fact, inflation in the euro area, for the first time since the creation of the single currency, exceeds 8%. And now, if you look at what's been going on here. Paul Krugman, whom I quoted a little bit, titled his article [which appeared] a few days ago, so: the Estonian translation is "Perverts' inflation policy." And there was talk about these things, what Estonia will look like in the European Union. Of course, that the three Baltic countries are governed, Estonia first by 20% and so on, and the two-digit [inflation] is in Slovakia, Greece and the Netherlands, but the quote: among the big ones, Germany reaches 8.7%, which is three tenths more than Spain. France, on the other hand, will continue with one of the lowest 5.8% in the euro area. So, yes, I can agree that this is a pretty perverse situation. The [price] of petrol is already at 2.3 [euro], gas is rising by more than 200%, electricity is close to 150%, fuel is above 60%, potatoes are 100% and so on. And what is important is that we live in Estonia, we have an iron lady, we manage our country successfully and have made the cost of living and the price increase the greatest in Europe. It's interesting to hear better people talk. I will read to you a few thoughts about Paul Krugman's article last December, December 20th. The title was "A Year of Wicked Inflation." He says that in 1973, when he went to university, he shared a room and they didn't have much money and the cost of living rose to heaven. By 1974, overall inflation reached 12% and the price of some products had increased significantly, particularly beef minced meat. In August 1973, beef was 49% more expensive than two years earlier, so the boys didn't even think about the hamburger [stretching]. Krugman says so, it was last December: now we have reached the same position, we have the highest inflation rate in the last 40 years. I'm not going to tell you everything. But he also says that the current inflation rate came unexpectedly. At the beginning of this year, inflation was still low. In March, the members of the Federal Reserve Committee, which was responsible for monetary policy, assumed that only 2.4% would rise, but they totally screwed up, says Nobel laureate. And he admits that he, too, thought that the tide was likely to be fleeting. And he says he was wrong. "This thing is not transient at all and lasts longer than most of us expected. " He spoke of his colleagues. "Inflation is an emotional subject. No other subject I write about will cause so many angry reactions," Krugman admits. And the debate on inflation is particularly intense. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How about a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U134	It will. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U135	Yeah. Estimates of the economy have become incredibly neutral; we live in a post-truth political environment. Not everything can be read here; everyone can read the article themselves, even though [he] has a lot more of these articles. Krugman says that current inflation is similar to the top level of inflation in 1946 and 1948, then it was 20%. I would remind you that under the leadership of the Iron Lady, we have arrived in the United States in 1946 and 1948. Krugman talks about different times, the waves that have been in the Korean war, which have been during the Vietnam War and so on. At the time of Nixon's re-election, politicians took several steps, and then they got 8%. And what's important is that he tells us what happened in 2021. Why did inflation exponentially rise and remain high this year? Mainstream economists are divided into two groups. The temporary team he belongs to claims that we are faced with a temporary hole, but it is more lasting than initially thought, says Krugman. Others warn us that we can be expected to be comparable to stagflation in the 1970s [the situation]. And let us be honest, so far the warnings about inflation have been certain, while the forecasts of the transition team that inflation will disappear quickly have been wrong. So, in fact, we are facing a very tough future, and in this situation, in this perverted situation, where Estonia has reached under the leadership of the Iron Lady, telling people that nothing can be done is inconclusive. Yeah, we can do that. You can't talk about everything. There can really be no change in inflation, but it is possible to relieve symptoms, ease people's lives, whether it be the reduction of excise duties and VAT, the abolition of some bio-added [related claim] and [in this respect] accession to Latvia. There is a way to run the country in a benevolent way, not with the look of the Iron Lady outwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U136	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Sõerdi. Would you like some extra time? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, Inflation is indeed the biggest problem in the Estonian economy and we also know that most of the price increase is caused by energy and food prices. Half of the price increase comes from energy carriers and their prices are largely determined by the world market. Politicians, of course, have simple solutions to contain inflation: lower taxes, tax exemptions, pay subsidies. Unfortunately, things aren't that simple in the world. Experts also tell us that there are no simple solutions to difficult problems. I noticed in the Finnish YLE news [what thinks] Valtion Taloudellinen Tutkimuskeskus, this is a state research centre. [There work] economists Sami Kuronen and Marita Laukkanen commented on this matter. In short, they have said that we live in a market economy where the market determines the price, and intervention in these prices is expensive and inefficient. Finnish experts must be accepted. The Governor of Eesti Pank also said that tax cuts may be considered when high prices are temporary, but this is not the case at the moment. Such intervention has implications, but we are projected to be permanently in deficit at 3%. Lowering taxes and increasing subsidies means adding more to the budget deficit. And as somebody here said before, if we have to cover this minus with the loan money, taking out a loan to cover consumption is a hell of a way. The central bank's main tool in controlling inflation is monetary policy. Indeed, countries do have fiscal policies and it works precisely in order to deepen the budget deficit, contrary to what they want: the state collects less money in tax revenues than it resists its own demand and supply of its own money. Thus, deficit fiscal policies amplify the acceleration of inflation. And the worst sufferer is the low-insured people, precisely those who are wanted to be supported by grants. Inflation hits, hits the most vulnerable people with the highest energy costs and food costs in the consumer basket. Fiscal policy should be the opposite. And the opposite was true before the previous financial crisis, which was in 2009. We did a budget surplus in advance. One reason, of course, was that with the surplus of the budget we wanted to suppress inflation, because we had the objective of joining the euro and had to meet the inflation criterion. But now, in the newer times, the principle that, in good times, budget reserves and budget buffers need to be collected in order to make it easier to survive the years of crisis. When the pandemic started in 2020, the principle was forgotten and there was no problem that the budget was in deficit. But now we are in a situation where we have the fastest growth in the loan burden in the euro area and the budget deficit is above the euro area average. In this situation, the possibilities for paying the necessary grants to the people who are underprivileged are limited, because if we unlimitedly amplify inflation through our budget and use the loan money to do so, then we will achieve the opposite. Moreover, in recent years we have become accustomed to the fact that other countries, as well as Estonia, have been able to borrow very cheaply. That time is over. The change in the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which is already under way, also raises interest rates on government bonds, and the cost of interest in the state budget also becomes a very large cost item at the expense of our debt burden, which is growing. And by that, there will be fewer opportunities in the future to pay these same grants from the budget. And, in fact, the counterweight to subsidies should be a much more aggressive investment policy, i.e. a much more lasting solution, and also a more affordable solution for the state, because the state cannot pay subsidies every year to mitigate energy costs. After all, energy investments, investment in renewable energy projects are a much more permanent solution. Investments in the insulation of apartment buildings could be much more aggressive. These are permanent solutions. In fact, I would have liked to hear those warnings from the Chairman of the Special Committee on National Budget Control, which will happen if the state goes down this road to pay for inflation. You can't pay for inflation. The payment of inflation will lead to even higher inflation. And in a context of budget deficits, increasing subsidies and lowering taxes will exacerbate the budget deficit and thus speed up inflation. That is what I would have liked to hear from the chairman of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U138	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U139	Two, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U140	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U141	Thank you. Honourable representative of the people! First of all, I would like to thank all the groups of ambassadors for expressing their views, the honourable expert Raivo Varet and the Governor of Eesti Pank for their treatment in the current situation. Let's go over these starting points. First, inflation is not expected to return to the pre-jumping situation in Estonia. Inflation, on the contrary, is accelerating, at least in the short term, in the context of rising commodity prices, food prices. In fact, this crisis is ongoing, escalating and some of the final products are not yet covered by this price structure. Secondly, in the district heating period ahead, there will be a worse disaster than there was in the previous district heating period. Thirdly, this is not about our core inflation. The issue at the moment is that in an extraordinary environment [regulatory], including sanctions that are very necessary in the Ukrainian war to discourage Russia, and the world's shortage of raw materials has caused extraordinary global inflationary pressures which, for certain reasons, have been amplified in our region. Therefore, this academic line of reasoning, which here speaks of the doctrine that, according to the universal logic of inflation, cost savings must be made, must not increase the supply of money, should be in line with the inflation of such an autistic country's own economic policy. We don't have that situation. What is the benefit of this Ivory Tower's [given] teaching that in our state budget, the amounts of EUR 50 million or EUR 100 million are greater or less than we are actually faced with the fact that energy price leaps, which take place gallopingly, increase the impact of inflation, let us say, step by step, more orders of magnitude? Of course, the state must give a signal to businesses, which is intended for consumers throughout society, that the costs of governance must be summed up. There is no doubt about that; it is, above all, a pedagogical message of the state, which is necessary, in addition to its importance in substance. Now, the question of what we need to understand is that we do not have a normal market working in the current situation when there is a war going on. And that means that we need to [implement] exceptional time-limits for getting out of this crisis. To be comforted, we are told that inflation is transient, but it is not true. We are told to be comforted that, in fact, the whole society problem is not inflation; it is a problem for people with lower incomes, which is right in terms of meeting their concerns, but it does not have the right to be passive. It is used as an excuse not to impose universal rules, whether they are fiscal or regulatory, so that society as a whole can win. Forgive me, I do not agree with such a Marxist approach that inflation is, as it were, needs-based, that the poor and the rich have different inflations. The rich deserve it, the middle class of Estonia, the wealthier people, take this inflation, you're one fifth poorer, that's what's great! And then, with our grants, the state majestic heights, then the people with lower incomes are giving grants. It's a morbid reasoning, it's a neo-communist reasoning, and I categorically reject it. The fact that the state needs to contain monopolies much more vigorously is a very important message that was there today. Raivo Vare's call to deal with the so-called effective hidden fuel cartel, the issue that the Competition Authority drew attention to regarding the pricing of cogeneration plants, as well as the overcompensation of renewable energy, are practical issues. For some reason, the government has, as in some way, completely reduced itself from this issue, which is the most basic rule of a free market economy: it is fair and transparent pricing on regulated markets or those markets that have to operate as free markets. In such an inflationary situation, these hidden cartels are, in general, the most dangerous drivers of inflation. What I want to say is that the main problem is that we lived last winter or what we lived in, the government's approach was that this is a short-term problem that does not have to be dealt with. And in the last six months, we do not have any measures in this government crisis or in a crisis in the government, how do we call it - any measures that should contain inflation? [No measure] has in fact been submitted to Parliament by the Government. Although various drafts have been initiated in Parliament, they have run into opposition from the government or opposition from the coalition. And it is a very serious strategic problem that we have such a going-away spirit that we can, figuratively speaking, survive. You can't run a country, especially in a crisis situation, "Let's go over!" in the light of philosophy. This principle certainly needs a so-called mental correction. We need, firstly, clear scenarios for forecasting inflation, which concern the perspective of a year or two years, and, secondly, a rational catalogue, a toolbox. That is why, in my previous presentation, I outlined this catalogue of Bruegel's think tank for all European countries, a reference point which has been implemented in a very diverse way. I guess by the end of the day, all individual measures will somehow recede to a political arbitration agreement. But we don't have that catalog, there's no plan. And it is very eloquent that the government, even though the requests had been made, refused to change an additional budget of EUR 802 million. Some theorists say that we ourselves create this inflation and, according to this rhetoric, the government increased our inflation by 802 million euros. However, no penny in the supplementary budget is foreseen either to alleviate inflation or to reduce inflation pressure by time-bound fiscal policy measures. And it is, of course, extremely dangerous and unacceptable that we are simply giving up on this most serious problem of economic coping and the problem of the competitiveness of Estonian companies and comforting ourselves by "the price of our money was higher in the past." But look, you see, the tsar time didn't produce color TVs, did it? To comfort the past, we do not live in the past, we deal with the future. And Eesti Pank would, of course, expect Eesti Pank to be co-responsible in these trillion-dollar debt purchase programmes. I would remind you that the high inflation figures were already on the table at the end of last year. The European Central Bank continued its debt purchase programme very resolutely in the first quarter, which was only completed at the end of the first quarter. Certainly, Eesti Pank also has the responsibility to apply the tools [using] that control inflation, for example, in the area of housing loan rules. Currently, Eesti Pank has not taken its own measures. Eesti Pank does not pay out subsidies in Estonia and does not do so; it deals with measures to control inflation pressure in a narrow area. This has not been done by Eesti Pank, I call on them to do so. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U142	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heiki Hepner. Let's take eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U143	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Inflation is undoubtedly number one in the current problems of our lives. There's no doubt about that. I would perhaps focus on the field of energy on this rather multi-layered issue. The good speakers Raivo Vare and also the Governor of Eesti Pank have just stressed the share of energy in inflation formation and maybe that is why we should pay extra attention to it. And the second point I will use in my speech is the comparison made by Mikhail Lotman: inflation is a fever that, in some ways, signals that something is wrong. Fever itself is not a normal condition, that is quite clear. Even a persistent, persistent fever is not a normal condition. However, when we are talking about inflation, really such a two-percent inflation shows that the economy is beating in good rhythm, and we cannot actually expect inflation to be zero. This is not an appropriate comparison. But today we have reached a situation in Estonia when compared to [human health], where fever remains stable above 40 degrees. If we don't do something, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, sooner or later, there will be nothing to do. It will not be sustainable if we do nothing to move forward. And I'll continue in the same view. Indeed, we have symptomatic treatment. When compared to fever, the most well-known antipyretic agents are those that are given in the case of inflammation, and there is also the treatment of specific causes which should actually be determined according to [case]. But the most common [is] treatment with an antibiotic, for example. If there is pneumonia, both fever and the bacterium causing pneumonia is often taken down, the infectious agents are destroyed. And then there's actually the prevention, which might be called health behavior. And that, too, is quite important throughout today's context when it comes to inflation. Symptomatic treatment may provide a momentary relief so that the patient does not fall asleep. Indeed, these methods have been through here and must be dealt with. For example, there really is some kind of support measures. It must be said that the support measure implemented during the previous heating period was targeted, but with a very high administrative burden for society. We must certainly also take into account the administrative burden for such support measures, because if we do a support measure with a high administrative burden, this same administrative burden will further increase inflation. You gotta understand that, too. And the second [measure] is tax evasion. Indeed, nothing can be done, the temperature must be lowered. And really, the big economies have been through here today. In fact, Germany has dealt with this issue in the past or in the longer term and has done its tax reductions. They are essential that there is nothing to be done. The place of discussion is, in my opinion, what is the length of this period, how we assess, when we get the fever suppressed. Of course, when we talk about energy, we should think about how we (a) can increase our energy supply or (b) can also achieve greater savings. These are quite trivial things, however, and we wouldn't be over it now. Indeed, all kinds of forms of energy production that can be relatively easily integrated, from solar parks to very capital capacity, which is a year-long investment when we are talking about a nuclear power plant. In between, we can fit all our briefcase. But there is also room for the restructuring of our current energy system, to which Urmas Reinsalu referred, and which has been mentioned in some parts of this Chamber, but has not been reached. [I mean] that we need to create an opportunity for the home consumer to buy [electricity] at a fixed price that is disconnected from today's speculative carbon trading and also from a relatively closed power exchange to give people the opportunity to buy a certain amount of electricity at a stable price. It can be implemented relatively quickly, and this is what helps to cure the causes of inflation. And now maybe we could take a look at this so-called health behavior. We haven't learned very well from what we've had here before. The best example is borrowing. Many countries have taken loans and maybe at times used it foolishly. I don't have the guts to say that everyone's gone exactly where they're supposed to go. However, we have not taken significant amounts of loans and, unfortunately, if we have not, it has also not been possible to invest sensible things. That's a fact. We haven't financed any stupid things either, but we haven't done any sensible things. Today we have 20% inflation. 20% is inflation! Think about it, put it on the borrowing side! In essence, this means that if we had to go on with the same percentage, hopefully at one point we have so much wisdom that we can take some measures and it goes down, then in five years this loan would have been figuratively covered, the money has gone so much cheaper. And I don't think we've really learned much from this today. We believe that Estonia is an independent entity that is independent of the world and the European economy. It's not like that. And indeed, it's been through here that we don't have a normal market today. The war that Russia has created in Ukraine is a condition that cannot be regarded as a normal market economy, and therefore certain administrative steps need to be taken. [Palaku], when we talk again about this kind of health behaviour, this kind of prevention in the field of energy, we have not made any economic calls either for investment or for improving energy availability. Here, actually, this field is still pretty much uneducated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U144	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Annely Akkermanni.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U145	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here to listen. Listening to these stories about inflation as a fever, I still felt like defining inflation as one more time, because this comparison is simply not appropriate or appropriate at all. The stability of money or, in our current context, the stability of price levels is a balance. It's like the equilibrium equation taught in the sixth grade, and from seventh grade chemistry comes the chemical equation balancing, and in so many disciplines it is taught over and over again. If the amount of money is not in balance with the amount of goods or services available on the market and prices are not stable, either inflation occurs when the money is more than the goods, or deflation occurs when the money is less than the goods. In this sense, inflation is a self-movement towards balance, or adjustment. Inflation is the adaptation of the market, the adjustment of the quantity of goods and money in the new place. In this sense, it is not even mathematically possible to pay for this grant. If we add money to the money side of this balanced formula, or subsidies, for which we are borrowing, this inflation will continue and seek a balance at higher prices. It is simply not possible to pay for this with grants! It's mathematically nonsense. So what can be done? As inflation is an adjustment, the country can help adapt. Middle-aged people, like most members of the Riigikogu who work daily, need to adjust their incomes and behaviours to the new price level. Who we have to help and who is hit hardest by inflation, however, are pensioners, precisely those who have worked at medium or lower wages. About the median, that's the limit. We must help them to cope with this standard of living that we consider to be decent in our cultural context. We also need to help those households that have one moneywinner with, for example, a mother, a father, and six children, or a mother with two minor children or a single parent. They need to be helped so that their living conditions are decent in our cultural context. And when we talk about inflation in the country, we have to collect the money that we want to help the weaker, whether they are weak from youth or old age, from our middle class. Helping the middle class or paying off inflation mathematically simply is not possible. If we do this, we'll prolong the agony. The market is looking for a balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-07_U146	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I am very grateful to the initiator of today's debate, which is the Special Committee on State Budget Control. I am grateful to the Governor of Eesti Pank, Madis Müller, for his presentation, the presentation and answers of the economic expert Raivo Varele, the chairman of the special committee on state budget control, Urmas Reinsalu, the secretariat of the committee and all the members of the Riigikogu who participated in today's debate. As always in the debate on a crucial national issue, we will not take a decision by the Riigikogu at the end of the debate. That concludes today's first item. There is no second item today, so today's agenda has been exhausted. Good luck!
