ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday, on the 16th working week. First, you can hand over drafts and enquiries if someone has such a desire. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 14 ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, we are submitting an inquiry to Mr Kalle Laanet, Minister of Defence. The inquiry concerns the surrender of 155 million hobbits to Ukraine. Of course, we need to help Ukraine, and we have no doubt about that. But it is not very correct if we read about this Delfi portal and there is no mention of it in the Commission. But the most important question, of course, here is that, as a result of Ukraine's war experience, how do we intend to replace these weapons systems, because it is not yet included in these packages. We should, as a whole, look at our card capacity and, of course, also consider completing the armoured maneuvering capacity on the very basis of the experience that the Ukrainian war has now given at this very current stage. Here we have three questions. How many [Hubs] did we give up? How does this affect the ability to fire? But the most important question is: does the experience of the ongoing phase of the Russian-Ukrainian war lead to an increase in the Estonian military's survival, in addition to the planned two infantry brigades' artillery battalion K9 Thunder with mobile artillery artillery and multiple rocket launcher batteries? Are there plans and ways to strengthen the sustainability of the defence community?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U3	There's no one else who wants to speak. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the Management Board will deal with it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U4	60 Riigikogu ambassadors signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U5	Let's get to the agenda. We have three items on the agenda today, the first of which is the Financial Supervision Authority... Five. I'm sorry! We have five items on the agenda today, the first of which is the Financial Supervision Authority's 2021 report. Let me brief you on the procedure. First there is the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, which lasts up to 20 minutes, followed by a round of questions for members of the Riigikogu, where each member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question, and at the end of all there are negotiations that can be attended by representatives of political groups. But first there's a call. Please, Kilvar Kessler!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U6	Morning! Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to the Financial Supervision Act, we submitted the annual report of the inspection to the Riigikogu. The annual report covers the most important events, trends and actions in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision in 2021, as well as some ideas about the risks that have developed this year on the financial market. Since this year's 20th anniversary of the Financial Supervision Authority has come true, a few words about FI will begin. The Financial Supervision Authority is a joint institution between the state and Eesti Pank. FI The supervisory body of FI is the Supervisory Board, where the two main parties referred to are represented. The board of directors of the Financial Supervision Authority; all supervisory decisions are made by collective management. The statutory central task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to ensure the stability and credibility of the financial market. To do this, we allow the market, we remove it, we impose obligations and we ban it. Let's see if our supervisory control organisation complies with the business model; whether they have the appropriate amount and quality of capital to cover risks; how financial services are developed, perhaps the service lifecycle; whether financial intermediaries are owned and run by persons who comply with the requirements of the law. The Financial Supervision Authority is not a criminal investigative authority or a court in individual disputes. A few hundred financial intermediation businesses are supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority, but many types of business are not subject to our supervision. Our organisation employs 120 workers in the circa, with which we are manned to be the smallest financial supervisory authority in the European Union. The Financial Supervision Authority operates under a separate law only in the public interest and only in accordance with the rules laid down in the Act. The state budget will not be a cent of the Financial Supervision Authority. The law guarantees the independence of the inspection, as is the case with the courts and the central bank. This principle stems from international standards. The fact that the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority gives an annual overview directly to Parliament is part of the independence of financial supervision. But now beyond the market. The largest part of the Estonian financial market is banking, followed by second pillar investment funds and non-life insurance. Each has its own specificities and the associated risk environment, which must be taken into account in supervisory activities. The most important risk across all sectors is cyber risk, as well as transparent corporate governance throughout. In banking, the supervisory focus is mainly on credit risk. Banks borrow money from depositors. In doing so, it is important that a reasonable consideration be given to the likelihood of recovering this money to depositors. The loan portfolio of banks grew rapidly in 2021. This increased particularly rapidly in smaller credit institutions. Such a trend towards financial supervision means that banks' control systems may not be ready for an adequate assessment of new loans or that new loans are consciously risk-taking. In both cases, the Financial Supervision Authority will require larger capital buffers from banks. The latter can cover potential loan losses without endangering depositors' resources and the financial system as a whole. The Financial Supervision Authority, together with the European Central Bank, requested a total buffer of EUR 609 million from the banking sector in 2021. Such prevention has a significant impact on risk management. It should be noted that, in practice, "needs a buffer' means an annual cycle in which supervision assesses the bank's business plan and business model, organisation, capital, etc., makes an analysis and, on this basis, determines the individual capital buffer corresponding to each individual bank. Last year, 2021, the pension reform assessed by the Supreme Court as constitutional. As part of the implementation of the reform, the Financial Supervision Authority tested the ability of the funds to pay out money to all those wishing to leave the second pillar pension system. In addition, we monitored the digital capacity of the pension register to make payments. The Financial Supervision Authority was heightened at the level of preparedness to intervene, if necessary, in order to remedy the failures. Our supervision subjects fulfilled their obligations without significant problems and no major problems were revealed when leaving the second pillar pension system. On the upheaval and business continuity, our attention was also heightened at the beginning of 2022, or this year, when Ukraine's war ignited with even higher flames. Thanks to good cooperation, the Financial Supervision Authority had previously been given serious suspicion of a major regional bubble coming. Such events can talk about rapidly materialising risks, such as cyber attacks and panic in the area of cash, and more slowly emerging risks, such as the gradual deterioration of credit quality due to changes in the economic environment. That is why, already in January 2022, as the first financial supervisory authority in the euro area, we started preparing our market for improving preparedness in the cyber field and implementing international financial sanctions, as well as for liquidity. In the early days of the war, there was some outflow of deposits from the banking sector, but it soon stabilized. The difficulty of applying international financial sanctions currently lies primarily with the financial sector. The ex-ante demandingness of the Financial Supervision Authority to enhance risk control in the field of money laundering will significantly facilitate the application of international sanctions by financial intermediaries. At the same time, it has to be said that this is a very high and rather complex administrative burden for the sector. In the cyber field, the Financial Supervision Authority estimates that larger financial intermediaries are well prepared and able to deal with cyber risks. However, the capacity of financial intermediaries also depends much on the digital capacity of their cooperation partners, as well as the nature and extent of cyber attacks. Financial supervision is still demanding against its supervisory entities in the field of cyber-sackness and is holding the initiative to address the issue. According to the Financial Supervision Authority, the immediate impact of war on the financial position of supervisors is currently limited. However, the indirect impact is of great potential due to changes in the economic environment. When the impact of COVID-19 on the Estonian economy was relatively small overall, hitting certain specific economic segments, I would like to be an optimist in view of the future, but I still want to share my concerns with you. Inflation, monetary policy and more conservative financing conditions, prices of raw materials, energy, securities and real estate, instability in supply chains etc. will have a significant impact on the economic environment in the near future. A serious risk is stagflation, where high inflation is accompanied by a slightly growing or declining economy. In that case, the cost of living will rise, but the job will go away. It all affects the solvency, trust and choices of businesses and households. As a society, it is reasonable to acknowledge these risks and to discuss in good time different ways of managing, reshaping or accepting risks. All of this is important to financial supervision, since the realisation of credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, as well as political risk, may lead to bubbles in the financial sector, which may therefore no longer work in a desirable way for society or, in worse cases, lead to significant additional costs, for example, where the guarantee fund needs to start compensating for deposits. So that all of this doesn't fall apart, I'll give you a few cold figures to illustrate. Between 2008 and 2017, the European Commission has approved State aid to the financial sector by the Member States of the European Union for a total amount of EUR 5.2 trillion. A trillion is a million million. A billion is a thousand million and a trillion is a million million. So 5.2 million. By reducing this amount to Estonia's gross domestic product, we will be able to see that Estonia should have taken up debts or otherwise raised 10 billion euros in the budget as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, if our banking had been in the same position as the European Union average. However, Estonia has not had to spend a cent to save banks due to the previous financial crisis. In the near future, the Financial Supervision Authority will focus on the sustainability of financial intermediaries and the existence of sufficient buffers to absorb losses due to risks without jeopardising the rights of depositors and other creditors. At present, banks' credit portfolios are strong, capitalisation good and profitability is available. These are all important features that will allow a more optimistic view of the more complex circumstances ahead. For example, banks have available own funds with assigned buffers of EUR 2.7 billion, representing 8.6% of the loan portfolio. During the previous financial crisis in 2008, bank loan losses were 5,4% of the loan portfolio at solo level. Right now is a good time to test the functioning of the financial safety net. For example, the Guarantee Fund must have an appropriate framework for the performance of its tasks, including borrowing. As regards the complexity of the existing framework, it has to be said that God's sun will go to the creator before the operations necessary for the additional financing of the Guarantee Fund are completed. In this area, we feel the goodwill of our partners, including the Ministry of Finance, in simplifying and tidying things up. We already need to understand whether the framework for the realisation of loan guarantees, insolvency and remedies is already such as to lead to the social consequences of the crisis. Do we have processes and capabilities in place, in which cases and how will the state help the default debt holders back on track? The worst situation is that it is only in the heat of the crisis that the state expects the banks to carry out their social tasks, while the banks, as businesses, expect the state to bear such obligations. Experience shows that decisions made in confusion and haste have the potential to grieve all stakeholders involved. Here I understand that yesterday in this Chamber there was already a third reading of the bill for the insolvency of a natural person, and you also adopted it. I am really glad that we think Parliament is doing the right thing. Any organization and predestination is clearly in the interest of the financial system. I think that today is a good opportunity to move the gap between professional financial intermediaries and consumers to a new level. In competitive court proceedings, the common man is not the same as the big bank, since a person who is himself in debt in a crisis and who lacks funds. The Financial Supervision Authority is ready to meet here and create a dispute solver in our language, the financial ombudsman, if the legislator allows it. The Financial Supervision Authority still does not have the right to impose a large amount of fines for serious infringements of supervisory entities to businesses. In my opinion, the current system for financial sector businesses is in a bad way Prussianly clumsy and far away. Various international organisations have highlighted this bottleneck. Many of our colleagues, other financial supervisors in the European Union, have the solutions we want. Estonia, however, is still claimed to have such a distinctive constitutional order, where it is in no way easier to decide to impose large fines on professional financial intermediaries. As a country, therefore, we still have to take back the damage caused by the infringement, not as a fine for society, but as a clear and straightforward one, the tens of million euros needed for the state budget and, more importantly, to give it to the country where the simpler procedure exists and where the corrupt bank is also operating, although the damage there may not be, or is smaller than ours. We have illustrated and talked about the problem since 2004 and we will continue until this is done in Estonia. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Supreme Court has stipulated in its constitutional review that economic and financial stability is necessary to enable the state of Estonia to fulfil its constitutional obligations. The Supreme Court has also found that financial sustainability is the constitutional value of Estonia. Once again, financial stability is necessary to enable the Estonian state to fulfil its constitutional obligations. According to the law, the central task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability, to ensure the fair and transparent functioning of financial markets. The Yearbook 2021 of the Financial Supervision Authority, made available to you, describes the performance of these tasks during the 2021 accounting year, the 19th year of operation of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U7	Thank you. It is now possible to ask questions. Please, Riho Breivel!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm a little confused when I look at our, how to say, reports. If I look at our inflation figures, they are really bigger than those of our neighbours, and we are in a single monetary system, in a sense. And you're saying, in fact, we, how can I put it, could have been even greater. This means that neighbouring countries with even greater use of European money have a lower inflation figure. And here the press is also trying to explain to us that since we have too much money and too little goods, this is the cause of inflation. I'd like to hear from you what's really behind our number, the size indicator. How can we understand this properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U9	Mr Breivel, thank you for your question. The question is well-founded and understandable. On the other hand, I may have to grieve you a little bit, the Financial Supervision Authority does not deal directly with the issue of inflation or its control and management. We are dealing with this through the financial sector, making sure that the financial sector is able to withstand changes in the economic environment. Inflation can, in principle, be dealt with when it comes to the country, with two instruments: monetary policy and fiscal policy. As far as fiscal policy is concerned, the same body as I am speaking for today is the only authority. And for monetary policy, the European Central Bank has exclusive competence in the euro area. The main monetary policy instrument of the European Central Bank is the regulation of interest rates. Now, I believe that Eesti Pank, who is in fact the one responsible for monetary policy in Estonia, is certainly more competent and more legitimate in its information field in terms of knowledge to answer your good question. I owe you an answer. I know that the different inflation components have been defined by Eurostat and the European Central Bank and can vary by Member State. That could be the reason. These reasons may also vary. As far as I know about this area, you look at it in two: there is a keinistic view of things where one inflation may have different causes, then there is a monetary view, which says that there is only one reason for inflation, and that is monetary policy. This is where I will stop once again by apologizing for the fact that this is not the real competence of the Financial Supervision Authority and the area to be dealt with. But the question is very good and well founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U10	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Killer Kessler! Quite smoothly, virtual currencies, crypto money, bitcoins have become part of our financial markets with different names. Yesterday you gave a very interesting interview in Estonian Television, and this topic also rose up there. Please, can you explain for a moment how we stand with them? As far as you're concerned, what's going on at the crypto market? We read the news from time to time, but is that the end of the deal, or do you have a view of it or a chance to check it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U12	Thank you for your question, Mrs Tiidus. This question is very broad and I am happy to talk about it. We will start from there that, in the case of Estonia, when it comes to different state institutions, the Financial Supervision Authority is only affected by crypto mediators to the extent that they operate through a regulated financial market. Mostly in Estonia, this division of competences is such that crypto mediators are registered and supervised by the Money Laundering Data Bureau. This is the starting point. Now, more broadly speaking of crypto assets, studies have been carried out that, for example, about 15% of households in the United States have invested in crypto assets. I believe that this figure may be even higher in Estonia. In fact, this investment in crypto assets, the number of businesses and households involved, has already grown quite large by now. Now, where is it the interest of the financial sector or the financial system in crypto assets? Basically, it comes from two moments. Because crypto assets are not very intensively regulated, these assets are quite volatile in the markets. We've seen a pretty sharp fall in the crypto market lately, before that, there was a steady rise all the time. These downfalls and ups can also be manipulated, and we don't know that. Market manipulation on stock exchanges, regulated financial markets, is a crime and is deterred, i.e. these markets are not manipulated in this way. In the crypto markets such manipulation is not a crime and there really is as God guides, and as demand and supply whether good and bad motives govern this market, so it is. This volatility may therefore be a problem for households. If you've invested your last savings in cryptoware, and tomorrow 50% of those savings are gone, that's gonna hurt. If I had invested myself, I would be evil too, but I have not invested in it precisely for these reasons and do not advise anyone else to do it. Everyone, of course, shapes their own financial decisions. This volatility, such people's dissatisfaction can also be passed on to a regulated market, so ah, well, this one gang of thugs is all. And here's where we're already curious that crypto markets maybe should be more regulated. Now we come closer to home, to Europe, to the European Union. The European Union has developed a draft legislative act, the abbreviation of which is the MiCA, let us say, the regulation on the markets for virtual tools, its draft. Basically, what this legislation does is that it seeks to regulate these same crypto markets and the activities of crypto mediators. Personally, I think this MiCA is a great thing. Not that the Member States in one large economic area are all trying to resolve this issue in any way on their own, but we are doing it as a larger region. This excludes certain types of transnational, say, cash flows or some kind of risk transfer. I believe that sooner or later the United States will also regulate its crypto market and that other major jurisdictions will probably follow. As far as I know, some of the major jurisdictions, such as the People's Republic of China, have banned crypto offers. Others here on the news can read, like the Russian Federation, again saying that they very much welcome and would very much like to settle it in the crypt. There are also some reasons, perhaps a reference to the lack of regulation of the same market and certain risks. That's my answer. Now, in the case of Estonia, I think that when this spring-winter Riigikogu strengthened our anti-money laundering law, which concerned regulating crypto mediators, it was a step in the very right direction. I know the Money Laundering Data Bureau is now in the process of implementing this law. I think it's gonna take some logical time for this application to work out. It was a pretty big increase in the so-called regulatory burden on our crypto intermediaries, I know it, and I think it's going to take some time for something like this to settle down and then be able to move on to either MiCA or some other legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U13	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, thank you for introducing the report. But I will now come to this day and ask this question: is the work of the Financial Supervision Authority affected by the war launched by the Russian Federation in Ukraine? As you know, whenever there are such major conflicts, financial sector operators are also looking for ways to swim in this shitty water. Has this somehow affected your work and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U15	Thank you again for a very good question. I'm glad. Very meaningful and such very up-to-date topics are in the air, I am pleased to respond to them and to introduce you to the activities of my institution. The Ukrainian war, really, we have this information about this serious conflict and preliminary information or quite reliable suspicion was earlier, and we started adapting our work to it in our institution. What does that mean? Basically, you try to figure out if and how this risk environment will change. Once again, the risks posed by the Ukrainian war can be divided into so-called rapid risks and slow risks. If they are more or less understandable, you can already define the points you want to degree in the financial market. And if these points make sense what you want to degree, you're going to set up a reporting system. This word'reporting', of course, sounds very clumsy, but it does not mean that someone is doing something on paper, for example, it also means weekly telephone conferences, which we actually set up, after the Ukrainian war broke out or increased, with banks, i.e. a collection of information, a more intensive collection of information on both rapid risks and slow risks. Now I'm gonna go out on those quick risks. Fast risks, the first problem we had was a bank run. People panic about war. By the way, I can tell you that we had a Polish surveillance visit here the day before yesterday, and they were here yesterday. We also know that people in Lithuania also panicked a little, and cash demand increased. In Poland, it was in the region bordering the Ukrainian border, right? In Lithuania it was for some other reasons. In the same scenario that people panic, we were afraid together with Eesti Pank. Of course, the banks were well prepared to fill in ATMs with cash so that they would not be empty. Then people panic even more when they can't get cash out of the machine. And now, afterwards, it can be said that yes, a bit of cash demand increased, even well increased at the beginning of the war. But since money came from inside the wall, and people see that the systems are working, this demand also decreased. So we managed this thing well in cooperation with the central bank. However, there was a trick to inform people that if, for example, cyber risks, which I am about to talk about, materialize, the internet is no longer working, then there should be cash at home. But you're gonna have to let me know. And there's no way you can do these things at once, about that, so now you're gonna have to put in a lot of cash right now. Then everybody's rushing to the ATMs, they're going to run dry, and it's going to amplify the panic. In cooperation with the central bank, we were able to stabilise the situation regarding liquidity risks in our language. Now it's a cyber risk. There was a scenario that Estonia would be hit by important cyber attacks. Of course, we wanted our major monitoring agents, vital service providers, to be good, to put more IT resources and people and material resources in order to prevent and deter all forms of cyber attacks. As far as we know, the banks did. So far, this readiness is heightened. But of course, banks do not offer all the IT services themselves, but they also have some bought from outside. In the initial phase, there were certain weaknesses in those parts that were purchased from the outside, and today most or many of these weaknesses have also been resolved. Cyber risks did not materialise. There were, as we say to each other, such door-kissing, but serious attacks so far have not been against the Estonian financial sector, cyber attacks. Those are quick risks. Now, speaking of slower risks, we call them credit risk. This means either that the loans are going to get mad quickly now or that they are going to go a little slower. Now, quick resentment is that loans have been granted to businesses such as Russian businesses, Ukrainian businesses or Belarusian businesses. For some reason, these are currency controls or any other restrictions by these countries, they are no longer able to return the loan. The direct links with Russia, Belarus and Ukraine between our banks, both in the form of depositors and in the form of loans, are basically non-existent; this number was very small. Indirect effects. They are also in development; they depend on the overall environment and welfare of the economy. In the beginning, we also mapped the indirect effects. At first, if my memory doesn't fool me, the indirect effects on the credit portfolio were about 3% or a little less. Indirect influence is on the basis of all assumptions, such as those businesses whose owners are somehow related to Russia, Ukraine or Belarus. Those businesses whose economic activity is related to Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, we have mapped out. At the time, this effect was around 3%. Now newer, second round mapping shows that this effect can be 5% of the credit portfolio, so much business is affected by the Ukrainian war in general. I guess this situation is always changing, dynamic. Economic relations, nor are we so capable that we can manage all economic relations with their second-round effects and third-round effects all the time online-mapping, such capacity we lack. You're just looking at it from time to time and a little bit afterwards, and you're trying to draw conclusions on it. Overall: banks have quite large buffers in terms of credit risk to cover credit losses. However, these buffers in the banks are spread slightly differently, but in general, as our financial supervisor, we are still quite satisfied with these buffers. This is a brief description of our actions regarding the war in Ukraine and their impact on our financial sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U17	Good manager! Dear speaker, thank you for your presentation. Well, to put it figuratively, you're among those 600 subjects of usury, like the superintendent. You complained here that, for some reason, these levers are too loose in Estonia under the leadership of this flock and that for some reason they cannot be applied. Would you a little open up the reasons why this is so in Estonia? But among other things, I'm monitoring your Facebook account he's meeting in the morning, and on May 7, you met a LNG tanker. There I ask, among other things, is he still under your house on the Viimsi Peninsula?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U18	Mr Ernits, thank you for your questions. Yeah, just so you know, I'm a hobby photographer, and from time to time, I take pictures not only of birds that are the main ones I take pictures of, but also of some interesting ships, which, if I take pictures of birds on my seashore, will be on the horizon. And it's really true that once there was a LNG tanker like this, but I think it's long gone. I don't know where. I wasn't so curious about where he was from. By the way, I've seen a Portuguese submarine there once, and I took a picture of it. That was pretty interesting. I was just looking at exactly what the submarine is, what the flag is. When I came closer, I could see that fortunately it was Portuguese. Okay. Now, to that toolbox. We're not generally complaining about surveillance, we have a decent toolbox. Well, complaining is such a bad word. But figuratively speaking, what do we have? We have howitzers, if you could say so, this is a withdrawal of a licence, we have Swiss pocket knives, these are small prohibitions- orders and precepts. But we don't have a gun on the wall, and they're fines. We have an opportunity to fine EUR 32000. It's a change in the financial sector, it doesn't discourage anyone, nothing, it's a simple profit-cost calculation. You're just one minute worth making a goat, right, because you're gonna pay 32,000 and you're gonna go on happily. It doesn't have to be like this. Therefore, the EU acquis provides for fines of up to 10% of net annual turnover in order to be sufficiently dissuasive. Now you're asking why. I wish I knew why that is. It's just that we've been in this constant dialogue with the Ministry of Justice since 2004. This goes back to some sort of dogma of penal law that distinguishes between crimes and misdemeanours and there can be no other fines on their own. In this sense, we are quite specific in the European Union, right? I know many countries where there is also a criminal law framework, but there is also a framework for administrative fines in the financial sector. A simple example: since we have this criminal justice framework, it is a misdemeanour when we fine some banks, our colleagues in Frankfurt, for example, are already completely panicked that they are now criminals. What do we do now? After all, everyone in Estonia is a criminal. And then we're trying to explain, no-no, that we have this kind of academic approach here. No one understands very well because, including me, I need an effective rifle, I want that rifle, we have written the bill in the Financial Supervision Authority, we have presented it where we need it, we wait and we want it. As I said, we would not want to leave here before we have this gun on the wall, because it guarantees such a more level playing field in the financial market. Otherwise, it's those who make the goats, they get a competitive advantage, and I don't think it's pretty. It's not pretty as a signal, and it's not pretty in terms of competition either. The financial penalties, the lush financial penalties and the related procedure are, in our view, the bottlenecks. Once again, we do not want all of this, we do not want to apply it to natural persons, to people. Who we're talking about are professional, capable financial intermediaries who can understand what they're doing, including when they're breaking something, and they can protect themselves against us. That's what I'm talking about. This framework does not have to be the case for some roadbreakers, ordinary people who can't live in any way outside the road and maybe need to be more protected. It's a short, short story about fines. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U19	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would also like to thank you for your meaningful report, both today and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But my question is about the fate of the second pillar of pension. In the annual report you write that the first phase of the dismantling of this pillar went smoothly and the disbursements went smoothly, but now the situation has changed this year. I think you have analyses, assessments and forecasts of the second pillar pension funds' outflow in the coming deadlines. Why do I ask? The thing is, pension funds are doing bad this year, they're making a minus for investors because stocks and bonds are doing bad. This market for bears may continue until the beginning of next year or even longer. And secondly, people have problems with their livelihoods because of inflation. How do you predict the outflow of funds from the second pillar funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U21	I will start from there that we once formed such an attitude in the Financial Supervision Authority that we do not assess whether this reform, which was carried out, is good or bad, but we apply the law that has been passed on to us. Whether it's good or bad is the subject of this hall, isn't it? You will lay down these rules, and we will be happy to follow these rules and make sure that our guardians do the same. Indeed, this behaviour of the financial markets or capital markets is a bit related to monetary policy, and capital markets may also be in some further trend. And indeed, if everyone has to make their own decisions, I am now thinking in the second pillar of unit-holders, future pensioners, whether or not to be inside this system, given that if the markets are in decline and you take out the money from there, then the markets are on the rise and then it is that if you were inside the pension funds, you could have had that value or the assets higher. So I think it's a complicated decision for every person. Of course, it must be put in the individual context of each person, and each one lives his or her own life. Perhaps there really are such conditions for a person who needs to withdraw money, and that cannot be ruled out. But in the general conditions of a falling market, go into anxiety and... Once again, I am not giving financial advice, but life has shown that it is still not too reasonable. I think it is worth taking such longer views, especially as regards pensions. Once again, if a person is highly disciplined, this pension collection does not have to take place within the framework of the second pillar of pension provided by the state. I think what the country has provided is a good thing. It's a good thing it exists. But if, for some reason, a person feels that he or she wants to collect this pension somehow on his or her own, and he or she feels that he or she is more successful in doing so, then that cannot be ruled out. That's the kind of answer I can give you, right? Forecasting is always ungrateful. In general, we are trying to see how our subjects' systems function in terms of digital payout capabilities and the stress of the funds as well. If the funds' assets decrease, then that is the case, the net net asset value of the NAV will simply be smaller and people will probably get less money, those who want to go out of the system. It's where your question was addressed. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U22	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U23	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Thank you, indeed, for these in-depth answers, all the respondents on the board would be so colorful and clear. I admit I'm not a disciplined collector and I'm putting my mind at peace in the second pillar. I'm waiting for a chance to start collecting more. But I'm actually going to ask you again. In the Committee on Finance, I asked you that, in conditions of high inflation, there are clearly people and households who find themselves in trouble with the monthly cost of buying fuel, food or energy bills, and it is logical that some of them try to find out that this difficulty is temporary, either to cover their needs with quick loans, small loans, consumer credit. What are the opportunities to mitigate the risks that in a few years' time we will have a huge number of people who are struggling to meet their financial obligations? What are the levers that could be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U24	Mrs. Sikkut, thank you for the question. I will quickly write down some thoughts or keywords, because the question is wide enough and at the same time topical. If you look at this so-called fast-track portfolio that has happened to it, then indeed, in the third quarter of last year, it was evident that the volume of fast-track loans decreased. Maybe it actually ties up a little bit with Mr Sõerdi's question. It was obvious that people didn't take so much fast credit, or let's say politely, didn't take no consumer credit, because the money from the second pillar was probably taken out and the opportunities from it were harnessed. In the fourth quarter of last year, consumer credit, in particular fast-track loans, is on the rise again. Now, the first question is whether to do anything with the consumer credit market. What do we have now? We have a section in the Law of Obligations Act entitled "The Principle of Responsible Borrowing." This paragraph is one A4 page and it is quite flexible. And as supervisors, we have the task of making sure that consumer credit providers also comply with this paragraph. But since this paragraph is flexible, they can also perform it very differently. In this sense, we do not have any quantified metrics on the basis of which we can tell creditors that, no, you cannot do that, for example, the debt-income ratio that exists in your internal rules is wrong, the path is completely different. We're gonna make sure you have that debt-to-income ratio in the internal rules. Now that you're looking at the market, the market players are a little afraid of us. They have this problem that if there are no quantified requirements to comply with this principle of responsible borrowing, they will bear, like our risk, that maybe today is a bad weather, then Kessler says that now must be like this, and tomorrow is a beautiful weather, then says differently. From there we come to the first thought that, I think, the principle of responsible lending could be considered in the same way as housing loans, or DSTI, or how this debt-to-income ratio might exist in a single applicant, something like this could also be considered for consumer loans. Of course, these figures could be a little different, but this is something to discuss. This would allow, on the one hand, to protect those people who may not have to borrow. On the other hand, of course, it is again the question of whether the state should protect anyone, right? Vib say that everyone is free, I totally understand when I describe it. Well, these are the options. But once again, the same place of DTI thinking. Another thing where we see room in the Financial Supervision Authority to improve the functioning of the consumer credit market is to set up a so-called positive credit register or to provide a framework for it, to put it on the market. You see, there is currently a competitive advantage in the consumer credit market for market participants with larger databases that see consumers' payment behaviour better on the basis of their databases and are able to make better offers to people. A positive credit register is one that allows not only to see payment failures but also how much financial obligations consumers have, and such a positive credit register, let's say, increases competition in the consumer credit market. Most Member States of the European Union have such positive credit registers; Estonia does not have such credit registers. There have also been long discussions in the Banking Union on this issue. Some banks have also been a little more conservative in terms of the need for this register, but, as I know recently, the Banking Association thinks that a positive credit register is a good idea and a good idea that should be realised. We in the Financial Supervision Authority have thought the same thing, yes. That's different. Third thing. If you look at consumer credit as a life map of a financial product, what do we see? Its birth is relatively regulated, i.e. the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries. There is also supervision, which says how one product is put together, built, how it is sold, that is what I said, this VLP, the principle of responsible lending. And that's the end of it. But sometimes it happens that the credit is not refunded the way the terms of the contract prescribe, and then it is given to the collection companies to solve the product. The collection companies are now, as we call themselves, such a blind corner in terms of the financial market in a room where people or debtors may end up in the perimeter of the collection companies and are treated there as usual in this market. Should it be satisfied or not? It seems to us that there is also room for repair and additional light. This is something to deal with, I think that the entire life cycle of one financial service would be uniformly regulated. Not at first, but when things get bad, it's like society doesn't care what's going on anymore. If we've already put our beak in it, we'll do it in the same way over the course of our lives. And the last thing is the financial ombudsman that I marked for you here in my little review. It is clear that these financially less capable people, in particular, simply do not go to court with professional financial intermediaries. There's a competitive procedure in court, Justitia has a connection to her eyes, and for her, the parties are equal. Each financial intermediary is more capable of competing in litigation than any borrower's ordinary person. This discourages them from defending their rights, even if they may have a burning right. In our Financial Supervision Authority, we see that this is a problem, not only for us, but for many financial market players. This is a problem for this same image of the financial market. Financial market participants also want the financial market to have a good reputation and their customers to be satisfied with it. Because financial services are consumed anyway, that's not the issue. Financial Ombudsman. It exists in many countries. In some countries, he is in financial supervision. Why is he in financial supervision? Therefore, to ensure a better exchange of information between the Ombudsman and supervision, because the Ombudsman, who has been informed of the creation of this same financial service, of his sale, of this life cycle, see, is a little more difficult to fool, isn't it, even in competitive proceedings? This is one of the reasons why these ombudsmen have been created. And another thing: it facilitates or facilitates the work of the courts, and the courts also have some kind of perception, which could be on the financial market this kind of good conduct or rulebook. These are some of the thoughts that concern consumer credit, including the high-speed credit market. But in general I think that, if you look at where we come from, before this consumer credit market was not regulated. Maybe I'll do a little too much here, too. I think that consumer credit companies are still qualitatively on a different level, especially larger ones. Well, they're aware of our existence. We have, quite recently, made quite a tone of commitments and precepts for some who have tried to apply these very strange business models in the market, which have then tried to ignore the provisions of the CPR. As far as it is known, if it exceeds the ceiling, the contract will be void and the consumer will be protected as a result of the Law of Obligations Act. We have reached quite good compromises there with some market participants and have completed certain such business practices. We have some important work to do. You see, the same principle of responsible lending applies only to a case of credit with a price that is like an interest. But now we have such a new trend that people also get credit for buying goods at a post-paid store that there is no price, apparently there is no price for this money. This price is simply placed in the price of the goods and then it is as if this VLP or the principle of responsible lending does not apply. It's not okay for us. We believe that all consumer credits in substance must be treated in a uniform manner. We know that the European Commission, the European Union, is working on this issue. Of course, we also expect this regulation from the European Union, but regardless of this, we are already in dialogue with market players, whether it is quite okay, such a market practice. Thanks for the questions. And with that, I'm gonna stop my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U25	But there's one more question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U26	Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your presentation. There was a story here in the media a few days ago where, in Estonian terms, the big bank refused to finance drones. And the other, also in Estonian terms, a proper bank did it very quickly. There was stretching-stretching, there were some hesitations, and perhaps a little too much red tape, just in the first half. Well, every bank, like the right to judge itself, I admit that, but on the other hand... This was particularly the case with Ukraine. Don't we need any more specific rules here to make this handwriting more uniform? At the moment, the handwriting was very uneven. In the light of this example, how do you comment on this issue more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U27	Thank you! Yeah, I caught that story too. And actually, he did, I guess, on the same day, another story in his eye. The story of the drones to which the questioner refers is that people tried to help Ukrainian fighters and transfer money to them for the purchase of drones, right? There was a glitch like this, at least for one bank. On the same day there was another story: the Defence Police Department, as far as I know, captured some people who wanted to send drones to the Russian side again, right? Now that you put yourself in this banker's position, for him these two cases are just documents. Sometimes you don't have a crystal ball to figure out who's good and who's bad. That's actually the way it is. The only way you can manage your risks, or bank risks, in this situation is if you violate a financial sanction, which is actually a rather harsh story, can be done with the end of business, then you want to be very precise, you want to be bureaucratic in this sense, both in good and bad. And that is the only way to deal with it. Now, the rules provide some general standards or values. Each bank itself states how bureaucratic it is to apply these rules. This could be a competitive advantage. For example, people read in the paper, say aha, they feel that one bank is somewhat unfriendly, the other one is more friendly, and they make their own decisions on this basis, don't they? This morning, before I came here, I made a payment at the Internet Bank. This bank informed me first that in 59 days, my account will be closed if I don't update my client records. I've updated the data. I've accepted that this is the airport, this is the metal detector you have to go through, you have to do these operations. I couldn't get into this house unless I came through the metal detector. It started beeping there, by the way, but we got why it was beeping. These are the actions that need to be undertaken to mitigate or control any risks. I'm certainly not saying everything's perfect. That's the same reference to a newspaper article, so there are minor glitches, right? Surely the banks are making their own conclusions, isn't it? I don't think the manager of this bank was walking around in his chest, and I'm glad that a story like that appeared in the paper. I think it's the other way around. I guess that's what they learn. But from time to time, these things and these things happen, and this is a somewhat new reality, that maybe financial services are a little slower and more uncomfortable because of global crosses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U28	Thank you. And now the questions are really over. Thank you very much for your presentation. We can go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Yeah. Riina Sikkut, please! I'm more disciplined with time than with a pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U29	I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U30	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U31	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Director General of the Financial Supervision Authority, for both the presentation and the very thorough replies. Indeed, this type of substantial strong response would like to see much more in this Chamber. I'm talking about two things. First of all, really, very well reflected the direct and indirect effects of the war on our financial sector, on the risks that the Financial Supervision Authority has done to mitigate these risks and on which we should be cautious in the future, we have an overview of this, as well as the expectations of this hall. There are things that we can do better to ensure and protect financial stability, including people who are consumers of financial products and services, but who, if necessary, cannot adequately defend their rights. Also, by entering into a service or a contract, maybe this financial literacy is not good enough to understand what these risks are in the long run. Since we have talked very much about inflation and its effects in this Chamber, it is understandable that very many people are trying to cope on their own with the first run. I guess a lot of us are optimists and think that life is still going to get better - this salary is going to rise, if the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank are already forecasting a rapid increase in the average wage, then eventually it will reach me too. In this expectation, perhaps there is also a greater willingness to alleviate temporary difficulties by taking consumer credit or a quick loan in order to really pay the extraordinarily large electricity or gas bill or to cope with other increased costs. But we see that these risks are correlated, there are difficulties in coping, lower financial literacy and, in fact, the risk that wages do not grow at the same rate as average wages. These risks are linked. And in order to avoid that we have a whole bunch of people who are struggling to serve their monthly loan obligations after high inflation, not to mention that they have reached a collection or somewhere else with the subject of fulfilling their obligations. So, as has been pointed out: a positive credit register, the granting of higher fines to the Financial Supervision Authority as such an additional way, I do not know, to demand or impose rules and to establish or establish a financial ombudsman's position, in order to enable people to better defend their rights, to settle disputes if there is a dispute with such a larger, strong party. Okay. Secondly, I would like to talk about customer-centredness or the consumer's view. Indeed, the Financial Supervision Authority actually stands for the protection of all our money and assets. If we make a decision based on advertising too, then we can actually be sure that the financial institution is capitalised, that the necessary buffers exist, that the rules are followed, that management is responsible. We can actually expect all of this, and then we don't have to go any further, so we can make our decisions on the basis of much less information. But just as the waitress explained that she updated her customer information at the bank today, we all have this experience, and the need for adaptation. If we're used to going through some standard procedure at the airport, I have a feeling we're not in the financial sector yet. We don't understand what the change is. Because the money laundering regulation has changed, it is stricter and it requires more from financial institutions, all banks and other institutions are aware that they comply with these requirements. But this gap to the consumer, I think there is still a step to be taken. For people to understand what has changed and what their role is, what they have to do and how they have to contribute, and that the instruments that move are fair between banks or between banks in different countries. In order not to be able to clean up money obtained through crime, the risk of fraud and all that would be less. In fact, it is in the interests of all of us to have order in the financial sector, and we must contribute. But even as a client of a bank, I have not really received such instructions or understood what I have to do exactly now in a different way. Still, I don't mind if some kind of bullet limit has been exceeded or some kind of transfer can't be made again, so we need to go to the bank or ask for an increase in the limit. Normally people have calculated that it's going to be some time for the procedure, that I'm going to do it this week or this month, but then it turns out that what was possible, for example, five years ago or two years ago, is no longer there. However, in order to avoid such a consumer's resentment, I think it is in fact also in the interests of these same financial service providers that such an understanding be greater or an understanding of what the role of the customer is in order for all of our money to be better protected. I think it's a big step. I hope that, in addition to buffers and technical supervision, the Financial Supervision Authority may also recall that, listen, now think about the client's view of what the person understands or how he sees it, what it is his experience when such changes occur. So I want strength for the Financial Supervision Authority. Of course, I hope that the indirect effects of war and credit risks will not actually materialise and that we will be able to carry on in a secure financial environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U32	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Today's first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U33	Let's go to the second item. Draft 590 of the Government of the Republic Act and the Act amending other laws (Restructuring of the State Defence Investment Centre into a government institution) initiated by the Government of the Republic. We are at second reading. I call Heiki Hepner, member of the National Defence Commission, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 18 April this year. The first reading took place on 11 May and by the deadline for submitting amendments, the members of the Riigikogu tabled one amendment to the draft by 10 a.m. on 23 May. The second amendment came after the commission, i.e. the National Defence Committee. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 30 May before submitting it to second reading when approving the draft text, the explanatory memorandum and the list of amendments. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 30 May 2022, Margit Gross, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, also took part as the initiator of the draft. A few words about the amendments. Indeed, they are nicely added to the second reading text. However, we had a longer debate on the amendment tabled by Mr Breivel, Mr Kaskpeit, Mr Kunnas and Mr Laneman. To some extent it can be said that this amendment also relates to the adoption or procedure of a draft 572 relating to the trust of the Government of the Republic here on 30 May. It was about, I'm saying to refresh memory, connecting two fleets, it was the core of this bill. Other clarifications were made there, and the proposers of the amendments proposed to include the Ministry of Defence in the area of government with the country, so that there would also be protection of land borders during and preparation for martial law. This is an issue which is not linked to just one specific law. This task, on which an amendment has now been made, would be for the Defence Forces. It should have been viewed a little more complex, and it would probably have been good if we could have gone ahead with the consensus at 572, but it went the way it was, and obviously the snow of the storm doesn't make sense to miss it now, you have to look at the new winter. Indeed, Mati Raidma also said that there is no solution if this wording is now written here and is not included in the Defence Forces Order Act, it requires a common package and a broader approach to the subject. Obviously, however, sooner or later we will have to address these issues. On the other hand, it is quite clear that our defence forces, along with police and border guards, certainly also the Defence League and the entire Estonian people, will still defend our border if necessary. The task of the Defence Forces is actually to defend the state. So there's no direct hole in the law here. The second amendment, which came from the Commission's side, also relates to the aforementioned second law, which we adopted at the beginning of the week. There, indeed, the word "defence" is added to the watch. It is also nice and beautiful for you to see in the text of the bill that there is the surveillance and protection of airspace and sea borders. So it's not just guarding, it's protection. A few more words maybe procedurally. Indeed, at its meeting on 2 May, the Steering Committee decided (consensus) to propose that, when the first reading of the draft be closed, the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 2 June. At its meeting on 30 May (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Perhaps once again, when I came back to these amendments, I would say that, indeed, in the case of the first amendment, there was not a very frequent case in the Committee on National Defence, where 3 votes were voted and votes were divided: 6 that is, this amendment was not accepted, and the second amendment was unanimously accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U35	Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U36	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been looking at § 1, DOD's jurisdiction. Here are these terms throughout the herd: "structuring" is four times, "designing" once, "implementation" once, "coordination" once and so on, and so on. But has it been viewed as a whole and compared with other ministries? I've seen that here, in a number of other ministries, the analogous thing has been built in a completely different way. And what is the difference, for example, between "organisation" and "implementation"?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U37	Thank you. Indeed, we did not make such a comparison in the Commission so that we would have taken up and compared all the areas of government. We did not take on this ambitious task; we really did remain in the field of defence at the moment. But now this meaning of words, your second question, what is organization and what is conduct. One might say that in carrying out maybe the fingers are in more and more influenced by the decision, but the organisation is literally arranged and someone else does. That could be the answer or the point of that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U38	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Heiki! I will go more to my question, not to these amendments, but to the content of this bill. The role of a government body is largely linked to the right of administrative procedure, as I understand. Why don't you go over what's left of the Defence Resources Board and what's left of the National Defence Investment Center? And why is this administrative right needed in the context of the Centre for Defence Investments? What is the main change we are going to bring about, and what are the responsibilities of the authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U40	Thank you. Indeed, there are now certain rights being granted. In addition to the Estonian Defence Resources Board, the National Defence Investment Centre will also become a government agency. The purpose of this draft is, or is intended primarily, that the Defence Resources Board should only deal with people and that the whole material side should move to the National Defence Investment Centre. However, this also requires that it has the status of a government agency, so it is really possible to optimise these tasks better. In the meantime, the Defence Resources Board did also deal with the coercive burden of assets and resources, but now all these coercive burdens and tangible assets go to the National Defence Investment Centre and really the Defence Resources Board can focus on services and questions related to human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm still focusing on these concepts. Can you explain it to me? Well, here, for example, the language has been corrected, the line has been drawn down, "guarding and protecting the sea border." But if you look at how it's said elsewhere, why isn't there "watching and protecting" or "watching and protecting"? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U43	Thank you. I think it's just a linguistic nuance. The content here would certainly not change if it had been mentioned 'guardian and defence' or 'guardian and defence'. But this bill was really reviewed, I believe, by our very good language people who gave it their blessing, and I have no reason to doubt their competence. Here, good knowledge of Estonian has contributed, and so it is now in the form of a text.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U44	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am neither an expert nor qualified in this area, unlike many of the people in this Chamber who can speak on any subject. But I'm just asking for your call. You said that you rarely have a vote in committee. Now one time you had to vote on the amendment, and six: 3 was, if I am not mistaken, the situation. What is the content of this amendment and why was it not supported? Why don't you open it? I just have this curious question, and I believe that this question arose for many who are watching the broadcast, or also for members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U46	Thank you very much. I touched on that subject a little bit. Why did I say that we don't generally vote on all the points? Because we are looking for consensus, and that is the general principle of national defence, that we need to look for a cross-party, cross-group consensus, because it is a matter for all of us. And this is where the parties must definitely stick together. But you have to argue in nuances sometime. In this case, you could actually say that there is now a debate on the question of nuance. Indeed, one thought had been added to the amendment, the same list of which Mr Ernits has now asked me to add the sentence 'ground border protection during martial law and preparation for it'. We actually discussed a lot more about the two fleet bill that we voted here on Monday on government trust, these issues. So they connect to each other, and this wording should match. Since he did not go in there in this form, we would indeed have created perhaps not a good lawmaking practice, because they should support each other. Here, really, let's say this, I really quoted my colleague Raidma in the introduction of the draft, but if you can generalise it somehow, you could say that this really needs a bit more debate on how to put these wordings exactly, which is the role of the Defence Forces in defending the border. We know we have the police and border guards on land to protect the border, but at sea, he's moving into the hands of the armed forces by the law that he passed on Monday. Maybe there's a difference now. We should probably come back to it at some point and look at this whole legislative package to see if there are any nuances that we should further elaborate on. It was here that, if there is a martial law, of course, the Defence Forces would protect our borders, there is no doubt about that. This is the first task of the Defence Forces, to protect the Estonian state, and the border belongs to it. But the dispute, not even the dispute, was not a dispute here, but rather a debate, or the point of discussion was how we prepare for this moment of transition from the watch to protection. There will be one such interim phase, and there has been a debate about it. This might actually need a more general approach in the whole legislative process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U47	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As a good language person, I have worked long and hard in publishers and editors, I can say that there are two very different things to watch and protect. I'm gonna put my bag down and ask you to watch it, but if a robber comes and wants to take it off by force, it's up to you to decide whether you're gonna run off or defend it. So these are two different things. The border will be guarded during peacetimes, so that there is no illegal border crossing, smuggling would not be to help people if they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. But protection means that if someone tries violently to cross the border, it will be blocked by all means. The border will be protected. So it's not an insignificant nuance. I do not want the fences to be sharp, I do not want to give the impression that I would in any way respond to this bill, but I would point out, however, that it is not such a linguistic and irrelevant matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U49	Yes, but here, too, in fact, we now have the words'security and protection' introduced here. After all, I also agree with you that really guarding and protecting have different meanings. I'm sure I agree with you on that. This whole debate was now going on about what we had in the Commission, about how we are going... For example, when we come into martial law, everything is clear, it is nothing, but in times of peace, precisely in the transition from one situation to another, how action will take place on the land border. It was the only thing here. Basically, I agree with you. This clarification was also consensually introduced in the Commission, this protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U50	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for a thorough and completely adequate explanation. Leo Kunnas's name is a very great authority for me in this area, and if he has tabled such an amendment, it seems to me that it deserves very serious consideration. But the question is, how did these voices 6: 3 divide? How did anyone vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U52	Thank you very much. I'll let you know right away. Heiki Hepner, Alar Laneman and Leo Kunnas were opposed by Enn Eesmaa, Toomas Järveoja, Peeter Rahnel, Mati Raidma, Ülle Rajasalu and Timo Suslov.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U53	Thank you. No further questions. We can open negotiations. Leo Kunnas has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U54	I'd like three minutes, just in case, but maybe it won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U55	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The principle of this draft itself, to turn the National Defence Investment Centre into a government institution, is very right and we support it. This is basically necessary in order for the execution function to be transferred from KRA to the Defence Investment Centre, so that it can simply do so. The KRA has not been able to handle this very well, and this transition is the right one. The bigger we get the army, the more we have to apply the requisitions, that's clear. We hope that with this legislative amendment this situation will improve, and we will support it. But now a few words from our amendment. Why and why? First of all, the law of the Government of the Republic in terms of ministry functions should have been amended with 572 SEs already, because it deals with it, but for some reason it was simply left out or forgotten, so it is now incorporated here. Now, in dealing with the 572 SE, we got so far in the discussions in the Commission that we had the consensus that the protection of the land border during the martial law and the preparation for it should be taken over by the Defence Forces and that it should go into the Defence Forces Order Act. Unfortunately, this draft went as it did, it was bound by mistrust, and that is why all the amendments fell away, and we did not really have time to finish it in committee. But now that part of this 572 SE draft is actually behind, it is here, that is why our proposal is that the same wording that we actually reached in the Commission in consensus be put here as a function of the Ministry of Defence. I think it is an even better solution in that sense that it gives more freedom of action. It is clear that the Ministry of Defence's administration will not be dealt with by the Foreign Intelligence Board, will not be dealt with by the National Defence Investment Centre or the Defence Resources Board. This will be dealt with by the Defence Forces and the Defence League. And how exactly are they going to do that is, of course, a matter of a separate legislative package. We also reached this point in the Commission: of course, if we determine this key function in such a way that the Defence Forces are dealing with it and it is in the area of the Ministry of Defence's administration, it needs the same package of legislative amendments as the 572 SE itself, i.e. to clarify the same details. It may take six months or a year, it will take time, but this fundamental decision that it is necessary should be made. And here, with this amendment, we could make this fundamental decision so that land border protection during and in preparation for martial law is within the realm of the Ministry of Defence. In fact, he couldn't be in someone else's jurisdiction. This would also require that this package be developed over a certain period of time. Of course, the main reason why all of this is needed is whether we appreciate that war is possible or whether we appreciate that it is not possible. Perhaps in those years, when a different solution was made, i.e. the Border Guard and Police Authorities were merged and the military border guard was abolished, that was probably the assumption: it was assumed that war would not be possible. I suppose that was the assumption, and that is why all these decisions were made. They were based on the situation and understanding at the time. But now we have come to a whole new situation because of the Ukrainian war. We have no doubt that war may be possible. And if we have no doubt about that, then we should prepare for it in the best possible way. That is why we have tabled this amendment so that this issue can, in principle, be decided and resolved here, so that at technical level the Ministry of Defence and Internal Affairs can both proceed and decide exactly how it is regulated by law. That is why I call on all of you, of course, to support this amendment and the draft, but above all to support our Amendment 1, which would define it in this way. Of course, this question is not about Riho Breivel, Uno Kaskpeiti, me, Alar Laneman or any party. It is, in fact, one of the major issues of the state, society and people that needs to be resolved, how we do it. I therefore ask you and call for this amendment 1 to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U57	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I'm not going to repeat what Leo said in Kunna because it's all pure gold coming out of his mouth. And I'm not going to talk about what I said on May 30 when we were talking about the 572 amendments to the law, because I already explained in detail what the reason is. I believe most of you listened to this. The cause is defenceal, the cause is extremely defenceful. And not only defence, but also time-critical, as I said on the 30th. This decision is time-critical. Here, we cannot look at this in such a way that the corresponding amendment would also require in-depth discussion and, if necessary, changes in other areas. Needs, everything needs to change areas, but we need to solve this problem. The most interesting thing about this is that with the gentlemen and ladies in this Chamber, I have had a consensus on this issue one by one. Everyone says it's right, but they don't want to put it in. Damn Greeks again want to make some kind of change. It is not the EKRE's intention to make this amendment as the EKRE's wish. This is a national defence issue and it must be resolved. There is nothing to do here, because border protection is one of our priorities. This is also demonstrated by Ukraine. We can't say like "Kavall-Antsus and the Devil" that the barn door is guarded, but we can't say a word about guarding the barn. Through this door we guard the barn, we guard the Estonian state. You have to understand that. We cannot see in this way that it is not the task of the Defence Forces to defend and prepare the land border during martial law. Damn it, whose job is it if not for the Defence Forces? The Defence Forces agree to this. I spoke to the Secretary of Defense yesterday, and he says it has to be resolved, too. The people of the National Defence Commission, who are very familiar with the defence force, will all understand that this must be done. It was Mati Raidma. Mati Raidma has also said that this is the right thing to do. Since the last vote on 572 was actually a matter of mistrust, the matter was sunk. But right now, there's a way to fix it. It is possible to correct it nicely and show that we stand up for the protection of the Estonian state, all together. So why are we gonna come back here and play party games? We take this decision right, we put it in, we give it to the Defence Forces, we give it to the Border Guard, we give it to the Ministry of Defence and we give the Ministry of the Interior the right to deliver this thing. We give them what they've been called upon to do for the protection of the state and the people. They can guard this barn's door so that the barn is also guarded. I hope you all understand this and come back here and say, "That's right, Riho, that's what's to be done." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U59	Now it is necessary to review the amendment... Oh, I'm sorry! Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Listening to this little debate that we're talking about here, I'm always not sure who the employer is. Well, I'm not going to talk about the worst example of the city of Tallinn, where the city councillors are on the Commission, and the city official is coming, and he doesn't even want to answer. He says we're aware Thursday will be followed by Friday and that's it, take it or leave it. It's so arrogant. At the moment, the Riigikogu is adopting laws. And the Government of the Republic is now launching a great law. It's not the Government of the Republic that initiates it, it's officials that keep producing something from somewhere. Because from time to time, we want to get our country thinner, so that we have too many officials. I also find that maybe there are a lot of officials. I think the work of the officials is overly duplicated. Officials have made such fine coordination rounds, which means that the process in itself would be extremely long. And now, to which I want to come, when the members of the Riigikogu, in their better knowledge, from their own experience of life, make a task from their own competence that we make this change, the Government of the Republic says: "No, we do not support it. "Seriously. Imagine that we give the Government of the Republic, for example, the task of putting the potato down in the spring and picking it up in the fall. The Government of the Republic says: "No, we do not support it. " You don't put potatoes down in the spring. And in the autumn they say, "But you see, where are we going to pick up this potato now if it isn't laid down in the spring? "It reminds me of this monkey business, or unreasonable business in translation. So the men put down eight bags of potatoes in the spring, and summer passed by to pick up the potato. You picked up nine bags in the fall. You thought it'd be interesting where that bag came from. That's the kind of lawmaking I'd hate to see here. If we are talking here now that we are going through a difficult time and we want to restructure the National Defence Investment Centre into a government institution and make other improvements within it, the Government of the Republic will tell us: "We have thought about this and we are coming. " Maybe it's the usual answer if you want to tell me why there's nothing you can't do. And then it turns out it hasn't been done for many, many, many years. I suggest that you read again Leo Kunnas's book about David and Goliath in 2023. Most of the workmates have read it. And this book begins with this very moment: Who will blow up the Narva Bridge, to whom has this task been assigned? It's that simple. I do not believe that somewhere now anyone wants to do this ugly word with an O, which I do not like at all, obsessive structures, but simply to stretch out that these amendments are being tabled for spite. No, it's about the knowledge that may not be the best, but it's a lifelong knowledge. Maybe these sophisticated knowledge has gotten in the way of time, but they're still knowledge. It's worth taking from our past some of the things that have ever worked. Let's get them to work again, which is because he's not immediately compatible with an existing app, so we can find some interface to make him compatible. Therefore, I would recommend that everyone support all the amendments, sincerely, and support the draft itself in exactly the same way, so that we can get on with it. This distinction should not end here like this: "Ah, you are the opposition, you know nothing, but we are in the coalition, we have a shortcut to the holy grail. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U61	And now there are no more requests for speech. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine all two amendments. The first amendment was tabled by Mr Breivel, Mr Kaskpeit, Mr Kunnas and Mr Laneman. The Steering Committee has decided not to accept the amendment. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U62	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U63	Yeah! First, we're gonna do a hall call. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the reading of the draft 590 and are reviewing the amendments. A revision of the first amendment is underway. Its performers are Riho Breivel, Uno Kaskpeit, Leo Kunnas and Alar Laneman. The Steering Committee has rejected this and the EKRE Group is asking for a vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U64	There are 17 Members in favour of the amendment, 34 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, the author is the Committee on National Defence, and the commission has taken full account of this. Nobody wants to vote on that. All the amendments have now been examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U65	Today's third item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on natural gas and other laws. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Hady colleagues! I am talking today about a draft law amending the Law on Natural Gas and other laws. The draft has been initiated by the Government of the Republic in April this year. The nature of the proposal is the changes in the functioning of the gas market and the role of market participants in the context of a possible supply crisis and shortage of natural gas, with the emphasis on the word "possible." As an important change, amendments to the Environmental Charges Act have been added to the draft in the course of the procedure concerning the obligations of wind power plant builders to pay the local wind power generation fee. But just in turns. The first reading of Bill 596 was on 10 May. There's been a change. Some of the changes were presented by Annely Akkermann, a member of the Riigikogu, who is already, in addition to saying, very much and as an important part of what concerns the benefits for local governments and people from the birth of various wind farms. When he had submitted these amendments, MKM presented similar ones and since they contained the same content, Annely Akkermann found that it was reasonable to discuss and withdraw hers in the form presented by the Ministry. The Commission has informed a large number of parties about the draft procedure. That list's pretty long for anyone who wants to, you can look at the explanatory note for yourself. And the main partner we've had is MKM. In time, we have discussed this draft at one working group meeting and three Commission meetings. On the side of the proceedings, I shall say immediately that we have proposed procedurally that he be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 June and that the second reading be suspended. Perhaps today, our Commission's proposal to interrupt reading is precisely because the circle of issues in the draft has expanded considerably. If he used to be the law on natural gas and emergency, then there has now also been a long-awaited and especially in the case of the construction of renewable energy, an important local measure of paying for windmills and windmill parks for disruptions to municipalities and people. We therefore interrupt so that we can review these wordings and, if necessary, correct them. Let's say, in this timetable, if we want this much-awaited change for the summer and such a change that will help increase renewable energy and reduce dependence on Russian gas and other such fossils, that is the best we can do. Further changes made by the Commission. The Commission proposes to set the deadline for amendments at 9 a.m. on 6 June. And if the second reading of the draft is interrupted, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading on 8 June 2022. Now maybe a few words added here. Everything I mentioned, natural gas and emergency, that is, how consumers are classified, in the event of any disruption of supply, has been added to the benefits to locals of disturbing windmills or disturbing wind farms. I know that my colleague, Annely Akkermann, later in her speech, will also touch further on this issue, because he, fortunately, has also been the one in the Commission who has dealt with it over a number of committees. If you give some examples, they're just such book examples, they don't stop them from making an exact calculation. But if the 100 megawatt wind farm were on land and the average electricity price, the Nord Pool exchange price would be EUR 50 megawatt, the municipal fee would be EUR 150000 from the year of the circa. If it rises to EUR 75 megawatt, the municipality's remuneration would be around EUR 225000 per year and up to 50% of it would be paid to the residents. And there is also such a clause that the maximum fee for a natural person is a six-month minimum wage which, given this year's rate, is just under EUR 4000. In the case of sea wind farms, an example would be: if the sea had a wind farm of 1000 megawatts, the average electricity price of EUR 50, as in the previous example, the municipal subsidy would be about EUR 1 million. Some of this would also be supported by beach fishermen and trawlers in a proven case. This was also one of the areas that we encountered in the Commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs often does not do so much, say, with the agricultural side of the field, i.e. fishing, but we also had it as a debate in the Commission, who should then be compensated for this potential disturbance, whether or not fishermen, fishermen, coastal fishermen and trawlers in particular, and this choice was in their favor. During the various debates at the Commission and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, fisheries processing companies were excluded from this scope. If there is a choice between two, then in fact, it is those who fish, rather than companies as legal bodies, who are actually affected, that was the basis for the choice. This has also been further dissected in our protocol. Well, there are quite a lot of proposals here, 23 proposals. These are all the proposals of the commission, they have come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and amendments to the Environmental Charges Act and related other laws have been made in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. So that's the story. We have a proposal to cancel the second reading. We'll wait for the corrections, and next week we'll see you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U67	And a question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question comes from this heading, which concerns the Tootsi wind farm as a good example. In fact, Toots' wind farm is in the development phase, but no electricity is produced. At the same time, the connectivity capacity has been built up. In the context of this particular draft, how will this fee be calculated? If I'm reading, actually, the next day of the building permit should start to pay the farm or environmental damage fee, whatever we call him, and this should last until the windmill is taken out. How will it fit into the context of Toots' wind farm if we adopt this law in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U69	Thank you for a good question. Here, however, we have been guided by the general rule of how this could work. I can't tell you the dates of birth of a particular park from this remote control, but I can tell you later in writing if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U70	Andres Metsoja again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U71	Thank you. Rather, the question is that we have based ourselves on joining the electricity grid, which, as if, provides the basis for allocating the subsidy, right, it has been the main struggle. This means that this park is sort of integrated into the general electricity grid and support scheme. But whether they are now aligned or still there is an additional term, it still depends on the building permit. The building permits may be very different, they may be granted a building permit to build a merger, but they may also be granted, in the context of the merger, the capacity to build a windmill behind it. Will they be reconciled or will they still be dealt with separately in this sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U72	Now, if I understand correctly, fortunately we have the opportunity to clarify this with each other in this Chamber, it seems to me that these two things are still different now. It is precisely for the residents of local governments that, as far as the distraction fee is concerned, it is not in favour of subsidies. If I understand this question correctly. But once again, we can clarify this right here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U73	And now we're out of questions. I'm opening negotiations. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U74	Thank you, Honourable Vice President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, For starters, superwork commission. I am not in the Committee on Economic Affairs for the last month, but I should commend the Committee on Economic Affairs, no jokes. On one jacket we sewed to the other jacket, cut off nicely, give the members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to make further amendments. Supertimed procedural practice, and so all drafts should be dealt with. Now two things of substance, too. What this bill came into this hall, which I was talking about here at first reading, is how this terminal, the terminal, and all this is going to work. It's all very reasonable. Although from the Ministry and I don't know who the noise is around this LNG terminal, anyway. So maybe the Ministry of Communications should have done better in its work, in order to ensure that these relations with economic operators are not exactly what they are. But with LNG terminal, we do not reduce gas consumption in Estonia. We're just putting on a different gas, which isn't that bloody Russian gas, it's LNG gas and all that, but we're not reducing consumption. Now, with the second jacket, which the Commission took very well, we are actually doing directly these moves to reduce gas consumption in Estonia as a whole. Perhaps I would like to pick up two amendments that Annely has been really lucky all along, perhaps in any way, to get these wind farms out from behind the stump. One side is that, well, these local residents say they have negative environmental effects, so they think. That's probably true. And if we get this amendment, which we now bring here, under Annely's leadership and in the ministry, when we're overtaken, something can move in the wind parks, it's super. After all, this reduces gas consumption as a whole. The second amendment, which was also directly related to this draft, which is the second part of the jacket to be sewn up, is that we can use all possible residual heat with more sensible regulation. So what are we talking about? We're talking about the residual heat of the cleaning equipment. There are still a number of companies in the explanatory memorandum to the draft and in the Commission's materials, such as one paint producer, who is not actually a heat producer, but its residual heat could be used to heat this city. It is also a very big step if, with the amendment to this draft, which the Commission has now added here, we can use the same residual heat of Tallinn's waste water to heat Tallinn. In this way, the total amount of gas consumed in Estonia may be reduced by 20 to 30%. In fact, the goal we would like to reach is that we consume less gas in Estonia as a whole. Kristen, this is outrageous for you to hear, but thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U75	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who listen to me! I understand that the expectation of this amendment to the Environmental Disturbation Act has been living in this Chamber for a long time. Mankind wants to live better and better, which means he wants to use more and more energy. The knowledge that fossil fuel reserves are definitive and their increasing use is changing the earth's ecosystem and climate has led to a green deal in Europe and programmes with different names for the transition to renewable energy in probably all developed countries. At the forefront are Asian countries, Japan, China, South Korea and Singapore. Furthermore, wind power production and hydrogen technology became topical already before the war in Ukraine, but aggression, which started on 24 February, has shaken the energy markets, is still shaking us and is probably still shaking us for a long time, both in Europe and in the world. Access to energy is a precondition for democracy in terms of both volume and affordable prices, as is the question of security in our region. Although every war ends and paraphrases Šveyk, it meets again in the beer hall after the war at six o'clock, with the end of the war there will certainly not be a happy time in Europe and Estonia, when the average electricity price on the Nord Pool Stock Exchange fluctuates again at a price of €50 and €30 per megawatt. Tackling the effects of war will last for years, people will love repairs and judge war criminals, countries and infrastructure will be rebuilt. In the context of the development of Estonia's energy, this means that we must move faster than we have done to date or planned to do until the beginning of the war. That is why this bill, as Mr Kalvi Tough said, is another jacket sewn, which initially had to establish only a legal regulation for the activation of the LNG floating terminal, the creation and storage of gas supplies and, if necessary, the restriction of gas consumption. Regulation to compensate local residents and communities for the environmental degradation of wind power plants has now been included here. The subject itself is not new, not to say that it is a bearded story that no longer brings added value to the discussion. I myself came to the Riigikogu for the first time in 2011 with a message from the local authorities in Pärnumaa, when former colleagues, the local government leaders, told me that if wind energy is to be activated, they want to be planned by local authorities, then they must also compensate for the suffering associated with environmental disruption. At the time, I also commissioned a study on how to compensate for wind power plants in other countries, but there was no wider problem at the time. In the meantime, another large-scale study has been carried out on the creation of local benefit instruments in the Estonian judicial area. This study is available on the Ministry of Finance website. In the meantime, a survey has also been carried out among the population and it appears that most people are willing to tolerate wind power plants if they receive compensation for it. Indeed, without compensation, local communities have no argument for abandoning the natural environment. Indeed, the development of Estonian wind energy has been in lethargy for the last ten years, and one of several reasons has certainly been the unwillingness of the communities to the matter, the other behind... I'm asking for extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U77	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U78	... to give up the free horizon. All kinds of actions and lengthy litigation against wind power plants have stopped many projects. For the first time in the practice of the seven-year Riigikogu, I have seen the presentation of a slide by the wind-electric developer with the urgent proposal that the state should now adopt regulation to compensate for environmental disruption to communities as a matter of urgency. Businesses have a demand for the Riigikogu: 'Please cancel this fee and quickly introduce it!' The technology of wind power production has recently developed in a crazy hurry. The first wind farm was erected in Danish waters only in 1991, but in 30 years it has grown in very large quantities worldwide and is added. In addition to the development of hydrogen technology, which allows the wind to store hydrogen in very large quantities, pour it into the car tanks or produce heat and light again. Against the background of this development, it is possible that the Estonian sea wind will become one of the most important natural resources, because we actually have a large number of sea winds and suitable coastal areas. The European Commission has assessed that we can place eight gigawatts of wind in the sea. Elering's leader also said in a recent discussion at the State Budget Control Committee that 10 gigawatts of renewable energy have been requested on land, which is very, very large in quantities compared to Estonia's current electricity consumption. Indeed, businesses are very, very much looking forward to this change in regulation. They want a legal framework to go talk to local communities. In the current energy crisis and in the situation of Russia's aggression in our immediate area, Estonian society as a whole and more generally needs to progress faster with this legislative act. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to you: now, in the intervening days, please look at this amendment and, if you wish, make further amendments. Some are already done, they're on the bill card. We will now pay the price for this environmental disturbance quickly and even before Midsummer Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U79	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U80	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we all represent the country in this Parliament, but certainly in this context, it is inevitable for the Pärnumaa ambassadors to speak, because wind energy, both at sea and on land, is very much the topic of Pärnu County. Indeed, the beginning is with one of Estonia's first wind farms, the development of Estonian wind farms with the [local] Tamba wind farm in Varbla, but this has not started well. In fact, it was planned and planned, but the building permit was issued in a different way. At the time, when I was a governor of the country, there was quite a lot of sneaking around with it, until then, that when applying for first legal protection as a representative of the state, the court made it very clear that since the foundations were already built, the road network too, and the cables were transported, it is very disproportionate to apply primary law enforcement and put it all to a halt. This wind farm is ready for today. I regret to say that I don't even know how this litigation ended at the end of the day. Probably by issuing a permit, and by granting a permit, a legal building permit became legal, so that the park would produce it. But this story has undoubtedly left a mark and, above all, a mark that, if anything is agreed, these agreements must be respected on the basis of broader laws on general planning, because otherwise there will be very great opposition and it will be very difficult to move forward. Another major story is undoubtedly related to Tootsi wind farm in Pärnumaa. Regrettably, it must be said that the need to produce green energy has been very high, the area has also been found, the planning has been established, all effects have been assessed, it comes within the scope of the former peat production area, from the edge Rail Baltic will pass through this park area. Unfortunately, it has become quite fatal that two state companies have been arguing among themselves, even though a very large amount of money has been paid out of the taxpayer's pocket. The state company has bought it out of RMK, the connection capacity also exists, but what does not exist is a wind farm. There are no windmills, but at the same time we are all very persuasive about how change is needed, we need green energy. But what it's all about doesn't always make sense. I do not think it has now been stuck behind a specific legislative amendment. But there is no doubt that the content of this amendment cannot be underestimated at all because it concerns both land and sea. While things have now become a little clearer on land, up to the level of national security, there is still quite enough of this confusion in the maritime area, precisely in the key to planning. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay particular attention to whether this law, which we are dealing with here in the form of a draft, will also apply retroactively. Does the law extend to those wind farms that already produce, or is it strictly linked to the building permit? And does this building permit have to be linked to the construction of a connecting point or to the construction of a wind farm, or windmill, with which specifically? How do we relate to it? And how are we going to talk about this with the owners of these wind farms, whether or not they have been able to weigh their business risks at this point in order to pay the community or those who are there within the limits of interference or influence? I'd like an extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U81	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U82	Thank you. It has to be very clear, it can't be that we process it and then see how it starts to come into effect. Why did I bring Tootsi into the wind farm in the context of this question? I think it is a good example that this whole regulatory side is in order and whether or not this Tootsi wind farm will fit within the framework of the provision and thought of this law. The other side touches the subject of maritime affairs. Coastal people know that herring fishing is taking place today in the most active phase. And the greatest fear, when we talk again about coastal fishing in the Gulf of Riga, is whether the wind farm that is being built in the water will allow the fish to come to the bay of Pärnu to spawn or not. Some say they won't, others say they will, but there's no good example of the world, because there's no such lagoon or herring spawning anywhere in the wind. There are stories about other fish species, but it should be mentioned that 90% of the income from coastal fishing and professional fisheries comes from fishing for herring, and if something happens to it, it will certainly happen to coastal fishing. But this is a well-known part of our culture. And a specific mitigation provision has been introduced here in the context of sea wind parks, especially fisheries, in view of the fact that, if this catch is to change for some reason, then it is right to start compensating on the basis of a statement. But it has also been introduced "in the scope of the provision." And now it is important to tell the legislator very clearly what this area of influence is. Whether the area of influence is a kilometer-two around a wind farm or a wind farm that has been put on a sea area in such a way that it restricts the fish's spawning to the bay of Pärnu, for example. Is Pärnu Bay as a whole an area of influence or not? I think that we need this answer from a number of interest groups, both processors and catchers, and that is just one small detail in this whole. So there are nuances. I also think that this is a step in the right direction. Maybe we should have done this sooner, but that's what we're always going through. We can do exactly how political capacity is and how officials can prepare. Hopefully, we'll work hard and fast. And with the procedure, we are giving clear answers so that this law really does organise something rather than create more confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U83	Thank you very much for this speech. We will now proceed from here in the right direction with these steps. I would like to ask Kristen Michal to speak here in the Riigikogu. Please! A little question in advance: maybe a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U84	No, thank you, we can do without it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U85	Got it! But when it comes to need, three minutes is always possible. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Metsoja asked the question before, and since we met in the hall, we were able to clarify, for his sake and for the sake of the record, I say that it is in the explanatory memorandum that we have written, and it says nicely that the draft does not affect the activities of existing wind farms. The wind-up charge shall be applied to wind power plants providing electricity to the grid or direct line after the draft enters into force. The draft is not imposed retroactively as the operating factors of existing wind farms are lower than those of today's wind power plants, as well as more expensive technology and the cost of construction. The introduction of wind tax on existing wind power plants would put at risk their operation, as the owners of existing wind farms are already different types of contract-related and the principle of non-retrospective regulation of the addressee of the standard is rooted in a European legal culture. So I hope Andres got the answer, and if he didn't, we can continue this debate. And in the Commission, all this other talk was definitely written down by the advisers, and we will be able to discuss here before the next, second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U87	Thank you. So fast. Thank you. Is there another wish for negotiation now? Please! No, it's not. That's how I close the negotiations. There are now 23 amendments to draft 596 and we will examine these amendments. The first amendment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, his position: to take full account, after discussions. Now, the second amendment has also come from the lead committee. Third amendment, from the lead committee. Amendment four, from the lead committee. Amendment 5, from the lead committee. Amendment 6, from the lead committee. Amendment 7, from the lead committee. Amendment 8, from the lead committee. The ninth amendment, from the lead committee, after reflection and discussions, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. Amendment 10, from the lead committee. Amendment 11, from the lead committee. Amendment 12 from the lead committee, Amendment 13 from the lead committee. Amendment 14, from the lead committee. Amendment 15 from the lead committee, Amendment 16 from the lead committee. Amendment 17, from the lead committee. Now, please, good fellows, attention! Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, taking the position fully into account. 19. from the Lead Commission, the 20th Lead Commission, the 21st Lead Commission, the 22nd Lead Commission and the 23rd Lead Commission. Thank you. That cooperation was like clockwork right now. Thank you very much. We have examined the amendments. Now, despite this, the commission has made another proposal. His proposal is to interrupt the second reading of Bill 596. I will also look at the chairman of the committee; he will continue to accept this proposal. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 6 June at 9 a.m. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U88	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure with that attitude, we'll get it over with quickly. This draft is a draft law amending the Aviation Act and other laws. This draft has been initiated by the Government of the Republic in January of this year. The first reading was in April and by that time no amendments were received from the Riigikogu. Several proposals to the Economic Commission have been submitted by the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with other ministries. And let's say that the most in-depth debate on this in the meantime has gone beyond the national defence aspects of the Aviation Act here as much as it means national defence aspects, but not aviation, but the Ministry of Defence has submitted it to the Commission and we discussed it both on 10, 17 and 30 May, when we finally agreed to a revised version of this proposal. This essentially concerns the possibility that if the Government of the Republic decides and defines a building as a defence object, which is vital, which the failure to build, which could have a significant impact on national security, or vice versa, the construction of a building will help to resolve an emergency, in which case the state will have a new opportunity to deliver it more quickly. Here are some nuances that relate to the possibility of editing more quickly. It will certainly be ruled out that there is also such a pleasant organogram at the end, Annex 1 in the explanatory memorandum or a diagram describing how all this is happening, and in particular that its significant adverse impact on areas protected by the Natura 2000 network must be ruled out, this procedure will be quicker. And if these effects are not excluded from what this procedure looks like, it's all in the explanation. Let's just say that the debate was quite thorough, and as we have said here many times, it was now a bill in which not just a little button, a much-needed button, gained a pretty good jacket. So if a state should have an emergency or a defence need, I believe it will make it easier for us to do so in the future. The debate in the Economic Commission was quite thorough, a great many parties were called for it, and in the end we found, I believe, a solution that can go forward peacefully. Amendments. All seven amendments have been tabled by the Commission; they also found the Commission's support, which is not, of course, a surprising turn of events. The amendments were adopted by consensus, with the exception of Amendment 6, where one member of the Commission abstained. And the same explanation organogram has been added here. Now for procedural decisions. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading, including 2 June, the second reading being closed, and when the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and that the final vote be held on 8 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U90	Thank you. At least you have a few questions, two at the moment. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U91	Good manager! I understand that in difficult times, you have to sew your jackets in different places, basically the right step. But I'm going to look at this table in flea writing, or Annex 1, where there are endless boxes and arrows and so on. Who worked out this great blueprint? There could also be other drafts where you can see exactly where the box is going. Who worked it out, and is there a plan on other jackets, when any drafts are made, to set similar trajectorys?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U92	Thank you. I understand that my colleague actually acknowledged this drawing, although it is made in a small sheriff. But it's not made in a little sheriff to bully someone, it's because he can fit into that A4. He is literally also reproduced in this list of amendments. As I recall, the Commission ordered it, I do not know whether it came from the economic side or from the defence side, but I assume that the Ministry of Defence probably did so, but it was on our order, precisely because the members of the Riigikogu and the public would also be able to understand how this process should work. Sometimes it's easy to explain complicated things, and it doesn't hurt the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U93	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! That's what I'm asking. We actually live and have lived in a room where the Natura site is a sacred and untouchable place. There have also been cases in Europe, which say that going through it is in no way acceptable if it has been economically possible to solve others. Let me get this straight. Now, in a changed Europe, there has been a change in value. Nature is important, but the Natura site can be sacrificed for some nationally important objects, for its development, if it is essential for security. At least I understand that the green tea is given to deal with the topics also where the Natura site is located and just the effects need to be mitigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U95	Yeah, let's say the question is topical. Thank you. The question is topical. But as an explanation, if you now look at the amendments on page 5, it is also spelled out that the government can take the decision that the building is not subject to certain processes of planning. But I do understand that, if, after all, the Natura site has a significant adverse impact or doubt about it, it is still not beyond this assessment. So if you're asking me if this means we're abandoning all the rules of nature conservation so far, then at least I understand these proposals or this draft so I don't. Important values concerning the protection of protected areas remain, however, but the construction of defence objects is becoming faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U96	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U97	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't get an answer to my first question. Such an extremely detailed, like a board game, how it comes, an arrow goes where and where it ends up. Is there a plan for this practice, at least for the Committee on Economic Affairs, to continue to implement these drafts so that it becomes clearer and can be looked at accurately, would such a fog no longer exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U98	Thank you. Dear colleague, maybe then I did not get your question right at the beginning. If you're asking me if we're planning to draw up any drafts like this, we haven't had that plan yet. But if you say that the drafts would thus become more clear to the public and to you, then we can strive for it. I don't mind. Well, it's also well-intentioned to make it easier to follow this process, not just because of the need to draw, let's say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U99	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U100	Thank you. My question is also about sewing a jacket on this button. Explain to me, please, for what reasons, and what the point is that the government adds to the draft amendment to the Aviation Act changes to the Building Code, the Nature Conservation Code, the Planning Act, the Water Act, and things that are completely different and have nothing to do with this. Why did the government not come up with a separate draft that would deal with this matter clearly, purely, but would come up with some kind of weird compote and cluster bill again? After all, this is the worst example of legal practice and the adoption of laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U101	Thank you. Knowing the interest and passion of a good colleague for aviation, you have also come to us in the Commission to talk about aviation, I say that this was not the side of civil aviation in this draft, but that there were, in fact, defence aspects in the original draft. And therefore, it was also somewhat appropriate and appropriate, since the Ministry of Defence, which had initiated it, had a link to various restrictions, flight areas, shooting ranges and all such possibilities. So in this sense, it may be a little bit like sewing a jacket on a button, but they're not really strangers to each other. This is a defence field and the initiator was also the Ministry of Defence, so they do come into contact with each other, because the defence purpose was both there. So that's why I wouldn't even blame them for coming here. I understand that this is rather time-critical and is expected to assist the legislator in solving concerns, that is why.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U102	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U103	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! I also ask you a little bit about nature conservation issues or the construction of Natura sites. Of course, this scheme is raging and a whole new practice and, as I understand it, it could be used entirely in the future, but I think there is a point here: indeed, it is reached here that the ex ante assessment exists and that the impact is not excluded. But we do know that, in fact, if we want to do something to the Natura site and the impact is not excluded, then it must be coordinated with the European Union. You can't see that moment on this schematic. Nor do I see that some kind of compensatory measure has been found to compensate for this activity. Maybe if we take an area out of the Natura site, we should find it again somewhere. Should we suddenly complete this scheme? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U104	Thank you. I'm glad there's a drawing that excites me so much. I guess you're gonna have to add more of those blueprints here. We have written here, as I have already referred to my colleague in replying here, means, not us, but the explanatory memorandum has also been written by various colleagues in more detail about how these levels are, how planning is strategic environmental impact assessment. And the second level is a building permit or a construction notice for environmental areas, environmental impact assessment, and this is also described here. I am not going to read it out, but it is also said here, in which case, if the sole purpose of the action is to ensure national security, to address an emergency, the environmental impact may not be assessed if the assessment may undermine the achievement of these objectives, but the application of differentiation is subject to the fact that a significant adverse impact on the conservation objective of the Natura 2000 network area must be ruled out. And there, the Government of the Republic decides for the Minister responsible for the field and so on. Here, too, is the same thing as the building and so on, what it would look like and eventually reach the water permits. Yes, let's just say that the purpose of this law, or its addition, is that if there is any kind of emergency that can be prevented by the construction of a building or that failure to build it quickly could cause this emergency, it would be possible to solve it within the framework of the rules. We would probably not be discussing this if we had not seen what is happening here in Europe today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U105	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This draft is actually called the Narva reservoir and related problems. We all get it, it's been said a lot, a dozen years, but somehow it's gotten to the point that maybe it'll pass. It is now clear that it will not pass, and this issue needs to be resolved urgently. It is undoubtedly of national defence importance and without water, it is not possible to produce electricity without cooling water, and it is our great risk that must be eliminated as a matter of urgency. Especially when we adopt clear views that bloody gas and oil must be abandoned. Now, in the context of this draft and in the context of the news stream, it is important to mention this: I understand that the government has proposed Rail Baltic as such to name a military mobility programme. When Rail Baltic was planned and planned, it was strongly denied that it also had military significance or military purpose. Today we've reached that point, let's be clear that it's really there. When Rail Baltic was planned and planned, for example, in Pärnumaa we had contact with those aspects where it would be more rational and reasonable to go through the Natura site where the railway was already part of the Natura site. Unfortunately, the legal norm and practice at the time, the agreed European formula, said that the Natura site must not pass, even if there is a railway there, because the Natura site must be protected, and if the economic effects can be avoided, then it must go by, even though the damage to nature likely to be caused by the new corridor is indeterminately greater than the use of the existing corridor. I think this starting point and change is very reasonable. We cannot plan and plan Estonia on the basis of green spots. We know that Estonia's nature is diverse, and in certain cases it is possible to make more compensatory areas. But no economic objects, no linear objects can be built anywhere else or moved as they please. Nature is important, biodiversity is important, it is important to protect it, but there is a need to find this balance somewhere, and it is not possible to talk about sacred cows in search of balance. So there is also an important step forward in this respect. At the same time, we will also open Pandora's box with the whole draft procedure, so what is defenceal, which is not. I would like to say by force from this remote control that, in connection with NATO enlargement, the very national defence object is the Via Baltica land corridor that connects the Nordic countries with Central Europe within Europe. And only a few days ago, the Governor of Eesti Pank spoke about supply chains, about how this economy must grow again without Russian transit. Then I think one of the key issues is how this can happen, and it is not just a good word, but a clear financial plan and building plans, planning and building money. So I daresay the decision is brave. The procedure will be exciting. But a theme setting is undoubtedly necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U107	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Seven of them have been received, all of them from the commission and the position taken fully into account. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 524. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed. Dear colleagues, before we go to the fifth item, I have some interesting information for you, a pleasant surprise has come, two statements. Application No 1, printed on the computer, with the following content: application for extension of the sitting. The Estonian Reform Party Group proposes to extend today's plenary session of 2 June 2022 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Mart Võrguship, Chairman of the Reform Party Group, has signed. The second application has come in manuscript to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. This has come from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and its contents are as follows: "Please extend the plenary session of 2 June 2022 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. " The Deputy Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Kalvi Tõrvi, has signed. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on these two proposals. Dear colleagues, we have come to Viktor Vassilyev's procedural question. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U108	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'm sorry, I didn't get the idea that we would now vote on the same proposal and the other one. If that is the case, it is a very important political choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U109	These alternatives exist on the table, but I exercise the right of the President of the Riigikogu sitting and I add these proposals together. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which is as follows: to extend today's plenary session of 2 June 2022 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U110	With the result of 29 votes against 10 and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U111	Let's move on, the fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. I would like to ask a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the opinion of the Child Welfare Association, we read: "Estonia has often spoken about the need to raise the birth rate of children in the last decade. At the same time, the growth in the birth rate of children alone is not enough to ensure that every child also has sufficient opportunities to grow into an effective adult. Children today grow up in families that are more diverse than ever. On the basis of the General Principles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Alliance for Child Protection attaches importance to supporting families with all children. [... It is necessary to take into account, inter alia, the basic principles of population policy in 2035 that, in order to promote the well-being of families, a balance should be struck between universal measures aimed at all families with children and support for families in need of additional support (low-insured families, families with children, families raising children with disabilities, single-parent families). The early childhood period is crucial and has a major impact on the child's rest of his life. Consequently, it is important that suitable conditions are in place for successful development. One important factor that prevents a child from living a life that is worth living is poverty. So in order for a child not to feel poverty, he needs to be supported today. Every child. Every child is valuable, all children have the right to equal treatment. Our country has made children a priority, promised to support families with children. It can therefore be said that all children are important to the country and that democratic countries treat children equally. It must also be understood here that child benefits are a policy whereby the state shows that it values the existence of children. Child benefit is not social assistance, it is not poverty support, it is state support for the child. In other words, universal family benefits are preventative of poverty and support the principle that every child is valuable and prevent the labelling of children. They are not aimed at helping children who are already in poverty. Monthly child benefit supports the child throughout the child's life and helps the parent to plan the cost of the child in the long term. Universal grants are good creators of confidence for the future and, above all, also promote birth rates. In addition to child support, the support services necessary for children's development and the environment taken into account by children as a whole, including access to activities of interest, are essential. Good fellows! In addition to energy security, Europe is increasingly forced to talk about food security. Sudden increases in the price of food, room heating and heating have worsened the lives of very many families with children. Our primary concern must be whether our own families with children living in the mouth from party to party get a full meal on the table even if the shelves are lazy under expensive food. Today's situation is characterised by rising inflation, over 20% over the year, and prices have increased as much in one year as in the previous decade combined. Of course, it hurts the hardest to say that all the living costs go to families with children, pensioners, especially single pensioners, who have part-time work capacity. I guess they're the ones who need the support of the state the most. These are people who, more or less, take all the money left over from housing costs directly to the grocery store. Estonia stands out at all because we spend much of our income on food compared to other European countries. Data from Statistics Estonia show that energy price rally plays an increasingly important role in the rise in the cost of living, leading to a 60% increase in housing costs, and food price increases of food products increased by more than 15% over the year. We can say that the increase in compulsory expenditure will significantly change the pattern of consumption, as less money will be available to buy services and consumer goods. Maybe more statistics. Households spend on average 15% of their energy and 28% of their income on food. And experts have said that we will not be relieved for the summer months. Whatever happens in the new heating season, I don't want to think about it. In two years, i.e. between 2018 and 2020, the absolute poverty rate for children and adolescents up to 17 years of age increased from 1.6% to 2.7%. We're talking about before the corona crisis. The restrictions, in turn, resulted in suffering, loss of employment, reconciliation with distress and lower wages. If you add the recent surge in energy and food prices and the impact of the war, which has brought prices to the ceiling, you can say that coping with the weakest is a serious blow. On the subject of price increases, the overall price increase exceeds the average wage increase by several percentage points. This means that real purchasing power will be reduced for people this year. This has a profound impact on families with children. If inflation continues at the same rate, it can be said that people will lose more than two monthly salaries from their purchasing power this year. I will just give you a few examples of what the experts have pointed out. If a person earns a minimum wage, i.e. EUR 604 net per month, talk about the net figure from which taxes have already been deducted, i.e. EUR 7254 per year, by the end of the year, he has lost 2.3 monthly wages under 20% inflation conditions. This high inflation means that the person's actual purchasing power is 485 euros per month, or 5874 euros per year. By comparison, the latter is about the same size as the salary of some senior civil servants for one month. The minimum wage maid loses 1377 euros in purchasing power in a year. This amount should increase the person's salary this year so that he can consume goods and services on the same scale as in January this year. The same fate awaits better wages for servants. If the salary is EUR 1000 net, it would be EUR 12000 per year and 20% in the case of inflation, the purchasing power of the salary will be EUR 810 per month and EUR 9720 per year by the end of the year, which means that EUR 2280 has disappeared from the purchasing power. Good Riigikogu! According to Statistics Estonia, 1330068 people lived in Estonia as of 1 January 2021, 258227 of whom were children under the age of 18, accounting for 19.4% of the total population. According to Eurostat, 17.4% of children aged 17 years or less lived in relative poverty or social exclusion in Estonia in 2020, which is around 46000 children. The Social Democrats have now launched a draft amendment to the Family Benefits Act, which is already in March, in order to slow down the free fall of a number of families into poverty. It provides for the support of the first and second children to be increased from EUR 60 to EUR 100 per month. The third and every next child of the family will receive 100 euros from the country today. Growth in child benefits affects 2,36070 children and young people and helps to reduce the number of children living in poverty. This would cost an estimated EUR 113 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Every cent we're betting on the kids now brings back a lot later. As I have also said, there is a child once and in his own time. I call for support for the draft Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U113	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Please explain to us the differences or reasons why this draft supports the principle of universal child support. Very much has been said that we could somehow make targeted child subsidies, they would be better, but the content of this bill is universal, so that all children, not just a few children, can have them. Maybe you can open it up to the effects of universal child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U115	Thank you. First of all, if we want to have children, if the first child of the family has lived in poverty, and the family has had to ask for support to cope, then it is unlikely that a second or third child will be born in that family, because the parents will think very accurately about how to cope. And if we're also talking about how many children are wanted in the family, women have said that they would like two or three children. There is certainly a guarantee of security for universal child support, there are plans to be made, and we do not want to live out of the benefits. Now, if you look at what scientists have brought, when we are talking about the triple of child benefits, it is now 60 euros instead of 19 euros, which the Social Democrats spent many years before it became a reality, and, of course, a child support fund, which will help many if one parent avoids supporting the child. It has been pointed out that family benefits have had a significant impact on child poverty by comparing 2013 and 2020, reducing the number of children living in both relative and absolute poverty. Researchers have also said that family benefits play an important role in reducing children's relative poverty and helping to smooth out income mismatches in society. If we were to live with income support or if we had to ask for help, if families with children could not cope, the family would in any case lack security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U116	Good waitress, one more question has come to you. Do you agree? Silence is consent. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U117	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, I would now ask about the aim of the amendments to this draft. In fact, this week we have already discussed the law on family benefits in this Chamber. And at the time, I had a very strange impression from the waitress's answers that someone was trying to buy children with money, and the goal is only to increase the birth rate. However, in view of the current high increase in the family benefit law, children's allowance is paid not because of the increase in birth, but because of the fact that children's costs are paid for families. This is perhaps even more important in the current price increase situation than it was a year ago. How do you see the purpose of this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U118	The aim of this amendment is to support all families with children, i.e. the first and second children of the family equally with the third and subsequent children. Hede Sinisaar has studied the impact of family benefits on child poverty in Estonia and has pointed out this: "As child benefits or child-rich family benefits have not been changed since 2019, the question arises as to whether and when child poverty will increase again. While family benefits played an important role in the period considered, the impact is expected to decrease in the future if the level of benefits remains the same. It is therefore necessary to assess child poverty and the effectiveness of family policies consistently and, if necessary, to create new or additional measures to prevent or alleviate poverty. " It's like one side. The proposals that the Social Democrats have made, I am thinking of the current Riigikogu both in March and in May: one is raising child benefits, which would improve the situation of families with all children, and, of course, raising the support of single parents to the same level as child support, in order to improve the situation of their families, because they live in the greatest poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U119	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U120	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this comprehensive review. Very good bill, certainly worth supporting. And I believe that there has been a full consensus here, also hearing all these previous discussions, that there is a need to increase child support. I don't think anyone's opposed to this. At the time of the amendments, do you think, for example, that there could be an amendment to the fact that child support should be linked to indexation? Then it should not be raised to the discretion of politicians in this Chamber, but rather as if pensions were linked to indexation. Perhaps it would be wise to make such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U121	Thank you. Yeah, I'm fine with that. And the Social Democrats also tabled an amendment to the second draft discussed in the Riigikogu today, which the Centre Party has brought to this Chamber. Of course, we support indexation, then such sudden attacks and the collection of signatures will be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U122	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have also had a discussion here in and outside the hall on this subject, which contributes to the birth of children and creates a safe environment for the family. A lot has been said about the importance of having three or four children in the family, but I have realized that there really isn't going to be a fourth and a third child without the first or the second child. Perhaps you can also unlock the impact of this bill as to how it enhances the safety of families in this sense or ensures that families have more children? Is or where is this moment most important for these grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U124	Thank you. You have understood correctly, indeed, if there is no first and second child, the third will not be born unless there are triplets. Still, confidence [is important]. Woman mostly thinks that if a first, second, or third, or any number of children are born into a family, whether I have the confidence that this child will be raised and whether I have the confidence that this child will be properly educated. All such measures play a role here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U125	Good waitress! Thank you very much. No further questions! Thank you. Now I ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu here. Please! We're at bill 560, it's just information for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U126	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 9 May, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, 560, which was the preparation for the first reading. Just as in this Chamber today, Mrs Heljo Pikhof made a very meaningful presentation of this draft law in the Commission. The only such discussion was around the fact that the Social Ministry official Age Viira just misheard of Mrs Pikhof's report on the change in the absolute rate of poverty. Indeed, Mrs Pikhof spoke about how the absolute poverty rate for children and adolescents has risen from 1.6% to 2.7% between 2018 and 2020 but Mrs Age Viira heard that this change had taken place in 2021. So there was just a year-long little mess like this because the official didn't hear it exactly. However, in the Commission, the nature of this problem was very clear to all the members of the Commission and there was no very large discussion. All decisions were taken by consensus. These consensual decisions are as follows: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 2 June, today, to appoint Siret Kotka as the representative of the lead committee, i.e. myself, and to propose that the first reading be stopped (this was also a consensus). According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U127	Thank you. No questions for you either. Thank you. [[A voice from the hall.]] Sorry, good waitress! I have a request, good fellows! I'll look at the board, the board's empty, but then I'll say thank you, and then the question will come up. I have a request, Chairman of the Commission, that you answer, but I have a request, good members of the Riigikogu, also to you: be faster. It is not very difficult to write down the order of the questions. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U128	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! We have, as we know, two similar drafts currently in the process of both raising family allowances. Why has the Commission not discussed and proposed to merge these two?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U129	Thank you. It is true that this bill was processed on 9 May. When we dealt with this on 9 May, the fact that we put it on the plenary agenda by 2 June, which is today, and set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, was also agreed with the Socialist Group rapporteur in the committee. After that, the initiative of the members of the Riigikogu, which was dealt with if my memory did not deceive me, came on 16 May. And it was put on the agenda by May 30th. If we now ask whether the two amendments can be combined, I say that in theory they can be combined. But this assumes that only after we have heard the amendments that have been or will not be received. It's on the social committee table. When we are talking about today's session of the Social Affairs Committee, the aim of the Social Affairs Committee meeting today is still to proceed with the draft that was initiated by the members of the Riigikogu and to send it to the plenary hall of the Riigikogu for the next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U130	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U131	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, We're actually worse off than Jaak Juske asked. We actually have three similar draft proceedings. And in the past, when we are talking, for example, about increasing the age of sexual self-determination, changes related to flag days, similar drafts have been incorporated. And since it has now become apparent that this procedure for the first, very short deadline for the submission of amendments may become longer than we expected, this window will actually be created. Since there is a joint section, the increase in child benefits is supported by all political parties, it should be possible for the support of the first and second children, the support of a family rich in children, the support of a single parent to be dealt with together, to find a suitable solution to our legal space and to do it technically correctly. We could merge these three drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U132	Well, theoretically, everything is always possible. I have just received reports today, and yesterday I have received reports of how very many Social Democrats have withdrawn the Act amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu. So, frankly, I don't know how much will you really have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U133	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U134	Austet Chairman! Good waitress! Now you've gotten a little mean, ugly. First of all, thank you to my good benchmate Riina. Indeed, today there are two drafts initiated by the Social Democrats and similar drafts initiated by members of the larger group of the Riigikogu. How do you justify that this draft of the larger society of members of the Riigikogu has been dealt with as a matter of urgency, while it has taken a very long time for the procedure of drafts of the same meaning of social democrats? Why is unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U135	Thank you. I think there is no unequal treatment here; it has simply been a very clear will of the members of the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U136	Mr. Samke, you said you would thank your good benchmate, Riina Sikkut. Do you want to change? Odines is your penguin. We're gonna take... We've got a board of directors today, so we can redefine it. Please, give me the mike Jaak Juske! Would you like to change the benchmate? A procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U137	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I have a very good pennies Eduard Odines, I have a very good pennies Riina Sikkut and a very good pennies Heljo Pikhof. A good member of the Riigikogu has several good bench neighbors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U138	Got it. What about Kravtshenko, who's on your left hand? Please, Riina Sikkut, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U139	Thank you. I just wanted to say that maybe the chairman is less in the hall, doesn't know the language. For example, I turn to Peter Rahnel as my benchmate, even though he sits across the aisle, but communication is intense and friendly. And if you want to change places, you have to negotiate with a wider circle, you can't agree with the two of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U140	Thank you for helping me through this procedural dilemma. Got it. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U141	Thank you. I would still come back to combining these drafts. Let's be honest, there's a lot in your hands. You're the chairman of the committee, don't forget that. You're talking about a theoretical possibility, but there's also a practical possibility. I would very much have liked you to have come up with this draft coming on the agenda, this so-called multi-party draft, and the bill of understanding is in the process of putting them all here one day at the Riigikogu meeting, agreeing with our party, for example, but you did not. Your behaviour was actually determined to push our bill backwards and then the bill that suddenly came out on Monday. In fact, there is nothing theoretically to do here, but it is practically what you have done and purposely so that we, as we say, reduce one opposition party. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U142	Thank you. Mrs Pikhof, I absolutely disagree with you. You're just trying to give me the Socialists' unfinished work right now. I won't accept it. Seeing how we dealt with it is always an opportunity for you to come and take the initiative yourself so that we can review these procedural decisions. This initiative did not come from the Socialists. Right now, you just figured it out this week. In that sense, don't look at me. You better look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U143	Heljo Pikhof, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U144	Thank you. However, I would remind the chairman of the committee that I have also been chairman of this committee and that I myself have been negotiating to make a bill of good faith and good will, but not to exclude anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U145	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! In one answer to a question that was actually submitted very constructively by Riina Sikkut, you said that you would be informed of the withdrawal of your applications. Well, that wasn't a question. The question was about two Social Democratic Party drafts, which could have been answered calmly, not ironized. In fact, the matter was sincere and of interest. They have a similar content, also partly overlapping, and could be considered to be combined. If you had said that no, it is not appropriate or it did not come up with this in the Commission, it would have been quite enough. I know some people are asking and others are answering, but a little bit of respect for colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U147	Thank you for not asking me that question. I didn't see there was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U148	Rene Chef, please! Sorry, Rene Chef! Jaak Juske, please! A procedural question. A mike for Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U149	Thank you. President of the Riigikogu, could you confirm that if there are several drafts with similar content, the committee should first propose to merge them into one or at least discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U150	Thank you. You can always merge the drafts, but it is the decision of the commission, it is the debate that is desired. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! Just in case, I am going to be more specific, because there have been very confusing messages from the social democrats from the media, whether they support family benefits or not. As far as you know about this bill, do the Social Democrats still support their draft, or have someone asked you to remove their signature from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U152	This draft law, which we are dealing with today, should be the draft of the Social Democrats and, in my opinion, it should be valid. We wouldn't be discussing this in this Chamber today if we had already withdrawn the signatures somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U153	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U154	Thank you. I'm touching that topic, too. Good Chairman of the Commission, can't these 560 SEs and 619 SEs somehow become one? How do you feel? In one case, in fact, the deadline for amendments was already gone, in the other case, the first reading. It makes sense that they are processed together. But is it possible in real life how you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U155	Looking at today's practice, I do not think it is possible, because, above all, we are processing this draft today and there is a deadline of 10 working days for amendments. As far as this second draft is concerned, it already had a deadline for amendments yesterday at three o'clock. And we are already dealing with them today in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U156	Good waitress, thank you very much. No further questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? They want to open negotiations. I open negotiations and request a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group to the Riigikogu Chair. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U157	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the hall and behind the screens, and thousands of observers of the sitting! The draft initiated by the Socialists and Raimond Kaljulaid is a very good draft. We have already launched it on 22 March, in the hope that it will be dealt with quickly and perhaps in the case of an additional budget. It was taken into account that each child had an additional budget in November and every person receiving a pension, whether in the form of unemployment benefit, disability loss or old-age pension, but not in the form of children's allowance. Why don't we start today's presentation with some good news? The new health statistics newsletter points out that 13143 children were born in Estonia in 2021, which is 70 more children than in 2020. Good news. I hope that more children will be born in 2022 because every child has value, every child counts and every child deserves a childhood that is not harassed or at risk of poverty. Now, in order not to say that politicians are talking, but scientists think otherwise, I am also using the study mentioned by a good fellow, Heljo Pikhof, and the rapporteur, by Hede Sinisaar, Head of the Department of Analysis and Statistics of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who is a doctoral student at Tallinn University. This is part of his doctoral thesis, "The impact of Estonian family benefits on child poverty." What does it say? I quote: "UN Convention on the Rights of the Child [... ] under Articles 26 and 27, the child is entitled to an adequate standard of living and the child is entitled to social security benefits, which are different family benefits in Estonia, but above all are child benefits for all children. Reducing the share of children living in poverty is one of the goals of the Children's and Families Development Plan 2012 to 2020 and the Prosperity Development Plan 2016 to 2023. " Consequently, the country has made it a very clear objective to reduce child poverty. The same study points out that as poverty in kindergarten may increase the likelihood of poverty as an adult, the state social protection subsidy for children and families is seen as a forward-looking investment, so researchers also believe that it is an investment. The poor child is never alone, but the poor is the whole household and therefore the household's income is directly linked to the child's individual well-being. It is also a sign that by increasing the support of the first and second children to the third child, or EUR 100, which is the content of the draft that we have tabled, we are actually reducing children living in poverty and also families. Child poverty depends not on the child himself but on his household. Perhaps the child is not in control of the financial resources of his family, starting with the family that the child is born into or the educational and labour market choices his parents make. It has now also been pointed out that social policy and action in other areas on poverty are not only evident in the large proportion of the population living in poverty, but also in the extent to which social benefits reduce poverty. A little while looking at the impact of family benefits and child benefits, it is very clear that... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U158	Yes, but I have a problem now: how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U159	I'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U160	Please! Thank you for resolving this issue. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U161	Thank you very much. It has also been pointed out that the impact of family benefits on child poverty is, in fact, very clearly visible precisely when the support of the first and second children was increased from EUR 19 and from 18 cents in 2015 to EUR 45, which remained unchanged for ten years. Every following year, a small step of EUR 5 took place. Later, the support of a family rich in children came. And it ensured that many children and families in poverty got out of this poverty trap. Now, the concern is that, and the reason why we initiated this draft already on 22 March, is that the difference between the relative poverty rate of children and the rate of persistent poverty in Estonia has changed significantly. If it was very high in 2013, i.e. 10.3 points, then in 2018 it was 3.4. This is the fact that child benefits have risen, the support of a family of children has increased. Why is there a great deal of concern right now? It is noted that the difference has increased again between 2019 and 2020 and reached 9.1% in 2020. That's the problem. There is going back again because the support of the first and second children has not been raised and they have not been indexed in the same way, as in the case of pensions, it is very good that it is not dependent on the discretion of politicians. Yeah, you can always raise the base for a pension, and it increases everyone's pensions, but the pensions are indexed. So, if our economy is doing well, so will the pension. Actually, there's another problem. We certainly, as social democrats, are also proposing this draft, even though we have already tabled another draft, which talks about children and families and subsidies, a proposal to index child support. The second draft, to which we tabled the amendment, is intended to index only the support of a family rich in children. But that puts the children back in an unequal position. It may be that, depending on the government, as was the case before 2014, when the Social Democrats, together with the Reform Party, were in government, child benefits had remained unchanged for more than ten years. And that was unacceptable. All those governments who were there had considered something more important than child benefits, including social democrats, than they were in government. This mistake has been corrected, and since then, I think that children, regardless of the government, have always been considered to be very important. Finally, I want to say that every child counts. Every child is important, every child deserves a happy childhood. And parents deserve to have a fortress. For a third child to be born, it takes the first and the second. And for the fourth child to be born, surely the third is also needed. So I call on you to support this very excellent draft. In my opinion, it shows, as can be read in the media and everywhere, that there is no one against it: child support needs to be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U162	Dear waitress, thank you very much. I now ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. [[Urmas Reinsalu is asking for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U163	Sweet Helmen! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What do you mean, no one is against rising child benefits? We have 2 000 amendments to Parliament's procedure as an obstruction to block the rise in family allowances and child allowances. Helmen, you didn't dare directly mention this bill, the draft reform of family benefits and children's benefits from which you withdrew yesterday, on the day of child welfare. But in reality, this is the common part of the plan that we have to deal with without stretching and adopt here in Parliament and to exclude all these games and this rhetoric over it, as if the cross-party draft initiated by the opposition would mean a government crisis or anything else. There is no need to transfer these things to the heart of political intrigue. My appeal is to the Socialists: do not go along with the organisation next week, do not delay the night sittings to block the reform of child support for political reasons. If we can agree on this, it is, in fact, a very strong step forward in the development of political culture and in achieving practical solutions. Secondly, my appeal. Lauri Läänemets said that the Social Democrats have not decided how they will vote for or against the rise in child benefits, and they will shape this position on the basis of political positions. My appeal to you is boldly declared, publicly: the Social Democrats are ready to vote for an increase in child benefits and the Social Democrats are also ready to vote for a reform of the support of a family rich in children. Because it's a necessary initiative. We leave all kinds of political intrigues and speculation out of this area. We have had national defence based largely on consensus in the security and defence of the Estonian state. I think that the area of energy, population and family policy could be an area where we are looking for cross-party solutions, so that we reach out to each other and not turn our backs towards each other. This is my message, in fact, to everyone in this Chamber, to all political forces. And this is also a call for the Reform Party: seriously consider the [recall] of the constructive amendments. Just as I call on the Social Democrats to join in voting rather than the Obstruction, I actually call on them to think along and to work with the Reform Party and to take back these amendments, which are clearly of a constructive nature, to look for these solutions and also to look for ideas to complement this matter. We had a very good discussion on the team. There was Kert Kingo, I was on Tuesday, Helmen, Lauri and Siret Eagle. We had a team on Tuesday. We actually discussed these problems openly and, in my opinion, we also found practical solutions to the concerns that rightly address the support of a single parent. The amendment to this effect has certainly also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. I think it has been possible to point out the shortcomings that none of the initiators saw at the time when the draft was initiated. And I'm sure the Social Affairs Committee is working dynamically. Let's put this bill aside from political games. People do not want to see it, they are tired of these political games during the current crisis and in a very stressful time. People want to see what the Americans call delivery, so that as politicians we can provide people with real steps to improve their livelihood and the long-term perspective of the Estonian people. How have we got here? Politic games must not be like a wave of seas that goes over our heads at once. At the same time, the Social Democrats on Child Welfare Day withdraw their signatures from the draft reform of children's benefits. Then the blood will not be able to dry from this decision when on 2 June Helmen comes to the speaker's desk and says that his heart is melting inside, that the Social Democrats are actually entirely behind all these ideas, he has actually made amendments. I think it's not the words that matter, it's the action that counts. My appeal is to all the parliamentary forces in this Chamber: we are now bigger than ourselves for a moment. We act together, we work together, we work together, all political forces alone, we put political games aside for a moment. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we make consensual decisions. Let us not go with the obstruction on behalf of political intrigues and let us not associate this reform with it as if it meant some kind of government fall or a demand for the Prime Minister to resign. The Prime Minister does not have to resign because, together with three other political groups, the Social Democrats submitted a draft law on the reform of child support to Parliament. The Prime Minister also does not have to resign because of the adoption of today's draft by the Social Democrats. Nobody has to step down. If we have agreed on this by consensus, it is, in fact, already a great special weight to find a quick solution before the summer. We are excluding political games; we are working on the result for the few weeks that Parliament has time to act during this session. Let's do it. Believe me, it's good. Even though we have critics who complain about various aspects. Where the money comes from, they ask. I'm sorry! The VAT overrun in the first quarter compared to the reference period last year was 119 million euros in the first quarter. Inflation will inevitably result from higher taxation of people due to price increases, while people will also pay more in overall terms of consumption taxes. And let's compare: just the first quarter of this year's VAT overrun compared to last year, 119 million euros, the money comes out of people's pockets. And now we compare it with the cost of the draft reform of family benefits, which is EUR 240 million. It's actually half that cost, one-quarter overrun, VAT. Reform Party! Take back these amendments, we will move forward together. And believe me, all this criticism, all this foam, it's falling down, it's all in the pre-meeting situation, and we've taken some practical steps to ensure greater certainty for our families, the additional budget didn't include measures to alleviate the inflation crisis. If we look at the news on Tuesday, Eurostat news that 20.1% of inflation has accelerated again in the reference period of a month. Jürgen Ligi talks all the time that it is short-term inflation and, in reality, price increases should not be prevented by various measures or mitigated because people consume less and it is actually a virtue of itself. People are also able to save themselves without high standards of wisdom in a situation where it is difficult to make ends meet. They're doing it for their family. It doesn't take a big saxon or a queen to teach them how to end up just living from payday to payday. But now the question is that action is needed, not just hollow rhetoric. And it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U164	Thank you. Now there are three procedural questions, let's go through them, and then, Helmen Kütt, you'll have a reception. And, of course, Jürgen Ligi will also receive an answer. Jaak Juske, did anything happen to the microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U165	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a very big problem. I listened to the talk of a good friend, Urmas Reinsalu, where he read about the benefits that the Fatherland supports, and he never mentioned a significant increase in the support of a single parent. Is the Fatherland really not ready to support single parents more? It's horrible!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U166	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U167	Thank you. Too bad Urmas Reinsalu has now left the remote...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U168	Well, it's been eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U169	...he mentioned the Social Democrats here. I consider myself a Social Democrat, and that is why I have a question for him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U170	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! This opportunity is not currently provided by the Home and Working Procedures Act that you can ask questions here in the context of a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U171	No, but it's procedural. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U172	Then I'm sure you will. If something mike doesn't work or anything... Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U173	A procedural question. Does your party support raising the support of a single parent child? We have heard that we do not support and that there is too little support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U174	Thank you. I really do not consider this to be a procedural question for myself right now, and I cannot start talking about what the Centre Party supports or does not support. You're asking me procedural questions, aren't you asking the courtroom for procedural questions? Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U175	Has it been known to the President of the sitting that on Tuesday a working group on the reform of family allowances met, including the Social Democrats, and where the Fatherland did not express any opposition in any way in order to increase the support of the single parent? As far as I know, this issue is being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and we are certainly favourable in this respect. There is no need for such a situation of concern and fear. And I'm glad I can take these tensions down in this hall. This is actually a practical step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U176	Thank you. George Jaanson, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U177	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Well, it's not strictly procedural, but since I hear there's a question of extending the Family Benefits Act, I want to add a procedurally offended thought that no one here is talking about. There is talk of a single parent's allowance here, but if you add one parent's allowance to the Family Benefits Act, the only one that does not raise the disabled parent's allowance. It's all forgotten. It's like a procedural remark. If you are talking about extending all these laws, which is very right in itself, talk about the disabled parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U178	Thank you. Against... I couldn't make it before. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U179	I think Jüri Jaanson's point is very important. Certainly, as the President of the sitting is aware, on Monday, Helir-Valdor Seeder, on behalf of all the initiators, emphasised that we are open to additions. To be honest, I was able to examine some 700 or 800 amendments from the Reform Party. I haven't read everything yet. If it includes these proposals, I would certainly call for constructively... If that's the price of quitting the obstruction, I'd be willing to seriously consider it, Jüri's proposal. Does the President have any information on whether this could be an agreement to prevent parliamentary obstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U180	Thank you. I don't have that kind of information. Kert Kingo, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U181	Thank you. Since the common name "single parent" has simply been spoken here, but so far it has not been specified, I say, the viewers will understand: there is a category of single parent and there is a category of parent raising alone. Then the viewers will understand. That's why I specified it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U182	Thank you. And now for the reception, Helmen Hunter, please! And this reception is due to the fact that Urmas Reinsalu mentioned you from this speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U183	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I really want to say for the verbatim report that people who will later write and read history would understand that today there was a law on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act 560 at first reading. Both the waitress and the speech were about this law. And I stress: it was launched on 22 March. Now, on Monday, in addition to a long list of initiators, there is indeed a draft law amending the Family Benefits Act with the same name, which was initiated only last week. Today we are discussing a law that was initiated on 22 March, and I assumed that speeches would be made on [the] law. But indeed, the questioner asks, the respondent answers and the speaker speaks what he wants, it is not dictated here. I would like to say once again that the Social Democrats have always considered the increase in child benefits to be important, that is what we remain behind and that is what we are defending. We're such a lovely big family here where we say to each other such beautiful alliances as "lovely" and "good" and "beautiful," well that's very sweet, I'd say. It was just a comment that in the future it will be known to history if anyone else is going to give a speech that we are talking about this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U184	Thank you for that clarification. Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U185	Thank you, good Chairman! I'm not a Socialist, but we...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U186	If the microphone doesn't work, say it. Then you have to say a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U187	I assume he's working. I'm not a Social Democrat, but I also have a procedure for the annals of history. This draft, which was spoken about by the previous speaker, was not launched last week, as last week was non-sessional, but 619 SEs were initiated much earlier. So we'd have that in the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U188	Got it. Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, address.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U189	Thank you. I remember Urmas Reinsalu, and I don't mind if he gets bigger on me, he gets bigger like that. But you could tell the truth. I have not commended the fact that when people consume less, it is good, even though I could speak it in my green conscience. But this is not the debate on this debate. I have said that when we pay for inflation, we will increase inflation. This is macroeconomic truth. Urmas lacks early childhood education to understand how the economy works. I can say that I rely on a lot of experts in this. The country must not survive beyond force, especially in a situation where inflation is very high. He's got to control himself. He's got to direct the money exactly. And as far as child support is concerned, the most important thing is to improve the availability of services that everyone needs. Most families do not need financial support; this situation is not as bad as it seems in this Chamber. We need to maintain macro-balance, financial sustainability and the level of funding for services. The fatherland is of a different opinion, he thinks that the pension must be paid out during his working life. Every year, hundreds of millions must be taken, I think, even talking about a billion and distributing it in cash. This is definitely our disagreement. We want, above all, education, health and education of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U190	Thank you. Jaak Juske, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U191	I really have a question about the procedures of the Riigikogu. We still have three draft laws dealing with similar content or, let us say, a similar subject in the proceedings today. Shouldn't the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Executive Board of the Riigikogu intervene here and turn to the commission to take time off and discuss very seriously the incorporation of these drafts into one?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U192	Thank you. You know very well that the lead committees are very independent in this respect. And that must be the case, it has actually been one of the content of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, that in fact the committees are autonomous and make these decisions, whether or not to merge, within the committee. That's what I said before. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Is the President aware of this information? Looking at the level of public expenditure and also at the level of extraordinary additional budgets, in the context of the previous discussion by Jürgen Ligi, whose geography and economic competence I do not question in any way... [[Jürgen Ligi will comment on the floor.]] The question is that the additional budgets have actually increased the bare budget by nearly EUR 1 1/1 billion and the base budget has increased by nearly EUR 1 billion compared to the previous RES. So, of course, these volumes, calculated together, have been leveraging inflation rather than cutting inflation, there is no question of that. Is this information available to the President of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U194	Thank you. I don't have that exact information straight from here, numerically, but the supplementary budget information is generally there, yes. Now I have a request, Heljo and Helmen, both for you, for these procedural questions... Actually, Lauri Läänemets, our good co-worker, she's also got a chance to say yes, but you're coming in right now. And so it is. Heljo Pikhof, please! A procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U195	Thank you very much. I'm so sorry, Urmas, for telling your neighbor by whispering in your ear. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I didn't hear anything you said. Please repeat that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U196	Thank you. There's no way that's possible right now. [[Heljo Pikhof explains something.]] Helmen Hunter, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U197	Thank you very much. Can you confirm that this good information, which is now shared with us all, is true, so that Heljo Pikhof did not hear, remains in the verbatim? [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U198	Thank you. It's a verbogram. Thank you very much. I don't have any technical information right now that nobody's heard yet. He stays on the verbatim. Okay. Lauri Läänemets, address. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U199	Thank you. In order to be clear now, and to ensure that people are not left with the wrong view of the way things are going, either by reading the verbatim report or by listening to this session today, [I will explain]. In his speech Urmas Reinsalu spoke about draft 619 and the work of this working group, and I really must say that at one point the Fatherland began to support this proposal of sots, the support of a single parent. At first, they needed to explain it, and they asked why it was important. But I appreciate that they started supporting it at one point. But now the attentive listeners will surely have a question of who did not support them. It's upstairs. And I have to say, the EKRE didn't support me. Whether it's a matter of... Well, "single parent" is a term that we use in law, and it really doesn't matter whether he's a single parent in one direction or the other, but it's about children, not parents. There's a question of children. The question is that these are child benefits and laws, there we should look at children. But for some reason, representatives of the EKRE... Well, I'm not gonna use those words here, because then there's gonna be a new scandal in Estonia, what they called single parents. But it's not the child that matters to them, it's the parent that matters to them. And it didn't suit the Social Democrats at all. We discussed and we cannot even imagine how children can be thought of in such a way that their parent determines whether they are important to one party or not. That is a very fundamental question. Unfortunately, these group discussions cannot be openly shown here, but they did. It was a red light, why can't we imagine that the EKRE party would actually take seriously this 619 SE if they weren't interested in child poverty. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U200	Thank you. The question came from the hall at the time of Lauri Läänemets's [speech] that was what it was. We've really had a lot of procedural questions between us. Since Urmas Reinsalu was the representative of the Isamaa Group in the round of negotiations, he gave a speech, he mentioned Lauri in the West Forest, it was a reception. And actually, I think Kert Kingo has an answer to that. What's in Heljo Pikhof, I don't know yet, but it's gonna come out. Mart Helme, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U201	Yes, I would like to draw Mr President-in-Office's attention to the fact that some form of completely separate format has developed here, in which, in the course of non-procedural and procedural matters, there is an interpersonal discussion and speech in the Chamber, which should take place during the negotiations on the remote. I think we've lost that procedure right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U202	Thank you. I agree with you that we all understand that these last procedural questions have not been procedural. But if a member of the Riigikogu raises his hand with this special button or special badge, then there is no way to say that I will not give him the floor because there is no procedural question. I'm just asking you not to take advantage of this opportunity, badly, but if you really have a procedural question, please let me know. Mart Helme, you had a procedural question. And I agree with that. And I really wish... Since Kert Kingo was appointed in the round of negotiations, he now has an opportunity to speak. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Lauri West Forest, procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Now, please explain to us. You agreed with Mr Helme's observation that some of the questions here are not procedural, but may be speeches. But I remember earlier times when our Members, our colleagues, Mart Helme, Kalle Grünthal and everyone else, have made much longer and not at all speeches on the subject, but they have not been given such comments. Why don't you explain where the difference goes? I don't understand at all right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U204	I am sure that the managers have made comments. When you put your hand up and say that there is a procedural question, it is said that if this question lasts for half a minute, a minute, a few minutes, it actually takes three minutes, it is a speech. It has been said that this is not a procedural question. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act gives no other opportunity for the President to say that I will interrupt the procedural question or I will not take it. So the answer to your procedural question, what it was now, is this: it has certainly been said in the past that this is not the procedural question you are asking. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I propose that the procedural debate be closed and that we move on to the final negotiations. And I am sorry that my speech caused such a heavy threat in various formats. My only message was aimed at cooperation and achieving a substantive result. And, of course, I also congratulated the Socialists for presenting this draft, as was the point, on 22 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U206	Yeah. Thank you. Over, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U207	Thank you! Yes, just as my good colleague Urmas Reinsalu mentioned earlier here, on Tuesday we really had a very constructive and constructive debate on draft 619 concerning both child support and families with child support. And on Tuesday, while it still had the Socialist signature of support, unfortunately, as my good colleague mentioned here, it was really the case that these signatures were removed on Child Protection Day. We interpret this as if they did not support child support or families with child support. Maybe here it goes against what they claim in this Chamber, that they support, but they actually took the signatures out of it and they don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U208	Thank you for your speech. I ask Jürgen Ligi, representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair. Please! [[Jürgen Ligi is asking for more time.]] Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U209	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Urmas, I'm going to name it, but I'm not going to listen to what he says to me to respond to it, because he talks too much, somehow trying to minimize me all the time in my specialties. No, I speak mostly as an economist here, although as an economic geographer, I could also be a sociologist. That's not the argument that you're always tearing me down. But I'm telling you, Urmas, think about why your rating has never really ascended to heaven and why he tends to go to the mud with your party's. Because the hypocrisy and populism you're talking about is not credible. You're not sincere when you come here and blow your paato on the remote. It's not true that half of your claims are elementary, except that they're pompous. Anti-child support in this hall, I think there aren't any more. The whole point is how children's benefits relate to the general state's capacity, how they relate to the general state's needs, and in this sense, of course, this connection to the draft legislation is much greater than that of the ECtHR draft, which is simply a vicious populism and does not take into account anything that takes into account the financial situation, does not take into account what children most need. It's not like you're counting on it, either, but there's a reasonable element here. For example, the support of a single parent is certainly more needed than the support of the first or second child. After all, the general situation of children is that we should lay down our own laws and social policy. And second, our financial capacity. The financial capacity is extremely vulnerable, firstly, by the EKREIK government and before it, and secondly, by the crisis. Our budget is in a situation where Eesti Pank is already ringing the alarm, where one fifth of the tax revenue is soon missing. This isn't a joke. It's not a thing to laugh about, to bravure on this remote control, it's a fact. Therefore, the more we have to choose costs. And if we choose, there must be some hierarchy. What does all children need? All children need a very good education. We cannot raise teachers' salaries at the necessary pace. The situation is like this, and the priorities disperse like duck sesamune on the surface of the water. Everyone's got all the priorities, they throw money everywhere? In fact, we burn with teachers' salaries, actually we burn with higher education. And that's the first thing the kids need. Of course, there is a problem in healthcare. And, of course, all children need better services. Most parents do not need cash from the real state, because this money has been collected from them. The main taxpayer is a parent, nothing can be done there. Now, take everyone's tax and pay everyone back. It doesn't help anything. That's what Kaspar Oja has been saying nicely, has recently admitted. It is not about denying child support at all, but about putting them in the context of the needs of others and then assessing what is needed more, whether a teacher has a salary or a teacher's knowledge that he is wearing clothes, students are already looking contemptuously, but he feels good about having children receiving child support. The thing is, the parent's got another couple of euros a month. Still, what determines the future and well-being of children is primarily a service, and that is what we are talking about. Now is it obstruction or not obstruction? Of course, we must reach some kind of agreement here in the Riigikogu or choose a new Riigikogu. Surely this is not the way in which a country can be ruled, that hundreds of millions are being thrown out while we have completely extraordinary military costs, when we have completely extraordinary costs for refugees, when we have completely extraordinary costs for inflation. But the fact is, our children's situation is relatively good. It is said by every intelligent sociologist that the level of child poverty is below average, in the European view, the situation of children in the hierarchy of social problems is quite behind us, there are many more serious problems, social problems that we cannot deal with. So there are problems, you have to rank them. And then the economical thing that Urmas was lying about again: when we pay inflation for everyone, we get higher inflation. That's stupid. All the time, the balance must actually be made between controlling inflation and reducing, say, the pain that exists in society. We know that if inflation is 20%, everyone is angry. But they need to be told what this is all about. The common need for everyone is for the state to be funded and for it to be able to finance services. Next is who needs what kind of grants. Not everyone needs such lush benefits. This hall, in fact, although most of us have children and grandchildren, does not need more cash from the state. Many other halls, many other Czechs, if I may say so, do not need more cash. Before there is proper and high-level funding for higher education, before there is a decent level of teacher's pay. And if we do, we must do so in the context of the budget. Very big needs, extraordinary. An extra budget of 800 million. You don't have enough, you throw another 300, not in any context. So it's embarrassing. Urmas, don't blow yourself up, try not to come here, try not to take advantage of the speaking power you have been offered, I won't look forward to it. Try to be sincere. Try to be honest. The Fatherland was once, more or less fair, not to the end, but still. Still, he said that the state must cope with the money it has and channel it to where there is real pain, not necessarily where there will be more votes. Urmas, you haven't been able to bring that vote, either. Think about it. Don't replace the Fatherland. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U210	Thank you. There's a reception now. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U211	Thank you. Good Jurgen, try to be honest. Try to avoid the populist rhetoric that this government practiced with an extra budget. You said child poverty wasn't a problem. At the same time, in the case of an additional budget, this government initiated what question? All children will receive a lump sum of EUR 50 in November. All this rhetoric that uniform child support is not necessary, it is a impractical waste of money, not a targeted one, in fact it is necessary to solve the issue of higher education. This government coalition preferred a one-off payment of EUR 50 in November, of course for the purpose of purchasing votes, there is no doubt about that; it was also not ashamed of the reform parties themselves to say that it is actually marketing activity. Then, at the moment, Jürgen Ligi skilfully contrasted the agreement on higher education with child benefits, family allowance reform, the financing crisis for higher education. But I would like to remind you, I would point out that funding agreements with higher education institutions have been open for more than six months. And somehow I have not understood that processing this draft law on family benefits is some kind of guarantee that contracts with higher education institutions will be bound. Perhaps it was a hint that if Isamaa renounces the signatures on the draft reform of family benefits, the Reform Party is willing to release Estonian universities from the hostage situation and to start financing them in the way that the application has actually been. If that is the case, I believe that this is a immoral business against one area of life, with others, with our higher education institutions, with our national science and families with our children. Jürgen Ligi referred here to research, in the long term. Then I will also refer to studies on how much child-rich family support has contributed to the intensification of the disease. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And second of all, no study is a criminal, it doesn't take into account, let's say, the high inflation level, which is 20% on the basis of Tuesday's information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U212	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Mart Helme. Please! Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U213	I don't think we have any extra time. I'll try to make it through the remaining five minutes or four minutes. Thank you. I congratulate the Social Democratic Party for raising the issue. This topic, single parents, their livelihood, the well-being of these children, is just as important as the overall management of families, because it is a common concern and a common subject for all of us. The previous speaker of the Reform Party, of course, made a depressing cynical impression. I remembered Vana-Egypt, remembering Moses, who carried his people out through the Red Sea, because I had the very clear impression that he did not think that money needed to be given to people because it fueled inflation. Let's give them a bowl of rice, some dummies on their back. Let's make them some kind of Gulag or Mao Zedong community, and that's fine. The state controls the wallet, the state controls the actions of the people, the state controls that everyone is somehow getting fed up, the clothes on, and the necessary or useful work for the state. It's amazing that it's a representative of a liberal party calling itself a liberal. Now the money. After all, the Reform Party is the victim of the money fetish. I don't know, they'd put money in whatever it takes at the expense of people. Where does the money come from? The same government, which is, of course, absurd, the government that is obstructing and voting against each other, is already such a circus-like phenomenon, but there is plenty of money. It was only with an additional budget of 272 million, because our group member, Leo Kunnas, calculated, that 272 million went to Ukrainian war refugees, but not to their children. They say, no, no, no, no money, money's gotta come from somewhere. $100 million was allocated by this government to its reserve fund. Is this 100 million left, actually eight months left until the elections, absolutely necessary? But maybe 20 million would be enough, and 80 million would go to our kids? There's plenty of money. It's not like there's no money. There's plenty of money! Nor is it that if inflation is 21%, it is said to wipe your mouth out of the extra money, because it heats up inflation. That's absurd! What am I going to say in conclusion? I would like to conclude by saying that, in this Chamber, neither in the context of this bill nor in the context of the draft family allowances, is there really talk about the livelihood of children and families, but there is mud wrestling. Coalition parties have now played themselves like some kind of soomyl, hardcore, and they don't realize in this aimless struggle that the more they struggle, the deeper they sink, and the less focused those who, according to these drafts, should actually receive help from the state, the state budget and our attitude as one of the most important problems in our society and our nation's survival. It's completely slipped under the radar, now it's hand-wringing, kicking, mud wrestling in the most filthy way at the expense of our children. And that's the most embarrassing story about the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-02_U214	Thank you. Now, good fellows, the situation is that it is after two o'clock, so we cannot close the negotiations, and by processing this draft we will proceed to the sitting that will be next Monday. Thank you. Today's trial is over.
