ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! If we get a little quieter in the Chamber, we will have the opportunity to start the Monday session of the 8th working week of the VII session. As always, it is possible to hand over drafts or enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. First the Black of Aadu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U2	[[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U3	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic." Its contents are about school food. And it has two points: "1. As a result of the rapid increase in the price of basic foodstuffs, the amount of the school lunch grant from the state budget will be adjusted and a corresponding draft amendment of the state budget will be initiated. 2. Not to apply § 95 (4) (8) of the Public Procurement Act to tenderers or candidates whose breach of contract resulted from a rapid increase in prices of basic foodstuffs and to initiate a corresponding amendment to the law.' A simple story has happened in the last few months: basic foods have become about twice as expensive. Schools can't do it. Those companies that have won the procurement are in an inescapable situation. In such a case, if they were to come out of the procurement now, they would be subject to sanctions, they would be listed in the public procurement register and would no longer be able to participate in subsequent procurements. I know that in very many areas Estonia will have an analogous situation. But I think it's the quickest thing about school food right now. We don't want children to consume poor quality food because of cheap school food. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U5	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U6	Honourable Vice President! Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. It is clear that Russia's attack on Ukraine will also have an impact on the Estonian economy, as well as on the sanctions imposed by the European Union. As a result, the state's revenue is likely to fall, while due to this war we are forced to make additional spending on defence as well as on other areas. All these expenses are undoubtedly necessary. In order for us to have a better overview of how this war has begun with the Estonian economy and our public finances with all our fellow Members who are in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we have prepared an inquiry with our good colleagues from the Social Democratic Party to the Finance Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimpus. This concerns the impact of Russian aggression on the Estonian economy. We ask the Minister of Finance to come to the Riigikogu to give us all a comprehensive and exhaustive overview of this issue, and hopefully also an opportunity to hold a substantive debate and debate on the same subject in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U7	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U9	Today's harvest was three drafts and one inquiry. The Governing Board shall decide on their further processing time and again in accordance with the Law on Home and Working Procedures. Now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U10	83 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the agenda is adopted, I have one clarification to give you. In particular, the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove the seventh item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the draft law amending the Aviation Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 524. With this clarification, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 8th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U11	74 members of the Riigikogu support the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U12	Let's get to work. Today's first item is the address by the Riigikogu members Sven Sester, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe, Andres Metsoja, Riho Breiveli, Rene Koka, Aivar Koka, Uno Kaskpeiti, Ruuben Kaalepi, Helle-Moonika Helme, Alar Lanemani, Leo Kunnas, Mart Helme, Paul Puustusmaa, Kert Kingo, Urmas Reitelmanni, Merry Aarti, Jaak Valge, Priit Sibula, Heiki Hepner, Mikhail Lotmani, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Henn Põljaasa, Urmas Reinsalu, Martin Helme and Siim Pohlakka to the Riigikogu of the European Union and NATO Member States and other national parliaments, 541, first reading. Please waitress Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu. But before we go into the process, I'll remind you how we deal with it. First, Urmas Reinsalu's presentation will be 20 minutes, then the representative of the commission will be up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question and the representatives of the political groups and committees take the floor during the negotiations. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U13	Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! Good people of Ukraine! With this appeal, which we have on our tables, we express our support for the defenders of the Ukrainian state and the people in the fight against the Russian Federation that started the criminal war. Currently, Ukrainian soldiers and civilians are dying. Their only fault is for the aggressor to love their homeland and their freedom. The Riigikogu has adopted a consensus statement in January to support Ukraine's independence. In February, on the eve of the war, we adopted a statement condemning the threat to Russia's war of aggression. A full-scale war will last for the third week. The approach under discussion is a clear message: both Estonia and the Western countries as a whole must do more for Ukraine. This is why the approach taken by the Riigikogu is highlighted by the appeal to the parliaments of NATO and European Union countries. Parliaments must express to their national governments a moral demand for a stronger aggressor control without delay. Ukraine is currently fighting not only for itself, but also for our civilisation and its values as a whole in Europe. The country of the Russian war is Ukraine. However, while, by definition of military law, third countries are not in a military conflict alongside Ukraine and Russia and Belarus, Putin has also launched an aggression war against us, the Western countries. The ultimatums on the pretext of this war unambiguously demanded that Russia's western neighbours be subjected to the influence of Russia. The results of this war will determine the fate of the Ukrainian people, the future of Russia and our vital security situation for an unpredictable period. Ukraine must achieve military victory over the aggressor. It is also a human justice, the principles of the international legal order, Ukraine and a paradox for the future and without exaggeration of the Russian and Belarusian people, not just for the security of our region, but for the security of the entire planet. The number and cruelty of tanks against civilians must not be a cost-effective principle for international relations. The text of our referral has changed in certain wordings in the constructive discussions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I will therefore present more specific wordings, based on a consensually agreed new version of the referral and on the wording agreed between all the political groups in the drafting group. The most important message of our appeal is defined in the call for states to take immediate steps, in cooperation, to establish a no-fly zone to prevent mass civilian casualties in Ukraine. Both the President of Ukraine and the Parliament have spoken with the request to impose a ban on NATO countries. On 9 March, the Speaker of the Supreme Rada of Ukraine, Ruslan Stefanchuk, addressed the members of the Riigikogu. In his dramatic letter, he asked the Estonian Riigikogu for one thing: "We ask the Estonian Riigikogu to invite other NATO countries to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine. " He emphasizes in his address: " Colleagues! Our request is vital for the survival of a population of 44 million. Now that Ukraine is fighting for its existence, we hope that with joint efforts we will be able to bring an end to Vladimir Putin's terror on the European continent." When we visited Ukraine last week with members of the Riigikogu, the message of the no-fly zone was the first request of all Ukrainian politicians. As the mayor of Lviv said, this is our number one, number two and number three. Hundreds of small posters in Ukrainian national colours have been glued to the streets of Ukrainian cities with the text "Clear Sky." These English texts are not for the Ukrainians themselves. They're meant as a cry for help to us, the whole Western world. The UN General Assembly has adopted by an overwhelming majority a resolution condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The concept of no-fly zone is a couple of generations old in international law. No-fly zones have previously been established both by the mandate of the United Nations Security Council and by the States coalition that will establish a no-fly zone. The concept of a no-fly zone has been used in the past, inter alia, against countries to prevent them from using their airspace for example for attacks against civilians. Ukraine applies for a no-fly zone on its territory, not to any extent over Russia or Belarus territory. The introduction of a no-fly zone also does not mean that it can be decided by NATO as an organisation. NATO countries with military capabilities may participate in the relevant coalition, but the participation of non-NATO countries is also conceivable. Russia has mass bombed civilian objects across Ukraine to intimidate the population and cause a humanitarian disaster. The bombing of Western Ukraine took place yesterday, which aimed, among other things, to prevent the humanitarian corridor from operating in the Polish-Ukrainian direction. States that establish a no-fly zone must act at the request of the Ukrainian State and must lay down the implementing rules under which flights are permitted. It is important to take the necessary steps to enforce the no-fly zone immediately as the Riigikogu turns. Just knowing that the Western countries do not rule out a no-fly zone, but are under discussion as an opportunity, will put pressure on the aggressor. This is Ukraine's message. Fear of Putin's countersteps has so far prevented that decision from being made. Unfortunately, the result of these doubts leads to more mass deaths and an increase in the international security threat. The Governor of Lviv told us last week that we would win if you dare to establish a no-fly zone. If you don't, it's your responsibility to kill people on your shoulders. The least we can do today is to address the parliaments of other countries. The Lithuanian Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs was the first institution in a third country to call for this last week. The appeal of the Estonian Riigikogu would be the first appeal to the Parliament of NATO and the European Union. Our appeal calls for a comprehensive trade embargo against the Russian Federation and Belarus. Unfortunately, the Western world has chosen to impose sanctions by slices. Sanctions also have an economic impact on those who impose them, and they are certainly different from the economies of the countries that impose them, as a result of the specific sanctions. However, the current situation is unprecedented after World War II and the scope of sanctions must also be unprecedented. We have to choose a policy of introducing a package of step-by-step sanctions, in the hope that the fear of further sanctioning steps will deter Russia from doing something worse, and the foreseeable decline in the Russian economy over the long term will force it to end the aggression. But Russia is just contributing to short-term military success. He's been escalating new war crimes day by day through his brutality. The policy of western sanctions must be different. It must aim at a comprehensive trade embargo. Its price is painful for everyone, but this price is lower than that of children and women dying from bombs. Maximising sanctions is ultimately also a more rational way. If the aim is to achieve such short-term pressure on Russia in order to achieve the end of aggression, the slice-by-slice movement is not a rational choice. A comprehensive trade embargo will certainly mean that the consumers and businesses it hit will have to be supported by the countries and the European Union as a whole. This would mean the interruption of actual trade with some humanitarian exceptions between Russia and the countries imposing sanctions on the Western world. The Western world must say that Russia will not be traded and those who trade with Russia outside the Western world will also risk sanctioning consequences. The ships should not carry goods from Russia and Russia. The banks should not transfer money for Russian business. At the meeting with Lukashenko, Putin announced that the Soviet Union was also able to be strong under sanctions. The answer to this arrogance is that the trade embargo must have such economic firepower as has not been imposed on the Soviet Union before. And it has to be done now. Western countries may also experience war fatigue and routines in the news stream. But it can never become a routine for us, because this war, as I said, is also for our freedom. We call on the parliaments of other countries to put pressure on their governments. I stress the importance of this appeal, in practice, to bring it to the other parliaments. It would be useful to urgently hold an interparliamentary meeting on parliamentary cooperation in countering Russian aggression and supporting Ukraine. Estonia could be one of the initiators here. In addition, we call for Ukraine's full support in the appeal. Unfortunately, in providing both military assistance and financial assistance, we see a similar policy in the international community, which is characteristic of sanctions. War is expensive, war is killing people, but huge amounts of ammunition and weapons systems are also being destroyed. People need food, society needs to work. It is important for the Western community to give two messages to the Ukrainian people, but also to the Russian Federation as an aggressor. Firstly, the West is ready to continue supplying weapons and ammunition on the basis of an open bill. The European Union, the United States and other countries of the same kind must put together a comprehensive package that guarantees supplies according to what Ukraine needs and what is logistically possible, not what the countries are willing to offer separately, simply out of goodwill. Secondly, the same must be true of financial aid to keep Ukraine going. The United States of America, the European Union must also be prepared to set the order of $100 billion in order for Ukraine to withstand. In comparison, the Afghan war alone cost the United States 2 trillion, and when we talk about the volume of the European Union's financial perspective, it exceeds a trillion euros. Next, we stress in the appeal that it is necessary to give Ukraine the status of candidate country for membership of the European Union and the roadmap to NATO. Legally, this decision could have been made already last week in Versailles, which would have been conceivable according to the European Treaties. The Commission would certainly have made its assessment on Thursday, at the request of the Heads of State. Our task is to force both the Estonian Parliament and the parliaments of other countries of the same kind to make this decision in the coming days. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support this emergency address in today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U14	Andres Metsoja starts with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Urmas Reinsalu! Indeed, if this approach is approved here in the hall I think it will, then it should actually be followed by a sequence of activities. Would you be willing to briefly describe what might follow if Members were to accept this appeal? Because, in fact, declarations and appeals are right to point to the problem, but the question is how to achieve a solution. Would you be willing to describe this side a little bit, or to report your vision to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U16	Thank you. Our approach, in short, to sum up one sentence, is to act more intensively. Of course, direct decisions concerning the allocation of funds to support Ukraine, the separation of weapons systems, and the establishment of a no-fly zone, will be taken by national governments within their respective spheres of competence. However, in such a situation, it is crucial that this political pressure is expressed not only by civil society but also by parliaments in the world of public opinion. That's the point of this appeal. Our call, of course, also has a political signal for our own government to act and to express their positions in intergovernmental discussions, whether in national associations or in voluntary coalitions, on a matter. But, of course, it is important that we take the message of this appeal to the other parliaments as well. We have been thinking more specifically about the parliaments of NATO and the European Union, but we are also referring to all the United Nations Member States. Interparliamentary cooperation on this issue to call for stronger, more effective action by governments is just as important. It shapes public opinion in these countries and will certainly affect governments to make any decisions faster. My message on this appeal is to the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state. It is an appeal to our allies, and it is an appeal to itself. The practical step in this appeal is that we must deliver this message. And, of course, we must build on the positions that have been set out in this address to shape our parliamentary positions on practical issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U17	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U18	Thank you. Well, this approach is absolutely necessary, especially in terms of shaping the mental space of the Western countries. Undoubtedly, the introduction of this no-fly zone, as the Ukrainians themselves have emphasised, is of the utmost importance or most important at present. But my question specifically concerns the last part of this statement, where we are talking about the European Union and NATO perspective to the Ukrainians, which is also extremely important and moral support for the warring state of Ukraine at the moment. And it has been said here that we support Ukraine's official request to become a candidate country for membership of the European Union. And Estonia's position, as I understand it, is that Estonia supports Ukraine's clear perspective of accession to the European Union and granting Ukraine the status of EU candidate country in accordance with Article 49 of the EU Treaty. This means a normal procedure, i.e. not an urgent procedure. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is this sufficient, and why is Estonia in such a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U19	Thank you. This point, in itself, of both Ukraine's candidate status for the European Union and the road map for NATO membership, was clearly expressed with a slight distinction in our last statement, which we adopted on the eve of the war, between the fact that at that moment Ukraine had not made a formal request. Now he's presented it. The European Parliament has shaped its position. In accordance with the Treaty on European Union, the decision to grant candidate country status is taken by the Member States of the European Union in the format of the Council, following an assessment by the Commission. The question in itself is how long this assessment will take, right, in time, as I said, and it is a question of political will. Legally, this assessment can be made and the technical readiness to comply with the requirements and rules of the European Union can be assessed for a very long time. But if there is political will, it can certainly be assessed in real time. I think it is important for us that we call on the European Union to make this decision as soon as possible and without stretching, in keeping, of course, with this Treaty formulation. Because, of course, candidate status is not in itself a member status. But it is a tremendous moral encouragement for the Ukrainian people. This is felt by the Ukrainians themselves, and I think we feel it perfectly too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U20	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U21	Thank you very much. Good Urmas! Let's talk about no-fly zone. Please tell me how much you believe in the possibility of establishing a no-fly zone. I understand that we have the will because we see certain fears that nothing else will succeed. But we also know that NATO's leading country, the United States, has at least confirmed publicly that it will not. How do you believe that's still possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U22	This war has changed very much, an active war phase since 24 February, and it has made it possible, in various areas, for the Western countries to make decisions that were not yet considered possible before the war. In my opinion, our political call for all countries must be this: steps must be taken to enforce the no-fly zone without delay. This is our political message. Undoubtedly, in the political reality that a good questioner refers to when we talk about military capabilities, the central force is to ensure a no-fly zone depending on the rules of enforcement (rules of engagement) in the United States of America in military terms. Undoubtedly, if you look at the discussions between the House of Representatives and the Senate, it is a subject that is being discussed in the United States. It's not in any way behind the table in political discourse. I will not go into criticism here, to point out what is being said at NATO level, what our allies are saying, but in such a situation, I would be extremely careful and not stressing what is not being done. I don't see any need for that in a situation like this. I think it makes sense that these questions are in the air. Of course, the governments of the countries enforcing a possible flight ban will make a political decision which, at the same time, has a huge military-operational significance. Of course, enforcement rules are possible and the way this is done is to implement them. But I also want to stress that the situation is changing step by step. Unfortunately, we are also seeing the massive increase in civilian casualties that the war has brought about in recent days. Above all, I would stress that the aim of a no-fly zone is precisely to prevent mass civilian casualties. And I think that those positions that may be negative the last day may not be the next day, given the public opinion of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U23	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Diplomacy is a complex art and I am very pleased that the wording was found in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that we can process this statement together. This timidity in choosing the words that began during this crisis, it seems to me, has changed considerably in the Western countries. When we look at the first days, we see that the Western countries were looking for the right and beautiful words and moved the Comas while the enemy moved its troops. I have a question. Is it clear to you whether there will also be no-fly zone discussions in other parliaments, or whether we will be spokespersons in this context, just as we have been for a long time with regard to the Russians? So far, we were taken with a little skepticism. The situation has changed and we are right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U25	As I said last week, the Lithuanian Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a declaration on this matter. They have, it seems to me, a little more customary, precisely such public statements in the format of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the plenary level, this decision has not been taken at Seimas level. Any discussion? Well, let's say it's discussed in a way or another, whether it's the entire Western world, whether it's security experts or politicians, it's still being exchanged. Whether a particular Parliament has taken this decision, I will tell you, on the basis of the information that is known to me, that it is not, in a parliament of a third country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U26	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U27	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If this no-fly zone cannot be established, what would NATO have as effective and equally effective alternatives? I am not a member of the National Defence Commission, I do not have NATO secret permission either, but when I talk to people, they ask if I could give an example of what we could do. If the assailant still has blood in his eyes, he doesn't slow down. How many casualties do you have to have, 500,000 mothers and children before NATO wakes up [and understands] that human life is irreparable? But what are the alternatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U28	Thank you. The question is that I have absolutely no reason to question Ukraine's own military planning and political will to protect its civilian population. For them, it is precisely the central request that President Zelenskiy repeated this morning, namely the issue of a no-fly zone. Now, the question is that, while this is not an alternative to this, it is certainly important that, when we talk about airspace protection, of course, these are weapons systems, they are aircraft or they are ground-based rocket systems that enable airspace to be protected. On this, too, we have seen a serious, intense and dramatic debate between the Western countries that have these weapons systems at their disposal, under what circumstances and how it is considered possible to provide assistance to Ukraine. Our message and the path of this appeal is precisely that Ukraine must be given comprehensive assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U29	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U30	Good manager! Honourable waitress! I ask you, if there was a debate in the Commission on this important appeal, how did you feel? Were all the parties represented in the Riigikogu jointly supporting this appeal, or was writing a different line or something else under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U31	No, I think it was in a very good spirit. The representatives of all the political groups, when we had a drafting group, contributed to this text. The initial address has retained its message and a number of other questions have also come in, including, for example, Marko Mihkelson's proposal to add one more call. Since these decisions are here in real time, concerning the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a possible decision on the exclusion of Russia and a possible decision of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, this would be such a topical issue. I think the attitude is in this Chamber, but also in other rooms where we have discussed this appeal, it has been unambiguous.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U32	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U33	Good manager! Dear waitress, Turkey must have waited a dozen years or more for its candidate status. This has gone faster in the case of Ukraine. But when do you think a [member] of Ukraine can become? Turkey has been waiting for more than 40 years to do so. When could Ukraine actually become a country of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U34	That is, of course, the logic of the Treaty on European Union that Ukraine must be in a situation where it complies with these principles, which are essential for membership of the European Union. There are issues of the legal regime as well as political rules and their fulfilment as criteria. The status of a candidate in itself is, in fact, a political signal. This signal has indeed, as you pointed out, been given to different countries in the past, [there are countries] with which this debate has remained very long-standing. Certainly our interest and hope is that this war will end with the victory of Ukraine, the rebuilding of Ukraine will begin. And certainly, integration with the European Union is part of this, once the Ukrainian people have confirmed this will. Surely we are ready to support this in all its ways. For full membership status, I think, no date or number given is realistic in this situation. Of course, in Ukraine's current situation, when the struggle is on life and death, whether the country remains, whether the nation remains as a political unit, no one has time to deal with the problems of harmonising European Union law and issues of a very technological nature that are necessary purely for the country to be able to realise full membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U35	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, last week when we went to Ukraine, it became clear that the Ukrainians said: first they need a no-fly zone, then another no-fly zone and once again a no-fly zone. But after that, [information] came that, of course, they also need extensive humanitarian aid, as well as medicines, food and everything else needed to resist the aggressor. Here comes my question. If this no-fly zone is not now established in the short term, could it still lead to a humanitarian disaster in the most immediate sense? Let us recall, at least, that a flight-lease system was set up in Berlin in its time, which ensured continuous supply. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What do you feel like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U37	Yeah. I think we all share this feeling in this Chamber, or we all share this feeling that this is a very, very worrying situation. The humanitarian disaster has actually already arrived. We're reading about the people, the civilians, who are dying in surrounded cities, who have been deprived of all the things they need to live. The situation will undoubtedly become much more complicated, to put it mildly, when, hypothetically, from the land territory of Belarus, for example, the units are moving to Western Ukraine to cut off Ukraine's connections, humanitarian corridors and also the corridors of aid deliveries towards the west. There's no way that's out of the question. At present, Russia is not hindered by any diplomatic or other considerations, but only by military considerations that hold it back. Certainly, when we are talking about establishing a possible no-fly zone, what rules, to what extent, according to what principles? The Speaker of Ukraine referred specifically to 15 nuclear reactors in Ukraine's territory, he highlighted this example to us in addition to the need to protect cities. These are already military planning issues that must be addressed seriously by those countries which are politically prepared to establish this no-fly zone in cooperation. But unfortunately, the situation is that the civilian population is getting worse every day. The courage of Ukrainian soldiers to hold the front and stand in the defence of the Ukrainian people must in no way dispel the knowledge that the disaster situation is growing in real time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U38	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! Now we move on to the presentation of the commission and that is by Marko Mihkelson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U39	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Management Board of the Riigikogu took members of the Riigikogu to the appeal procedure, including that submitted on 28 February, on 1 March, and fixed the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 7 March at 15.00. No amendments were tabled by the political groups or committees of the Riigikogu within this deadline. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was the subject of the draft, held its hearings on 7, 8 and 10 March on the individual issues which have been mentioned in this referral. At first, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs discussed the state of play, the future, possible additional restrictions and steps. The most important issues raised at Commission meetings in these discussions were both the trade embargo and the details of the introduction of a no-fly zone. Since the representatives of the Fatherland and the EKRE Group had initiated the appeal, in order to achieve a broader consensus here in the Riigikogu, as we usually do when making such international statements in order to avoid political populism, the initiators, on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, agreed to amend and rewrite the text in a way that later found consensus support in the committee. At its meeting on 10 March (consensus), the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 541 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, as amended, including 14 March, and to appoint the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee at first reading as the representative of the leading committee. The Commission also confirmed (consensus) the text of the draft referral as amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U40	First, Aivar Chef asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Perhaps you will explain in a few words what improvements or changes the Commission introduced into this appeal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U42	Yes, thank you for that question. If you look, the whole text has been rewritten. It has been rewritten in a way that responds better, as did Priit Sibul before, to the diplomatic language that we would expect today, including in Parliament's political statement. Among other things, the issues of the no-fly zone, or some other issues concerning the trade embargo or the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe right now, were missing from the original text. But, in fact, the question is, as I emphasised, and it has also been repeatedly emphasised in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to all the good members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who represent all the political groups, that, in situations where we are today, it is extremely important that if Parliament makes a statement of intent, address or make a statement to express its [will], it would express the will of Parliament as a whole. This is also clearly understandable to our good friends in Kiev, who certainly look forward to this support. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is in constant contact with its colleagues, hopefully by next week we will be able to hold another joint meeting, a meeting with them. So it is certainly important not to focus on one or two specific issues in the sense of this appeal, but to look at how we can best ensure that the aggression is repressed from Ukraine and, on the other hand, our own security by keeping the unity of the West.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U43	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U44	Thank you very much. Good waitress! You are known in Estonia because you have always very warmly supported the new border agreement with Russia, which amends the border line agreed by the Tartu Peace Treaty, and you have assured us that with it we will gain more certainty and that there will be more. In the current situation, do you continue to support the conclusion of a new border agreement with Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U45	Thank you. Our former President, Lennart Meri, said that a system of agreements, defined by international law, that defines our position internationally, including what applies to the crossing of a state border, is extremely important. It is a pity that we have not ratified this border agreement today, for many reasons, above all because of Russia's actions. But today, unfortunately, this issue is not topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U46	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U47	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Marko! You have very long experience and will certainly be well aware of previous precedents for establishing no-fly zones. If you could also specify for the members of the Riigikogu, we will first address the United Nations countries, which UN countries could they be, which have both the capacity and the will to establish such a restricted area? And I am sure that you in the Commission discussed what this would look like more technically. However, if the Russian Federation decides not to recognise this decision and some of their warplanes still enter the area, what might follow it? What steps must be taken, then, to make it impossible or difficult to actually fly in this no-fly area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U48	Thank you. This was certainly one topic, one paragraph in the drafting of the whole text of this referral and in the discussions on it, which specifically concerned both the wording that is before your eyes and what is the substantive dimension of this wording. It is quite clear and understandable that no state alone, whether it is capable or not, has such a capacity in Estonia, after all, [it cannot be done]. But what is important and why has this appeal been made precisely, with emphasis on the United Nations Member States? As you know, weeks ago 141 UN Member States actually made a very clear declaration of intent or supported the knowledge that Russia is an aggressor state at war against the sovereign state of Ukraine, supporting the resolution of the General Assembly. Undoubtedly, the situation we are in today is completely unprecedented throughout the history of the United Nations. We do not even think that now we are going back in time to find some similar example of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Libya or Iraq, for example. No earlier example compares to this scale, to the tragedy that we are facing today. We don't really know what war it is at the end of the day, how big a war it is. I very much hope that this is not the war that, as many people are saying, can cross borders and affect our security as well. But today we must do everything that depends on us at this point in time, in particular, diplomatically to find this common ground, to at least raise this issue so that it is not ashamed afterwards. So that afterwards it would not be possible to stand before the Ukrainians and answer their question that if thousands, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands were killed, why didn't we do anything? This is the expression of will, where the United Nations Member States and others will hopefully be parties, from Estonia to the United States and many others. In fact, perhaps there are nuances here, Ukraine is a large country and it is very difficult to imagine that there could be something similar in the whole territory of the country. But even if we are talking about saving people in Mariupoli, when we are talking about humanitarian corridors, perhaps some kind of safe areas, as has been said in previous situations, although, as I said, the scale is completely different and is a whole new situation. So it is our moral duty today to talk about what steps the world could take to avoid mass civilian casualties in Ukraine. If we look at Russian propaganda fortunately for that we no longer have access to it in public today, then for example, how was described yesterday in one of Russia's major propaganda shows how the people who have fought against Russia in Ukraine should be treated, frankly, still bring the chills to the flesh. It shows German documentary footage of people being hanged and so on. In fact, there is a call for the destruction of a very large part of the Ukrainian population. And if we do not respond to this, at least with the steps that depend on us to raise the issue at diplomatic level, I think that we certainly have not contributed to the prevention of possible genocide.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U49	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U50	Good manager! Dear waitress, I think it's a very good text. And indeed, it takes a very clear position with regard to the no-fly zone, membership and expulsion from ENPA. I approve. But I wanted to ask you if you now advise your colleagues what is still possible for the Riigikogu to do. Indeed, at every dinner, we really explain to our foreign colleagues: no, we do not discriminate against the Western Balkans when we give Ukraine candidate status, and the introduction of a no-fly zone does not mean that we are responsible for World War III. All that stuff. Is there anything else we could do as a Riigikogu, something that goes beyond declarations or dinner conversations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U51	Thank you. If we look back at the last two months, it can be said that this is indeed the third declaration, the declaration of will with which the Riigikogu has come out on Ukraine this year alone. I'm saying we've given almost maximum. Of course you can always do more. But as far as this Chamber is concerned and these statements and this pending appeal are concerned, this is, firstly, reflected in our very deep experience of the threat that we have faced and what we are all seeing with our own eyes at the moment in Russia's activities, in very aggressive military criminal activity towards our neighbouring country. But certainly also when you communicate with your colleagues, and this communication is active, as you mentioned, good Riina, depends on all of us who have contacts and meetings. Because they're asking questions. I think that it is very important to take these steps now, both with regard to economic sanctions and with regard to Ukraine's all-sided assistance with arms and other support elements, to the point that there must be some solution at international level to save as many people as possible from the deliberate killings that Russia is organising in Ukraine. In the last 24 hours alone, the city of Mariupoli has been bombed with at least 25 air strikes. As of today, over 2,200 people have been officially killed, but these are only official records. In fact, we do not have a complete idea of what is really happening in this city the size of Tallinn. And in order to take these steps, the West must be united both at NATO level and at European Union level. At the same time, it is very important for us to bear in mind that Russia, when it started the war, has not only meant Ukraine. In fact, by triggering this war, he has wanted to continue to confuse the whole world order, both the security regime in Europe and the world order in general. He wants to confuse everything in such a way as to force the fundamental rules, fundamental principles and the UN Charter, and then he hopes to write a new right on the basis of his results. We must act in all directions as much as possible in order to prevent this from happening, because it also directly affects our security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U52	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U53	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President of the Commission. My question is that this statement really supports the wish expressed by the President of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Ambassador has confirmed this in Estonia that we want them to want immediate steps to be taken to establish a no-fly zone. I really share and support their concern for the mass civilian victims and indeed for ending the crimes that Russia is doing through its aggression. But I wonder if you'd be so kind as to explain exactly what it means to establish a no-fly zone. Does this also mean that Ukraine's own planes can no longer fly? Does this mean that we are all NATO countries at war? What exactly are the consequences and what dangers do you see, perhaps other NATO countries have also expressed and NATO itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U54	Yeah, thanks! As I answered the question of my good colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, we do not actually have a precedent today for this in the history of the United Nations, or let's say, the history of the last great war, since World War II, yes, on a smaller scale, against non-nuclear states, is such, or so to speak, against non-nuclear states, yes, in a military conflict there are no such no-fly zones, and that is what makes this whole situation very dramatic. We must certainly not allow ourselves to think of the slightest idea that there is an exclusive right in the world to kill, an exclusive right to carry out a mass genocide and it cannot be restricted. If we let it get into our heads, let's think about what's going to happen to our security. Yes, we are a NATO Member State. Yes, we are protected by Article 5, yes, the allies are doing a great deal, and obviously very much to ensure our security. But the threat to security is exactly the same threat that is currently at war to destroy the Ukrainian state, killing thousands of people just to achieve the idea of their great empire. And if we don't put a stop to it right there in Ukraine, this war could threaten the security of the entire continent, as it is actually threatening right now. For this reason, I believe that it is crucial, especially at the diplomatic level, not to avoid raising this issue at all. It may touch on very different steps, it may also affect why we do not see today the activities of the International Red Cross in Mariupoli, why we do not see Kharkiv, why we do not see Kiev. But because they don't dare go there because the Russians are killing them. After all, we have seen these evacuation corridors, as Russia says, yes, please very much, get moving, and then there will be cannonfire on the people. People are being killed in front of their homes now, just this morning, yet another footage of what has been done in Irpin. I wouldn't be able to stand by and say that, oh-oh, don't touch on this, because if we touch on this issue now, maybe we'll go to war with Russia. In my opinion, this political correctness will help and we need to talk very specifically about the issues that will actually guarantee our security one day. And there is also a need to say and also to avoid such speeches where we are talking, to see that we cannot do so, because then we would have a direct conflict with Russia. In my opinion, this is clearly the rhetoric that rather calls on Russia to continue its crimes. And as a result, I believe that the main point of mentioning this appeal and the no-fly zone included in this appeal is the call for diplomatic courage in action to save thousands, tens of thousands of people in Ukraine and possibly not only in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U55	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U56	Dear Riigikogu! Cute listeners! For the third week in a row, the brave Ukrainian army has been defending its country against the invasion of the Moskovite Empire of Violence. But the Ukrainians aren't just protecting their country. They protect Europe as a whole, especially those countries that Russia's bloodthirsty rulers have desired most throughout history. For the appetite of this despotic prison of nations east of us will not stop in the conquest of one country or another. It's just growing. This is a crystal clear proof of 1000 years of history. It is not right that a single nation is set on the front line to fight for a free Europe, to shed its blood for a free Europe, to die for a free Europe. The European Defence War must be a common fight between Europeans. Today, we cannot get behind international agreements, the European Union or NATO umbrella, as if only those countries that belong to an organisation are the only real European countries, as if only these countries deserve collective protection. Ukraine deserves collective protection, and there are countless reasons for this. The arms assistance of European countries to Ukraine must be much bolder and more effective. European sanctions on Russia must immediately cover absolutely all economic areas. But the most important thing is what the Ukrainians desperately ask for from day to day: a no-fly zone. The support of the Allied Air Force is a decisive factor in clearing Ukraine's skies from Russian planes, stopping the last attempts by the already entangled Russian army and allowing the Ukrainian army to go into a counterattack in order to exterminate the Occupants from all its territory, including Donbass and Crimea. The cowardice of the West on this issue is selfish, treacherous and shortsighted. If a no-fly area over Ukraine had been established even one day before the start of the Russian large-scale invasion, this invasion would not have taken place in this form. Then thousands of Ukrainian civilians and soldiers, as well as the Russians who were violently dragged into war, would be healthy Ukrainian cities, without destroying cultural values. Ukraine's war has led to an unprecedented humanitarian disaster. Estonia, too, has reached the limits of the reception capacity of war refugees in the first few weeks of the war. There is only one way to bring this humanitarian disaster to an end: the war must be stopped as soon as possible. Therefore, Ukraine must be given sufficient military support to be able to drive the foreign conqueror to its borders as quickly as possible. All surrenders are, of course, ruled out as if surrenders were ruled out even in the case of assault on us. NATO can't hide its head in the sand. NATO shares the co-responsibility for the defence of Ukraine. Why? Because it was precisely NATO that did not submit to Russia's demand that Ukraine never become a member of NATO. This was a central part of Russia's ultimatum. From this point on, we should regard Ukraine as a factual candidate country for NATO, although the roadmap has not yet been given to them. But NATO's credibility depends not only on how well the Alliance can protect its existing members, but also on the support given to those who have been victims of an unfair and brutal attack on their aspirations for NATO. The most useful water for the Kremlin mill is not Russian propaganda in the Western countries, but the fear of Russia by the Western leaders. Only Putin has hints to mention strategic weapons, and immediately inform Western leaders that they will not intervene in the Ukrainian war. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U57	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U58	Despite the fact that we are talking about defending a sovereign state, which itself calls on NATO countries to help, regardless of the Budapest Memorandum, which guaranteed the borders of Ukraine. You know what this panic is really about a nuclear threat? This means that Moscow can always shift gate posts in the future. Next time, in a nuclear threat, he can demand the removal of NATO's allies from the Baltics, then demilitarization and denacification of the Baltics, and so on. You can't do that! We know that Western leaders have almost always been timid and friendly to Russia, but we cannot afford it. If Ukraine falls, we'll be next. It is in contact with the Western countries that the Baltic States must make every effort to ensure that Ukraine's requests for assistance are heard. Our history obliges us not only to do so. Was it not bitter in our hearts for decades that we were left alone to fight, die in Estonia's forests or in Siberian prison camps, when the Western countries either did not understand the threat of communism enough or feared too much? Now, being formally made part of the Western countries through this same umbrella of the European Union and NATO, are we going to get behind them and watch Ukrainians die for us too, in front of the whole of Europe? Never! Ukraine, the only and true successor of the Grand Duchy of Kiev, is our Intermarium ally, our destiny mate in the joint fight against Moscow's imperialism. It is our duty to support each other so that our blue-black and blue-yellow alliance can be crowned with victory. Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U59	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Mikhail Lotman, please! [[Mikhail Lotman's asking for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U60	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My younger granddaughter, who goes to second grade, can't sleep peacefully at night. He doesn't dare sleep in his bed, he comes to his parents. And she is not the only Estonian child whose sleep is disturbed. Estonian children will not be awakened in the middle of the night by roaring sirens, deafening explosions of missiles and missiles. They don't have to hide in basements and subway stations. The children of Ukraine must do all this because one bunker vane decided that the Ukrainian cities should be bombarded at night in order to achieve the best psychological effect. The Ukrainians pray: "Close heaven for the Russian Air Force! " When we went to Lviv, all political and administrative figures kept saying that the announcement of a non - flight zone over Ukraine was the most important thing. The governor of the Lviv region gave us a large list of what Ukraine needs, but stressed that all this was third- or even fourth-grade compared to the closure of the sky. But there is also great opposition to the closure of the sky among Ukrainian friends. The causes are different, both military and political. Some Western politicians and experts claim that Ukraine can do perfectly without the introduction of a no-fly zone and that it would even be harmful to Ukraine. This patronizing attitude in style "We know better what you really need" is an insult to the Ukrainians. They know what they need, and they know what needs to be done. The White House speaker Jen Psaki said a few days ago that President Biden promised to respond to every action in Russia. Indeed, President Biden resolutely replied to the bombing of Mariupoli children's hospital and maternity home: he banned the import of caviar and vodka. Now the children of Ukraine can sleep peacefully. Why does Putin do everything he does? Why is he bombing civilian objects? Why would he save the Russians of Ukraine from the "Nazi regime" destroy Kharkiv, the largest Russian city outside Russia? Many politicians and commentators have claimed that Putin went crazy. This is no longer the person they've known for years. I think they're wrong. And much closer to the truth is the President of Finland Sauli Niinistö, who has met Putin several times and knows him perfectly. So, he said that Putin's mask fell and under it came out of his real face. And that's the face of the war. I'd add it's the face of a psychopath. Putin is a psychopath. He feeds on the suffering, the weakness, but above all on the fear. The only language a psychopath understands is the power and determination to use it. The U.S. Senator, an old - school conservative Mitt Romney, said on March 10th: "It feels like we're afraid of what Putin can do and what he might consider escalation. But it's time for him to get scared of what we can do." I imagine it's said that all of this could lead to World War III. I want to resolutely disprove it. On the contrary! We know how world wars begin. It's not like we're gonna start a world war and then we're gonna start a world war. World Wars start with a flying start. And if we're talking about World War II, when did it start? When the Germans took their troops to the Rhine, in violation of the Versailles agreement? When they took Elsassi and Lotring? Was it when the Munich Treaty came into existence in 1938? When the Molotov-Ribbentrop Treaty came into existence in 1939? In fact, World War could have been averted in 1940. But it wasn't prevented. What am I saying? Resolute action now can save us from the fact that in the future, if this future ever comes, it could be said that World War III started on 24 February 2022. If Putin can be defeated under Kiev, we do not have to stop him on Sinimäed Hills, under Tallinn, under Riga or under Warsaw. Today, the Ukrainians are also fighting for us, and we must not let them down. When we went to Lviv, a politician told us that they were afraid of two things: the death that comes from heaven, and the knife that friends could kick in our backs. There is currently action in the West for a number of politicians asking how to save Mr Putin's face. How could he end the war so it wouldn't be humiliating to him? I don't think we need to save Mr. Putin's face. He doesn't have a face. It can't be saved. If we're afraid of this escalation, then we need to know that Putin isn't afraid of it. Yesterday, a drone crashed in Zagreb. What do you mean, a drone? It's not the kind of little thing we fly. It was a 15 - metre - long flying machine that flew at speeds above 1,000 kilometers an hour, and it fell into the university's yard, and no one miraculously was injured. But this is a clear sign of what we always hear from Russian propaganda and politicians, that the war does not have to end on the Ukrainian border, we are going on. The Ukrainians are well aware of our opportunities, they are grateful to us, and they know that Estonia cannot accept millions of refugees. Estonia's support resources are not infinite. They're grateful for what we're doing. However, Estonia has a very important resource: Estonia is a member of NATO and the European Union. The Ukrainians are primarily asking us to be their spokespersons. And today's resolution is perhaps one of the first important steps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U61	On behalf of the Socialists, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! My deep condolences to all the people of Ukraine for the losses they have suffered. President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation has attacked a free Ukrainian state and is sowing death, killing thousands of people in cold blood. It's brutal and cruel. The world must never forget that. It must be punished. The trigger of war and the aggressor must be judged fairly and harshly. The Ukrainians are fighting for our common values. They are fighting for the principles of a free democratic world, without which there would not be a state of Estonia, the European Union, a world order we love based on rules. It is our duty to do everything in our power, and perhaps more, to support Ukraine. Comprehensive assistance in the form of protective equipment, weapons, medicines and food is critical. We must do everything we can to protect civilians and help war refugees. We need to find one last way to dry out the source where the aggressor draws resources. Yeah, there's risks for us too. And I'm sure there's a price to pay. War has a price, we want it or we don't. But no matter how hard the price of sanctions for our economy is, it is not comparable to the price paid by the Ukrainians who, at the cost of their lives, defend our common value zone. The hope that this war will soon end and that we will never return must be clearly stated. The opportunity for Ukraine to move rapidly to the European Union as a candidate country, as well as the roadmap to NATO, needs our full support. The Social Democrats support this approach. Long live the free democratic world! Long live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U63	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We don't really need to convince each other around here most of the time. The Reform Party has already been unanimous in previous similar votes and it is more a question of how often we make similar statements on behalf of the Riigikogu and whether they are all very convincing. Just making a loud voice is not enough, although there is also an effort in this direction here today. One recommendation would, of course, be that these statements should be coordinated from the very beginning by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as presented by two political parties, they are still problematic, because this is a consensus area called foreign policy, at least we should strive for it. They are still problematic, presented by two political parties, as this is a consensus area called foreign policy. Fortunately, this text is one that I think no one can abstain from voting for. There is still a need to prove itself today, but if there are few votes, then to explain it to someone, it is because they did not vote on the previous occasions. Or they may have told us about Plan B, Russia as a civilization and so on. These people should definitely be in full formation today. But, of course, let those present vote. The Reform Party thinks, as the previous speakers have said here, that there must be stronger sanctions. By giving more effective arms assistance to Ukraine, Russia still needs to be thrown to where it is now spiritually belonging, that is to say, the last millennium. The economic potential must be exhausted in Russia, and it must be whipped as much as possible by military means. We think, as the previous speaker said here, that some complaints about price increases or things are not appropriate. That's the price of freedom, we have to pay. The world is not what we were hoping for, and it must be paid for by everyone. There's no way to compensate yourself for that. That's freedom. This price is not comparable to what the Ukrainians pay. Think about it before you come back with a price issue. I hope that no one will come to complain about the price than the great suffering. There's much worse suffering. Perhaps such speeches cannot quite unite, let us say, with a condescending attitude towards western cooperation. Yes, there are no tougher steps behind Estonia, but the different history of other countries must also be taken into account. We heard an interesting fact today. I don't think it's a secret, but the military of a superpower didn't know there was a war in Ukraine. Here's the reality. We also need to look at the world through the eyes of taxpayers and voters from other countries, especially the eyes of voters. We're feeling this thing better. No wonder things are slowing down if we want to. But let us admit that this cooperation has been unprecedentedly good in the West. Nobody romanticizes Putin anymore. Yeah, let's recall those previous statements when I referred to them. By the way, in January, a large portion of people were largely matched by those who were unable to condemn the deportation, saying that they did not like this statement. There was an article on that. In February, a new initiative came again, I believe it was on the road and these people disappeared. That's what they have the most to prove. And the rumor that somehow this war had not yet begun at that point was not sincere. The war began in 2014. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U65	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U66	The war began in 2014. That day, it must have been February 23rd, when I'm calculating it by heart, the reinforcements had marched in, and that was a good enough argument. And before that, 21. After all, [February] these structures, the "national" structures around Luhanski and Donetsk were recognized. There couldn't be any more doubt. I know that some people have sincerely regretted not voting. Now it's time to show it really and be there. For the second time, I think the third-to-one time, I mean, you can't stay out of it anymore. And above all, from them, I hope, the voice will come. One more thing. We discussed here that, apart from the fact that these statements could be considered next time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, inevitably their value will not be the same when they come so often. Yes, there are different situations. The first time was only Ukraine's siege and hybrid war, including a year on energy, the second time was, let's assume that, yes, cannonsuld was not yet open to this free area or a flight light, and then let's say that the third time is a slightly different statement from its character. Now the set is quite together. But what caused us to argue in this statement was precisely this no-fly zone. In fact, we in the group do not know exactly what that means. We do not really know whether Ukrainian drones can fly, whether Ukrainian planes can fly. They'd rather not. So if we use those words very loudly, maybe we can't get the best result. Could have taken this risk down and put it in a different way. We actually want the Russians not to fly or bomb. All of this can be said without terms whose content is uncertain or is different than the initiators think. But, yes, we call on everyone to vote in favour once again, especially those who have spoken out of their minds about Russia, to make statements of support in different ways, and those who have not voted on previous times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U67	On behalf of the central fraction of Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, It is very difficult for you who have spoken on behalf of your group to add anything else. All the thoughts were right. I'm only taking one advantage of what I have. This is my longer life experience, I mean years of age. At this point, I am uncompetitively the oldest member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. And that is why I remember quite well situations that are not comparable to where the world and Europe are today. And yet. I remember pretty well, I was 10 years old when there was a Hungarian revolution. The year was 1956. I remember very well the very great possibility of a nuclear war during the Cuban missile crisis. I think the world has never been closer to a devastating war than it was these days. And you know very well what it ended with. Although John Kennedy has later said that many - many of his generals thought that we should attack and use nuclear weapons. Of course, I remember the events of Czechoslovakia in 1968, and you also remember the events of Czechoslovakia. And so on and so forth. However, there is one very important difference in this situation. I remember speaking of these crises as a journalist, I have made reports of Riga after the bloodshed there, from Vilnius after the events of the TV tower, I was also in Tbilisi on the first plane that went from Tallinn to Tbilisi after these events, so I have some experience. So, what's the difference? There is always an interest in such events and such crises. It's always known as a co-worker. There's always fear. Fathers-mothers told their children some, some didn't. But today, this situation has also created a completely extraordinary situation for Estonia. We all, each of us, would like to do something, even very small, but something very specific. That is why I understand perfectly the colleagues who have made this address text and are waiting for signatures from the rest of my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope we all sign this because this is our chance to do something. And, of course, I hope that this statement will also be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U69	We're done negotiating. There are no amendments to this draft, as you have heard from the presentations. So we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Riigikogu! I will put to the vote before you the appeal of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia to the parliaments of the European Union and NATO Member States and other countries, draft 541. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U70	The conversion is supported by 90 members of the Riigikogu and there are no respondents or impartial parties. The appeal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U71	We will go to the second item on the agenda today. Member of the Riigikogu Kert Kingo, Henn Põlleaasa, Siim Pohlak, Kalle Grünthali, Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Riho Breiveli, Paul Puustusmaa, Jaak Valge, Anti Polandmets, Rene Koka, Peeter Ernitsa, Merry Aarti, Leo Kunnase, Alar Lanemani, Reuben Kaalepi and Martin Helme submitted an inquiry into the European Union 2015. The 2017 migration plan and the European Commission's 2017 call for international protection for foreigners in Estonia (No 113). As the representative of the interviewees, please address Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear technical staff! This enquiry concerns the European Union's 2015. The annual migration plan for 2017 and the subsistence of persons admitted to Estonia on the basis of the European Commission's call for 2017. I define that resettlement is the admission of a person who has received international protection to Estonia from a third country and relocation is the admission of a person who has received international protection to Estonia from another Member State of the European Union. The total number of persons to whom this question relates is 213. Of these 181 come from Syria, 24 from Iraq, 6 from Eritrea and 2 from Yemen. They've come from other countries. The ones I read now are their countries of origin. The inquiry has been made on 26 January, which means that we presented it before the war, so it has not been pushed by the wave of Ukrainian refugees. Although the questioning mainly concerns persons who, unlike the Ukrainian refugees, do not come from the same cultural space as us, their ability in Estonia is, however, an extremely valuable experience in shaping the policy of all refugees. Before preparing the inquiry, I had a correspondence with the honorable Minister of the Interior. It turned out that the 213 persons concerned have a valid temporary or long-term residence permit valid in Estonia for 106 persons and one person has also acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. It can therefore be concluded, on the basis of the addition-dissolving process, that 106 displaced and relocated persons no longer hold a valid residence permit in Estonia. I also asked about language skills in this correspondence, and the Minister of the Interior replied about all persons who received international protection, which means that he also added those who have arrived in Estonia under regular migration arrangements. It turned out that only 11 of these 504 persons have acquired Estonian language skills at B1 level and are currently 69 participants in language learning. Although, according to the Foreigner's Act on Granting International Protection, these persons are obliged to attend language training from the age of 18 to the age of old age and, if the required level of language proficiency has not been achieved, the sums spent on language training may be recovered. And now these are the questions that pushed the data. As our questioners, we wanted to know where those persons who no longer have a residence permit in Estonia live. Why have they left Estonia? How can the results of language learning be assessed? How many people work in Estonia? Have they committed crimes or misdemeanors? I would point out that we focused on a relatively small segment of beneficiaries of international protection, namely relocated and displaced persons, who should, however, be the best-controlled and selected of all those beneficiaries of international protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U73	Thank you very much. I now ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kristian Jaani, who responds to an inquiry, bearing the number 113. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu, members of the hall! Thank you for your questioning. In view of the events that have taken place in recent weeks, the issue of foreigners with international protection needs certainly deserves special attention. I also congratulate Jaak Valge, who has really addressed the subject in written questions sent at the end of last year and in January this year. Indeed, we had a longer correspondence with each other. So it's really good that it's been paid attention. For the sake of clarity, I will read out the questions raised in the inquiry and then give the answers. I have grouped questions in one block with similar questions, and I will also give answers to several questions at once. The first three questions, and then there will be the answer to these three in one block. The first question: "Where do the 107 relocated and displaced persons no longer hold a valid residence permit for Estonia live? " The second question: " For what reason have these 107 relocated and displaced persons left Estonia? "Three questions: "If we do not have data on the current location and activities of persons who have received international protection from Estonia on the basis of the European Union's migration plan and the European Commission's call of 2017, will the Republic of Estonia take responsibility if any of these persons prove to be linked to terrorism or any other form of crime on the territory of another European Union country?" I will answer all these questions at once. The practical output of living in Estonia with international protection status is a temporary residence permit. A person with refugee status shall be granted a temporary residence permit with a period of validity of three years. It may be extended for a period of three years. The holder of subsidiary protection shall be granted a temporary residence permit with a period of validity of one year and may be renewed for two years. All third-country nationals residing in the European Union on the basis of a temporary residence permit shall enjoy the same rights and obligations when moving within the European Union. This means that a foreigner can move freely within the European Union and stay in another European Union country for 90 days in 180 days at a time. A third-country national holding a temporary residence permit shall have the possibility, within the framework of the right of free movement, to move permanently at any time on the basis of a residence permit to another Member State, for example on the basis of family migration or in connection with finding employment in another Member State. If an alien stays longer in another Member State and does not apply for a new permit, he or she infringes the regime of the country in which he or she stays longer without authorisation. Aliens with a temporary residence permit are obliged to extend their residence permit in good time. If a foreigner does not do so, the residence permit ends. As the residence permit is for a limited period and people have the right to move freely, it is not possible to provide the exact reasons for taking up or returning to other Member States. For the same reason, there is no possibility of providing data to which people who have left Estonia have moved. If a third-country national residing in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit, including a resettled or relocated alien, commits a criminal offence in another Member State, he or she shall be held liable under the legislation of that Member State. This principle of penal law applies to both citizens and foreigners, and no state can be held responsible for the guilty conduct of an individual. However, an offence committed both in Estonia and in another country can be taken into account when granting and extending international protection and residence permit. If a person is dangerous to the security of Estonia or to public policy, his or her residence permit will not be extended and no new residence permit will be granted. Questions four and five. First of all, the fourth one: "Your answers on language skills revealed that 11 out of 504 persons in Estonia who received international protection have acquired B1 level, 4 people have passed B1 level, but have not yet passed the test and currently 69 people are participating in language learning. How do you assess the results of language learning and motivations of people who have received international protection in Estonia? " And the second question is answered immediately, asking the fifth question: " You did not answer the question about the language skills of relocated and displaced persons. I would continue to ask for information on how many relocated and displaced persons have acquired the Estonian language at different levels?" Although the field of adaptation and integration of foreigners, including language learning, is in the domain of the Ministry of Culture, we tried to answer the above-mentioned written questions about language learning, based on the information provided by the Ministry of Culture. I can also note that the data of the Ministry of Culture on language learning reflect language learning for adults, but an important part of beneficiaries of international protection are children who learn the language at school and are therefore not reflected in the data of studying the Estonian language. For adults, capacity is variable as for all other foreigners. It depends on age, health, abilities and past experience in life. There are those who learn the language within a few months, but there are also those who do not learn it even for a long time. I'll give you an example of real life. For example, a person who worked as a school teacher, who started working as a salesman, was able to speak Estonian at a very good level in two months, while a mother who raises young children at home cannot go to language training immediately and therefore takes more time to learn the language. The Police and Border Guard Board shall direct all beneficiaries of international protection, including displaced and relocated adult people, to the adaptation programme and language learning. The Tartu Adult Education Centre offers education in Estonian for adults who are beneficiaries of international protection. It is offered for up to 700 academic hours, including 300 academic hours to achieve A2 levels and 400 additional academic hours to achieve B1. It is not possible to distinguish between those who arrive or are resettled or who arrive in the context of relocation from the data of the learners themselves. Question 6: "You did not answer the question about the employment of relocated and displaced persons. Please provide information on how many relocated and displaced persons work in Estonia?" Here, once again, for the sake of clarity, I must point out that the answer to the written question remained fleeting because the employment sector is under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As in the case of statistics on participation in a language course, it is not possible to distinguish from employment-related data persons who have entered regular migration and those who have received international protection in the context of relocation or resettlement. Only all beneficiaries of international protection who live in Estonia can be represented. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board on 1 October last year, 80 of them worked full-time and did not work for 87. Since 2015, 220 beneficiaries of international protection have been registered as unemployed, of whom 52 were registered as at 5 January. 102 of the 168 clients who left the account have gone into employment. A total of 146 beneficiaries of international protection have used the services, including 31 services specifically intended for the target group. Thus, more than half of the beneficiaries of international protection are in full-time employment. I would also like to remind you that the other side also includes, for example, those who are raising children of three years alone, those who are unable to work because of illness or trauma, as well as those who work part-time. There are, of course, those who do not find work for a long time because skills do not match the job offer available or there are other reasons. Question 7: "Please provide information on how many relocated and displaced persons in Estonia have been suspected of a crime, accused of a crime or convicted of a crime? What crimes have they been convicted of? How many have been punished for wrongdoing? " Again, in answering this question, I refer to previous answers when I have explained that we cannot today distinguish the statistics of people arriving in Estonia on the basis of a migration plan from those who have reached Estonia on the basis of regular migration. If we do the handicrafts, we'll get some of the data. I'll get them right here. According to the PBGB, ten people under the migration plan have committed misdemeanours. These are traffic offences. Seven people have committed crimes. This is about theft and physical abuse. The perpetrators of both wrongdoing and crime have been held accountable. A little context. Since 2000, 63 out of 601 people, including 10 people who have entered the country under the migration scheme, have been subject to international protection, mostly traffic offences, and 29 people, including seven people who have come under the migration scheme, have committed a crime, either against theft or against violence, including family members. I will also bring out here the general statistics on all offences and offences, based on the data of the PBGB, during the period under consideration. Just to illustrate, an average of 119000 to 120000 offences are committed in Estonia per year. Most of them, 78% are traffic offences, and they are, in turn, misdemeanours. Just to give the context of how many offences have been committed in Estonia during the year. Question 8: "Do you agree, on the basis of the information already provided above, that the resettlement and relocation of persons to Estonia under the European Union Migration Plan and the European Commission's call for 2017 has failed completely? " And the ninth question immediately ran out. "If you agree that the resettlement and relocation of persons to Estonia on the basis of the European Union's migration plan and the call of the European Commission in 2017 has completely failed, what steps have the Government of the Republic of Estonia taken in the institutions of the European Union to make this situation aware and to prevent the implementation of plans that have already failed in the future?" Saving people's lives, fulfilling our international commitment and showing solidarity in the European Union cannot be considered a failure. Based on the above data, it cannot be accepted that the relocation and relocation of persons have been completely unsuccessful. Estonia has shown itself to be a constructive and solidarity-based country with respect for European Union legislation and agreements. There is always an opportunity to improve things, to channel more resources into language learning, adaptation programmes, prevention, but on the basis of the above data, we certainly have not managed badly. As a small country, we are good partners in the European Union and NATO, and if Estonia is under migratory pressure, we can therefore count on the unity of the European Union and the help of other Member States. Thank you for listening. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U75	Minister, thank you very much. You have questions too. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U76	Thank you, manager. I did not understand from your answer why it is not possible to distinguish between data on persons who have received international protection under the migration plan and data on persons who have received international protection on the basis of traditional migration. We have so many registers, we have so many statistics and data. How is it still so impossible to distinguish between a few hundred people's data?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U77	Thank you for your question. That's because they're being dealt with as a whole. All beneficiaries of international protection, for example, who have come to Estonia a little over 500 since 2015, are statistically all together. It just doesn't distinguish them. There is no specific sign in the databases for those who have come from the perspective of a migration plan with relocation or resettlement, or who have come in the course of day-to-day migration and then made an application for international protection on the ground. It is simply not collected separately in this form. It is probably possible to do this as a handicraft and probably a very large amount of human working hours could be used to track down this data, but I think it would be impractical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U78	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I expect people who have committed crimes to lose their residence permit. But I'm asking you how many cases there are if the residence permit hasn't been extended and what happens to these people. What is the procedure for sending them out of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U80	Thank you for your question. The procedure itself is very simple. If such a person exists who is convicted and has a residence permit, then the judgment can also immediately treat it as part of the judgment is that a person is expelled from the country. And if there's a safe country where this person can be expelled, he's basically sent out right now. If they do not send out immediately, there is a situation where a person is found guilty and is sentenced to imprisonment in a detention facility. If a person is released from a detention facility and his/her residence permit is not continued to be extended, but his/her expulsion process is under way, he/she can expect this time again at the detention centre in Soodevahe village. So that's the process. I don't know numerically, I'd have to find out the statistics for that. But the number of people we send out in a year or, say, on average a year is about 91%. There are so many who will be expelled from us and who have been ordered to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U81	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You see, according to the law on granting international protection to an alien, 18-year-olds who are able to work must, until their retirement age, participate in Estonian language studies. And beneficiaries of international protection living in Estonia may be required to recover the sums spent in order to provide language training if they have not completed language proficiency levels A1 or A2 or B1 for one or two years according to different statuses. Clearly, from the statistics you have provided, it is now clear that there are still and still more such individuals than those who would have acquired this level. My question is this: do you know whether these costs have been recovered from anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U83	Thank you for your question. Since the whole subject of language learning is in the domain of the Ministry of Culture, I will take this question with me and, if possible, I will find answers in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. So, if I understood correctly, have these expenses been recovered from these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U84	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since then, this inquiry was submitted, on 26 January this year, has now passed some time and the situation has changed dramatically. Maybe when we talk about the European Commission's 2015‐2017 migration plan, we are now in a situation where these migratory flows and all these things have changed so much. However, this does not reduce your duties, the duties of the Ministry. That's where the question comes from, which is a little bit connected with the fact that migration rates are now increasing considerably. We know that, in fact, there are also contradictions here that relate to Ukrainian and Russian nationality and the same political situation. Is the Ministry prepared for this situation or is it preparing to suppress or appease conflicts arising from these contradictions or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U86	Thank you for your question. Of course, in the event of such a threat, which is also a threat to public order, so to speak, measuring the temperature of society, the Ministry of the Interior and the institutions working in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior will also play an important role. So, of course, we really pay attention to this every day, be it social media activities, for example. We're kind of measuring the temperature of society in this view. I also mention that, in itself, the 2015 migration crisis in Europe and the current war refugee crisis here are, in both cases, refugees who must be assisted, but their movements are radically different. In one case, the EU or its partners entered illegally and there was a redistribution. But Ukrainian war refugees are moving, at least in the first stage, in itself completely legally within the European Union, around because there is a visa waiver for Ukrainian citizens. But once again, they are, of course, war refugees, who are also covered by the Temporary Protection Directive, which must also be applied to them. Once again, however, it is very right to draw attention and this must certainly be monitored. And everything that poses a threat to public order is indeed within the realm of the Ministry of the Interior. In the longer term, more broadly, when we are talking about integration and integration, this is, above all, the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U87	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As Paul said earlier, it has really changed dramatically. Maybe I'm gonna ask you a little bit because of a changed situation. Today, refugees from Ukraine and the same people are moving around in Europe, for whom this issue has been raised. Is there also the possibility that other refugees will now be mixed with the Ukrainian refugees, so that we will not share who will come where and what motives afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U89	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, so far we are the only country in the European Union that has temporarily restored border controls. We have done this precisely because it is one thing to help people who have escaped the war from Ukraine, but the other very important part of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior is also the security and knowledge that is coming to our country. That is why border controls have been restored at our internal borders against Latvia in order to identify such people even within the framework of temporary border controls. In the course of border controls, we have identified people who are not in the target group of temporary protection, or third-country nationals. They have been ordered to leave Estonia. They usually have a safe home country to turn to. And once again, that is precisely why this border control has been restored at our internal borders to deal with such potential risks and threats as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U90	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U91	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Directly, this question is not exactly according to this item on the agenda, but it attaches very strongly. Military refugees, the opening hours of the Police and Border Guard Board's reception centres and the reduction of their reception times per week. The town of Viljandi had 30 people in line at the door yesterday or last week, and we know it will take 45 minutes to serve one person. So the burden that now comes with the war refugees who are coming will create additional work capacity. Do you still find that this decision does not need to be reviewed? Maybe restore the appointment a week as it was before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U92	Thank you for your question. First of all, why did the so-called temporary protection form such a short-term order? This was related to the fact that the time could be applied through the booking system and the reality was that although one person booked an appointment, in reality this one person took along his entire family. Perhaps a separate appointment should have been made for each person in the booking system, but one person made an appointment, as only for himself, but more people arrived. This one-day process therefore really went further. The decisions that have now been taken and are about to be implemented are: service halls will also be open on the weekend so that applications for temporary protection can be processed specifically. In working days, we will be open until 20 o'clock in the near future, and the evening time would be directed specifically at those who apply for temporary protection. Today, 3000 people have booked the Circa through the booking system, and decisions have been made about 300. The next step is that we want to take the process to the border, which is to make it as simple as possible, so that, when we enter Ikla, we can also do the procedure relating to the temporary protection procedure. In addition, there are two mobile units created by the PBGB. The task of these temporary or, say, mobile teams is to go to larger accommodation centres and also to work there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U93	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U94	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask about language studies and language skills. During this period, 504 people in Estonia have received international protection and only 11 of them have acquired a B1 level, 69 are still studying. You have some kind of experience with this small number of people, don't you think, how this language learning has gone and what capacity we have as a country? If we come to this day, maybe in the light of this experience, you can give us some of that kind of identification for people who are many, this number is very large. How do you assess the language learning outcomes of these people, the arrivals, and the motivations for language learning in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U95	Thank you for your question. I would be happy to reply, but I think the experts from the Ministry of Culture are better able to evaluate it here, because this particular area is to organise the Ministry of Culture. Like I said before, I'm sure it'll be better. Surely resources can be better directed towards language learning, precisely with the aim of making it even more effective. If we are now specifically talking about the current situation in the view of war refugees, I think it is positive in itself that if we look at children purely, we can see that today 60 children have already reached school and more than half of them are in Estonian-language education or immersion. So in a very short time. The numbers are small, but it's all been happening in a few days. I think it is very positive, although we are really only talking about children here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U96	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, why are you lying about restoring control on the southern border? In Valga city, only three former border crossing points on the road, the first, second and third are checked, but the side roads, all the alleys are unchecked from Valga city to Pärnu and Võru. The side roads that come are all empty, there's no control. I checked them myself. There's no point in driving people crazy around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U98	Thanks for the question or the reply. I will correct you, not only Valga one, two and three, but also Ikla. These are border crossing points where controls have been restored, purely on the basis of a risk assessment by the PBGB. There are larger flows through these border crossings. There has indeed been a spot check on the forest crossings that you touched, but we have not identified anyone who would be in the target group that we should check on the border, so that these buses have not entered Estonia on the forest crossings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U99	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I just wanted to ask you a little bit about how, unlike that last wave, we're still ready today. If I've calculated on fingers like this, in terms of proportions, given the population, we already have more war refugees than we do in Poland. If we had previously been told that we were able to provide shelter for 10,000 people, then today this figure has already been almost doubled. And if our policemen used to go to Turkey, Greece and Italy, today, civilians are going to their cars. The refugee aid sends dozens and dozens of buses to the border, and a vast number of people are brought in completely uncontrollable. Do you think it's sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U101	Thank you for your question. I cannot accept that this is uncontrollable in the eyes of individuals. As I said, all people cross the border in Ikla or Valga, one-two-three, mostly Ikla. And all these people can be controlled there. If we look at how many people come through close or familiar family members, i.e. we assume that they usually come by car to bring them there, the ratio is about 50:50. In passenger cars, about 50% of these people are coming here today from Poland or Lithuania. The remaining 50% will indeed come with buses organised by the Social Insurance Board and, as you mentioned, will also be partnered with the Refugee Council. But this is not an uncontrollable process in the view of individuals, because these people are controlled at the border and they are recorded. Of course, to infinity [they cannot be accepted], somewhere there is a limit, I agree with that. But the second thing that matters is that the war refugees coming from Ukraine are here today, in particular, the target group of the Temporary Protection Directive. The goal is, however, that these people return to their home country as soon as possible, as many as they can. That's the goal. This also includes the name "temporary protection" for people who can be in a safe place, but they can still return. So once again, the goal is to help as many people as possible. There's a line somewhere, I agree with that. But the goal is also that these people return to their home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U103	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I heard you say the Social Insurance Board has ordered these trips. I have just been in correspondence with the head of the refugee service, Eero Janson, and he wrote to me a moment ago: "We have financed the entire evacuation from our own resources. The state of the evacuation facility through us is not... " Who is speaking the right thing now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U104	I think you should call here a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs who can answer specifically how this logistics is structured. Refugee aid has been a cooperation partner for the Social Insurance Board. I assure you, there will be cooperation. But there is no way I can say or comment on how refugee aid has planned these activities in the initial phase of the activities. There have been a lot of donations here, as has the media. We know very well that quite large sums of money have been donated, both private individuals and entrepreneurs have donated. Entrepreneurs have also given buses for donations, so this Estonian unity in helping people fleeing the war from Ukraine has been very great.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U105	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and request the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Valge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U106	One more minute or a half, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U107	Got it. Please! One more minute. That'll be six minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Well, the European Union's refugee policy has, as we know, been heavily overshadowed or, it can be said, even strongly shaped by a left-liberal ideology whose primary aim seems to be the weakening of nation states. And this ideology has been promised, I would emphasise here, unlike the current Ukrainian refugees, once again: unlike the current Ukrainian refugees, as refugees or, at least, as applicants for refugee status, as persons who are clearly not at risk in their home country and who could rather be regarded as adventurers or as economic migrants. This European Union refugee policy has led to a sad result that there is no real help for those in need, there has also been no help for the countries from which migrants come, and the countries to which they have taken up have taken a unnecessary burden. The special report of the European Court of Auditors, which was published last September, illustrates this situation very well. This is not some right-wing fantasy, it is a special report from the European Court of Auditors. It turns out that this return system in the European Union is completely ineffective, even caricature. And as stated in this special report, its inefficiencies stimulate illegal migration. Since 2008, an average of 500000 foreigners have been ordered to leave the European Union since they entered the Union or stayed there without authorisation. However, only a third of them have actually returned to a third country and, outside the European continent, in fact, the return rate is less than 20%. So 20% means that only one person from five non-European countries who has been ordered to leave the European Union actually does so. The rest remained illegally in the European Union. And we're probably imagining what illegals can do here. Unfortunately, among them, it would be difficult to believe that there are not those who were taken into Estonia on the basis of a migration plan and a call from the European Commission, and whose location we do not have any data on. It is true that we do not have Ukrainian refugees at the moment, but I will make a few brief comments on this too. First of all, I think, or we think, that we should not accept men aged 18 to 60 as refugees, those who were banned from leaving the country by Ukrainian President Volodymõr Zelenskyy. If we do this, we will actually damage Ukraine's defence capacity and encourage a sense of defetism, or surrender. And as a historian, I repeat and say that the parallel with the refugees of Estonia in 1944 is in no way valid here. Ukraine currently exists de facto and de jure and is fighting for its existence, unlike in the autumn of 1944, when we did not have our own army or hope for a totalitarian superpower, even though our brave men tried to do so. If the current situation in Ukraine is similar to anything in Estonia's history, then in fact it was 1919 when we fought against Soviet Russia. And it would have been rather strange for our leaders back then if Finland, for example, had come here with its boats and dragged our people's troops to Finland for farm work and from here with us, wouldn't it? Okay. Secondly, we should take this into account that these people want to return to their homes as soon as possible, unlike those who arrived here under the migration plan. I doubt that education in Estonian is necessary for them, at least for the time being, and whether the distribution of students to Estonian schools is appropriate, because these young people in Ukraine are already frustrated and this frustration is clearly getting worse in a foreign environment. These students better be together. That way, they'd feel the shoulder. And thirdly, if any of these women who have arrived in Estonia really want to go to work in Estonia, this is of course a good thing, but we should make sure that their helpless situation and ignorance are not exploited and that they are not simply treated as cheap labour here in Estonia. Thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U109	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U110	How much did it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U111	Oh, you've got another 40 seconds of free time, so time was very good. There's no more calls if there's no more. But we do. And I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Peter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U112	Good manager! Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I wasn't planning on coming here, but the honourable Minister of the Interior made a statement that the Social Security Office had ordered them here. It slipped out. At the same time, I have been in correspondence with the head of the refugee service for the third or fourth day, and just a moment ago, a letter came in where the head of the refugee service claims that they have not received a cent from the state, all that one and a half million, I think, on their account, is from private individuals. And that every day those six-seven buses, the big bus. And perhaps it is interesting for colleagues that this number has not gone out of nowhere, that refugee aid has now brought 4472 Ukrainians to Estonia with these buses. Well, that means six or seven buses every day in about 15 days. That's one side. But on the other hand, it is said that most of the Ukrainian people, who are familiar here, are close. And if you follow this, considering that our Ukrainian community is about 30,000 people, thank you to the esteemed Interior Minister for his quick answers some time ago! Then it is assumed that the number of war refugees, which could actually grow awfully large, may not increase so much. This is such a surprising conclusion, I do not know if it is true, but it is because if the community, this community with 30,000 people, no longer takes and does not order refugee aid in this case, who is organising it, I do not know with whose money and on whose request, then 100,000 will not come out. But maybe I'm wrong here. It's one of those important things. I'm coming to the Home Secretary's answers that he gave me a few days ago. I stress that since February 24, when the war began, 450 men aged 18 to 60 have arrived or been granted residence and work permits here. This means that these are the people that the President of Ukraine has said that they belong in Ukraine, not here on construction or anywhere else. I don't know how they came or if it's the beginning thing or if it's retarded right now. Next week or weekend, it would be interesting to see these data. But yet, 450 men of full vitality have come to us since the war began, probably now there are more. But the other side I'm taking again from the correspondence of the Minister of the Interior is that at the same time 715 men have left here. There may be more. It's not known if these are the men who went to the front. But in any case, such dynamics could be known to colleagues. With regard to this red line, in 2015, in 2016, when this last migration crisis was and mostly Syrians, Afghans and Iraqis arrived in Europe, and a million came to Germany one year. In my opinion, the government could look at, even as a percentage, in the case of Germany during the previous crisis. This percentage can be completely calculated, this is somewhere between one and one and a half percent. So I don't know what the government of the Republic is going to do to calculate this red line, but according to what I've done last time, it could be about 30,000. But it is purely ax-kicked and based on Germany's 2015 and 2017 results. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But it does not take into account the already existing community at that time, Muslims and Turks and so on. So, power to the government! But this red line has to be pulled, it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U113	I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U114	All right, good guys, let's move on. Free mike. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please do. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Juske, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U115	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Austet Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! If you look at the way history has rapped Estonians, the real wonder is that we have managed to preserve our language. The language that is written today, the official language, the euro, the computer language. It's a very powerful story. But in the Republic of Estonia we have always appreciated the right of national minorities here to teach their native language, to receive part of their native language education. This right is very topical today. The children of the families of the refugees in Ukraine must not forget their beautiful mother tongue. It is equally important, however, that the Estonian language skills are integrated into our country and society. So today we urgently need additional money and a plan to teach the Estonian language to more than 7000 young people in Ukraine whose new temporary homeland Estonia is. Young people, as you know, learn a new language very quickly. So they can start studying with local youths in our regular schools, being a full-fledged part of our society. Adult education must not be forgotten either, so that the parents of these Ukrainian children can learn the Estonian language, be able to do even better on the Estonian labour market. And if these families of refugees can once return to their much-suffering homeland, by the way, they are looking forward to it, then we have thousands of good friends in Ukraine who speak Estonian. As stated at the beginning, we live in the full golden age of the Estonian language. The position of our beautiful mother tongue has never been so certain. But the small language is threatened every day by its dangers. They need to be known and their effects reduced. At the same time, every living language is constantly changing. When the language no longer develops, it will soon be just museum language, history. No other country's constitution has been enlisted in the obligation to hold the Estonian language throughout the ages. Today, we are thinking about how each of us, in our own way, can contribute to this goal so that our beautiful mother tongue can be spoken forever. Happy English Day to all, good Estonian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U116	Thank you for your congratulations. Happy English Day! And now I would like to ask the Riigikogu to speak to Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U117	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Although you are no longer here today, I would like to use a free microphone today to invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who are not yet members of the Defence League, to join the Defence League. There's no point in me giving you long lectures from a security situation. That's what we see every day. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the last year, our ranks, i.e. the ranks of the Defence League members of the Riigikogu, have become less than two people. Johannes Kert and Madis Milling, both founding members of the Defence League, have left us since 1990. I was honored to know them both. Now they are no longer among us. So what do we do? The line needs to be improved so it doesn't get thinner, and that's why I'm calling you. There can be many ways in the Defence League. First of all, it is possible to be either an active member or a supporter. Being a supporter is in no way a secondary or worse option. It is also clear that if a person is a member of the Riigikogu, he or she already has a national defence post and, at the same time, he or she cannot have a military post. I don't have a time of war position either. But no one will be in the Riigikogu forever. So those members who leave the Riigikogu again can take the post of wartime again. There are many ways to support the Defence League. In the case of members of the Riigikogu, a personal example and a moral aspect are of particular importance at the moment. How can we demand anything from others if we may not be prepared to do so ourselves? Now that we've been independent for 30 years, it's appropriate to ask [yourself these questions]. Perhaps many have had doubts because we live in a time of universal peace where war is no longer possible. Unfortunately, it is not I who have rejected it, that war is possible, but it is still the war between Russia and Belarus against Ukraine. This has taken place and it has shattered many of the beliefs that people may have sincerely believed in all these years. Now we live in the situation where we are. It is worth reviewing and reviewing your views so as not to raise the question: "But what have you done for the good of the country? " Everyone gives that answer. And having also consulted a good colleague, Alar Laneman, we have agreed that if the dignified members of the Riigikogu, who do not have recommendors, are required to join the Defence League, we will seriously consider whether to come as a reference if necessary. This, of course, regardless of political affiliation. Perhaps we are ready to recommend every good colleague we see as a future dignified member of the Defence League. Such a call to you today. And although you are not here today [very much], I sincerely hope that this [message] will reach you as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U118	Thank you very much for this serious appeal. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U119	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Ladies and gentlemen of the transfer! First of all, I wish you a happy English-language day. But I want to talk about tomorrow. Tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 March, the International Social Work Day will be celebrated. This day is celebrated annually as the third Tuesday in March. In the current difficult crises, such as the health crisis, the security crisis caused by Russia's aggression and war in Ukraine, and the great flow of refugees, rising inflation and the mental health crisis both for children and for everyone, but it would be better to say that over the course of life, social work plays a very important role. It is more important than ever to ensure that people have access to services and necessary help and feel secure. It is the social worker who is often responsible for coping with the weakest or distressed in society. Social workers are currently at the forefront. They have to cope with everything, often on the verge of burnout themselves, because crises have not come today, but societies have been struggling in them for many years. I know that many of the most amazing people in the world, but those who do one of the hardest jobs, are faced with a decision as to whether to try to do their own work and continue or are considering quitting, because health and family are at risk, because the working day does not end at five o'clock in the evening, but the willingness to do so must be 24/7 if necessary, especially in the last two years because of the enormous workload. I would already like to congratulate all former and current social workers, carers and those studying this difficult profession on the occasion of tomorrow's International Social Work Day. I wish them health, endurance and attention. And that's not just one day of the year. For this reason, I wish you peaceful day-to-days and joy in your work and in helping people in need. I know that's not gonna happen right now. But wait, we can do this. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, social workers. The office of a member of the Riigikogu is temporary, just as a good fellow official in Leo Kunna said in the previous speech. However, in my case, the professional education of social work and the love for this work are permanent. Ladies and gentlemen, good social workers, be safe, both you and your loved ones. Congratulations on your social work day tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-14_U120	Thank you and congratulations on tomorrow's social work day. There's no more calls. That concludes the free microphone, and that concludes our hearing today, good colleagues. A lot of strength for you in your work! Thank you.
