ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law on early childhood education and care. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research in the proceedings of the draft law. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Secondly, the draft law amending the Prisoning Act and the Penal Code. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Penal Register Act, the Penal Code and the Child Protection Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Citizenship Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. And fifthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering and the detection, seizure and confiscation of proceeds from crime and on the financing of terrorism. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. All five draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U3	Thank you. Good fellows! There's no more calls. I have adopted five drafts on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U4	82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Dear colleagues, we are now at one of the most traditional changes. I've been negotiating with members of the body of elders at the end of last week. In fact, we have the opportunity to listen to the speech of the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskõi, in front of the Riigikogu, this is a video address on Wednesday this week at 12 noon. This requires, however, that we make a change in the working week schedule this week. The content of the amendment is that Question Time starts at 12.30 instead of 12:00 and ends at 14:00. We must vote on this because of our own rules of procedure and our own rules of procedure. I will begin the preparation of the vote on this matter. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U5	Are we only voting on this issue or the weekly schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U6	Yeah, I also thought that there might be some procedural questions about the weekly schedule, so maybe we could just do Question Time at first [vote] and then go to the weekly schedule, if that's possible. Then it's like one thing can be done and one thing can be done. So, yes, at the moment, only the Riigikogu would be scheduled for this week, which [touches] the Question Time. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U7	Thank you. I have a question about this week's agenda. The Constitutional Committee held a meeting last week, where the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education, initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, was discussed. This bill was presented and defended by the honourable Riigikogu member Jaak Valge. He basically did so very well, and when the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, asked when it would be possible to bring it to the hall, it was agreed that Jaak Valge would introduce it at first reading on Tuesday's day. This decision was coordinated because Jaak White is, as we know, very busy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reached an absolute consensus on this. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And now I am surprised to see that, with some kind of Ali Baba witchcraft, the introduction of this same bill has been placed on Wednesday's day as item 15. The question is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had him on Tuesday, but now he's been put somewhere else. We're practically off the agenda on Tuesday anyway. What were the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U8	Thank you. Good fellows! Of course, I think we will definitely continue with these procedural questions. I really do have a request that if we could solve this Question Time thing, it would be a good thing. But I'll answer it. The answer is that on Tuesday there were more items on the agenda of the working week in the original project. We know that many members of the Riigikogu also say that if OTRK comes, there must be enough time for its discussion and also for negotiations. Just in time, the Board of the Riigikogu wanted to move certain items from Tuesday. That was the reason, that's all. If you have a proposal to move this point elsewhere, you said that Mr. White is very busy, and I agree with that, you can make this proposal if you want to move this point somewhere else. You have this opportunity, Mr. Grünthal. Raivo Tamm, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U9	Thank you, Mr President. My question concerns Question Time. I do not mind, I would very much like to see [presentation], but I would like to ask, for clarification, whether the video address of the President of Ukraine will last for half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U10	Thank you. This has not been specified. I don't think it's gonna last for half an hour, but we have to have enough time. We don't have any information today about whether it's five minutes, it's seven minutes, it's 11 minutes. But I think it makes sense if we have half an hour of this window, and after that, we can go on with Question Time. There is no other explanation. So I don't have any information on how long this is gonna last. I will now begin Question Time, just to prepare the vote on this Question Time. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to change the working time schedule for the 11th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu so that Question Time starts at 12.30 noon on Wednesday 13 April. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U11	With the result of 85 votes against and no abstentions, this proposal has been adopted in good cooperation. Thank you. We will now proceed at the same pace with the Riigikogu's agenda for this working week. Here are some details. First of all, on Thursday, the Riigikogu's board discussed the agenda that has been placed on your tables, and the Riigikogu's board of directors sometimes happens as well, very rarely, however, did not reach an agreement on this issue. This, or only this, concerned the achievement of consensus on the Aliens Act and the draft law amending the Law on the Grant of International Protection to aliens 241. You will find it out of these yellow distributed draft agendas as the first item on the agenda today. Two Bureau members considered that the discussion should take place today as the first item on the agenda, and one Bureau member considered that it should take place on Wednesday as the fourth item on the agenda. As the Bureau did not reach a consensus on this issue, we ask the House to help. This means that, if the board member Martin Helme wishes, we will vote on it in this House in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. And we could go to a nice vote. But here's a few more procedural questions first. Eerik-Niles Kross, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U12	Thank you. I have a question about the performance of Zelenskiy and this week's agenda. I understand that Zelensky's performance is like an off-the- agenda event for the week, it's not on the agenda. So, in case we can't accept our weekly agenda by Wednesday morning, is Zelensky's performance still taking place or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U13	Well, it's still happening. I think it's happening. If we don't get this week's agenda adopted by Wednesday... Well, we voted through it, it was Question Time [vote] and Question Time starts at half one [and lasts] until two o'clock. The appearance of the President of Ukraine takes place, in principle, both outside the session and the Question Time, from 12 to half to one. Then we also have no tasks or jobs other than Question Time in our working time schedule according to our Home and Working Procedures Act. It was in negotiations with Ukraine and Kiev in his request and I think it is reasonable to meet him in this situation. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U14	Thank you, I really commend you. We could move forward at the same pace, and I really like that you are in an extremely good mood today, and that is why I propose. What do you think about the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 516 to move from Wednesday to Tuesday to the first point? We had no argument that Jaak White was a very busy person and also a very excited and wise person, and in the morning it is very good to listen to such reasonable and wise counsel regarding the introduction of this law. Given what I said earlier, what do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U15	Thank you. I have no objection to making this proposal, and you have this opportunity. I'm just gonna ask you a more specific question. This is your proposal to raise the 516 SE on Wednesday Tuesday, do you have the conviction that this should be the first item on the agenda, not after OTRK? I'll bounce the ball back to you for a second. Mr. Günthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U16	I think this could be the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U17	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U18	And there's, let's say, another clause. When agreements are coordinated, men still have to keep their word. Right? And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said it would come on Tuesday. Jaak White has rescheduled his schedule on this basis. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U19	I don't know what his schedule is. I assume, as you say, that Mr. White is a serious member of the Riigikogu, and he is on schedule on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, on all of these days, sittings of the Riigikogu and taking an active part in them, and certainly listening to them. But I've written down your proposal, we'll come to that. Your proposal is to raise the 516 SE to the first point on Tuesday. Let's keep going. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U20	Thank you very much. Yes, indeed, the question is procedural and it concerns today's first item on item 241 SE. Here my concern is that, well, first of all, we have a question of legitimacy here. As we know, all surveys have shown lately, even recent polls show that, in fact, more than 70% of the Estonian people do not support this bill. It's the question of legitimacy. But okay, here's our [question], does the Riigikogu want that... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U21	Good procedural questioner! I'm really asking for silence in the hall because there's too much noise. Indeed, we respect the questioner and those who want to listen. And if technically possible, a little bit more, please. Mr. Pulpland, take that time back now, I won't stop you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U22	Yes, I referred first to the question of legitimacy, and indeed I have a concern because the third reading has been taken in this situation. What is more important, however, is that the changes that have now been made there have been made in violation of the Rules of Procedure. These important changes, which concern the family and the family, or what concerns the mention of a restricted operation instead of war and, on the contrary, that the introduction of these amendments into the law is clearly meaningful rather than technical. And that is why I am paying the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that the previous President has said that if the draft is adopted in violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is a violation of the Constitution and this law cannot be compatible with the Constitution and the President does not declare it. That is the question, as the Riigikogu Board has now made a strange decision to put this draft into our procedure, even though the Rules of Procedure have been violated. I know Martin Helme voted against it, but who of the other members of the board was in favour of it coming to this day as the first item?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U23	Thank you. I mean, I'll start at the end, if you'll excuse me. No, I don't think anyone voted against it coming to the third reading. Mr Helme voted against this being the first item on the agenda today. His suggestion was that it would be the fourth [day line] on Wednesday. Other members of the board, i.e. Hanno Pevkur and Jüri Ratas, thought that this should be the first item on the agenda today. The fact that he came to the third reading was, in my conviction, a common understanding within the board. It is not possible to prevent this from being managed by the Home and Working Procedures Act, and I always look at you, and then it will be remembered by the Law itself. And let me also say, although you certainly know this, that according to § 53 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu Board prepares the agenda of the Riigikogu's working week for the Riigikogu on the basis of the proposals made by the Riigikogu committees, the agreements reached with the addressees of inquiries and the proposals made by other rapporteurs to answer questions. And I would also like to say, and you also referred to it on one point, I realized that the reference was to how much has been amended after the second reading, when the amendments have ended, it is very clear here that § 110 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that the commission will prepare the final text of the draft for the third reading, in which it will introduce linguistic and technical clarifications after the second reading. And whether it is linguistic and technical specifications or something else, the lead committee decides. Okay. And also for legitimacy, I will answer. You said that a large part of [the people] opposed it. You're relying on a study published today. That is what the plenary of the Riigikogu must say, who is in favour of who is opposed, just as we usually have draft laws for three readings. Or [he says it] then on Wednesday, depending on how the vote is going now, and he doesn't know what to expect. Thank you. Let's keep going. Aivar Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U24	I have a question about the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group 548. The Commission's decision is that this draft will be submitted to the Chamber on Tuesday, 12 April. No one has made contact with the rapporteurs to change that date. Every time it has been said here that if there is a change or if ministers do not arrive, ministers were to discuss when they would come next time, or the Commission's rapporteurs. But at this point it is not, and I propose that this bill be on Tuesday. And that could be after OTRK.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U25	Thank you. First answer to you. I'm sorry I haven't contacted the initiators of the bill. And so it is. Now, that's your second suggestion. I'm fixing that your proposal is that it's Tuesday, April 12th, and you agree that it's after OTRK. The truth is why the Bureau tried to move the drafts from this Tuesday agenda to other days; it was linked to the fact that OTRK, as a rule, takes time. This is a serious debate and, as we know, on Tuesday there are only three hours. We may get an extra hour if the House supports this proposal. But I thank you for the flexibility that you agree to raise this point on Tuesday after OTRK. So let me write that down. It seems that the procedural questions will soon be over and we will be able to come back nicely to this proposal concerning 548. Thank you. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, we're here in the face of a very big mess that doesn't really have any justification. When the Commission reached consensus and agreed with the rapporteur-general or the rapporteur-general that 516 SE should be in the Chamber on Tuesday, I think we should definitely agree with that. I am proposing to put the bill on 516 Tuesday. And since the Fatherland has initiated a debate on a crucial national issue, in order not to harm them and in order to allow this debate to happen in a nice way, the processing of the 516 SE could be placed on the second agenda item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U27	Thank you. I take, good Henn Põllamaas, including this [proposal]. And I'm also going to apologize here, because I understand that 516 weren't spoken to the initiators of the SE, they weren't informed. So I'm sorry to you, too. But I'll write down your proposal, good Henn Põllamaas. Only I'm in front of a little problem. Here are two slightly different alternative proposals. Mr Grünthal said very strongly that [this must] be the first item on the agenda, but we will come back to that too. Basically, in one part you have a similar proposal to raise it by Tuesday, April 12th. I understand you agree that this would be after OTRK. I'm sure I'll come back to that soon as these procedural questions are over. Maybe there's some people who don't have a microphone or have other problems, problems. Martin Helme, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U28	Thank you. I'm also talking about the Aliens Act. We have two of them this week, two different: 241 SE and 516 SE. And gone exactly backwards. The Commission's proposal was to hold 241 SE discussions on Monday. All our other third readings are always on Wednesday, but here the Commission was agreed. 516 SE discussions were proposed by the Commission on Tuesday, but were raised by the Bureau. Now some of the things that I would like the big hall to understand better about this board dispute. My wish was for us not to put 241 on the agenda at all, because I also believe that our own law on home and working procedures has been violated. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is precisely in that, after the second reading, after completing the second reading, that the Commission has introduced substantive amendments to the draft law. In my opinion, this is a violation of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act and a violation of the Constitution. And I wanted it not to be put on the agenda at all. In the forthcoming debate, it became clear that the Bureau would not be able to place the draft on the agenda if the Commission sent it to third reading. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We can choose the day, but not putting it on the agenda is beyond our control. Then I wanted us to do a bill of legal analysis inside our house. At least one other member of the Governing Board was not in favour of this either. I didn't want to bring this argument into this hall, so we left it at that. But no doubt now, after the final vote, if it were to be adopted in this Chamber, it is still our view that it is against the law and the rules of procedure. I repeat, in my opinion, if we can now reach an agreement, we could put the draft back on 516 Tuesday. And I think we can also agree on how many points he is, it is not that big a problem for us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U29	Thank you. I will also write down your proposal, Martin Helme: Bill 516 could go back on Tuesday. It is not excluded that at the moment we make these important decisions, you will have to chair the sitting of the Riigikogu and your proposal [also touches]. It's not out of the question at all. But now, yes, this 516 SE, of course it's a first reading, Bill 241 is a third. And once again: the debate on Tuesday [from] that there would be enough time for OTRK to have a good-to-good time, because this is an important issue. Now, that analysis you were talking about. Yeah, a board member didn't agree to order this analysis. As far as I know, at least one political group has ordered this analysis in our house in the Riigikogu. All right, let's go. Leo Kunnas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. My procedural question concerns paragraph 47 of § 1 of the Bill and the definition of the war in Ukraine. Now it is here in this form, I read it out: "Because of the military conflict in Ukraine, since February 24, 2022..." I interrupt reading here. I would like to emphasise first of all that this amendment is not linguistic, but is substantive. So what have we written here with this change? We have essentially written in here that there is a military conflict in Ukraine, which means that we have defined this conflict as essentially armed internal conflict or civil war. For example, when we say military conflict in Mali, we do not understand it so that Niger or Chad would have attacked Mali. We're talking about a conflict inside Mali. The same applies to Mozambique, for example. When we talk about the military conflict in Mozambique and participation in the operation, we do not understand this so that Zimbabwe or South Africa have invaded Mozambique. Similarly, when we talk about the War of Independence, we are not talking about the military conflict in Estonia, or if Russia invades Estonia, we are not talking about the military conflict in Estonia. Here it is necessary, as I pointed out last time in this Chamber, to essentially correct it, but it is not possible to do so between second and third readings. In the current political situation, the only acceptable wording here could be either "Russian aggression against Ukraine" or "Russian wide-ranging military assault on Ukraine." There are other definitions we shouldn't write here. Is it true that when President Zelenskiy talks to us, we put blue-yellow ribbons on the chest, stand up after his speech and admit that we signed up for such a thing? It's a miracle we don't sign up for a military special operation. I am therefore forced to categorically protest against the inclusion of this draft on the agenda and ask for my protest in the interests of historical truth to be fixed. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U31	Thank you. It's definitely fixed in the verbatim. But I'm coming up with what you said. I said this at the beginning of the Riigikogu sitting, and I repeat this: Paragraph 110 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure states that: the commission prepares the final text of the draft for the third reading, in which, after completing the second reading, it introduces linguistic and technical specifications. This means that other clarifications, which are substantive, must not be introduced. Whether or not these are linguistic and technical specifications will be decided by the lead committee. And the commission has worked through these [changes]. This is not decided, and this assessment is not made by the President of the sitting or the Board of the Riigikogu. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U32	Thank you. I will pick up where you have finished your speech. As far as I can remember, you weren't there in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that's why I'm talking about what happened there exactly as it was. The question is that at this session we repeatedly pointed out that the Riigikogu's [home and work] procedures and also the technical rules of the drafts, although they are all mandatory for us. The same fact that has now been pointed out here by my good colleague, Leo Kunnas, that this is not a technical change or any other change is a substantive change. We were just discussing this question for half an hour. Half an hour! We took the help of all these yellow books and all the other smart papers, and it turned out that it was actually a substantive change that could not be made during the second and third reading breaks. And here's the whole question, it was just pushed through by Toomas Kivimägi with voices. And the most drastic thing was that he said in doing it: I'm taking that risk. That is the kind of thing that couldn't happen in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at all, that someone was taking a risk. There must be an absolutely risk-free situation in which we take and process things as prescribed by the rules. What happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that if this goes through and brings this bill to this hall, no one will wash this black stain off the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu coat. It'll be there forever. Such things cannot, Mr Ratas, be allowed to violate the norm rules and the Riigikogu's [home and work] procedures in the name of some kind of government's objectives. Who else, let us say, must try to follow the law most closely than the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu. We're taking his reputation down. But here it has been violated by the fact that there have been both technical and linguistic changes that must not be made. Not to mention that there is no demographic analysis in this same explanatory memorandum, no regional impact analysis, no security analysis. He exists, of course, but he is absolutely the opposite of content. One sentence says, yes, there are no security problems here, and the next sentence is about the Special Branch report that it poses a threat. The authors of the explanatory memorandum have not even bothered to read the text normally. Such errors make it impossible to deal with this draft today, and I have a serious request. I have no one else to turn to: please exclude this draft from 241 proceedings. The Riigikogu has already been called a rubber stamp, and if we allow it through, what face will we look the people in the eye? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U33	Thank you. First of all, I want to state this principled position that this turnover phrase, this rubber stamp, of course, I think that under no circumstances can it be accepted. On the contrary, the Riigikogu must essentially deal with its work. What you said, Mr Grünthal, I have quoted here a couple of times this Article 110 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. I also took out a commentary for a moment. In relation to this §110, it says, as you said, this so-called yellow book, as follows: linguistic and technical clarifications are primarily the making of improvements which do not affect the rights and obligations of persons and which are in line with the decisions made by the Riigikogu on the draft during the procedure. The linguistic and technical specifications are not amendments within the meaning of § 100 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act and are not voted by the plenary assembly. As a member of the governing board of the Riigikogu and as a manager at the moment, I can only rely on the faith and confidence that the commission, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, may, to my knowledge, be at an extraordinary, if I am not mistaken, and at a regular session, it has been appreciated and has been based on the principle that no other changes will be made here. Only linguistic and technical. I can rely on that. Thank you. A procedural question, Mr Laneman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am forced to join the protest of a good colleague, Leo Kunnas. This week, we're going to have colliding sign events. With today's first item on the agenda, we are fixing Russia's massive attack as an internal conflict in Ukraine. Then we have a video meeting with the President of Ukraine. I want to imagine how we're gonna look him in the eye when this change in our definition of war becomes known to him. And I think it's a big risk that it might. I appreciate it as an insult to the entire country through the President of Ukraine, and I also appreciate it as a humiliation of the Republic of Estonia and the Estonian Parliament, as well as an insult to our people who have helped Ukraine. Because the fact remains: the lead committee has formulated the Russian Federation's attack on Ukraine as an internal conflict, and this is a substantive change. And we also have a meeting with the Ukrainian ambassador on Thursday at the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. I can't imagine how we look him in the eye. I think it's a little bit more complicated here than just finding an answer in the rules of procedure. I think this is where the head of the Riigikogu has to work and find a way out. That the Commission can push through one thing, which costs to offend the Ukrainian state and shame Estonia internationally, I think it is too serious. So, unfortunately, I'm joining Leo Kunnas' protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U35	Thank you. No, I don't think you have to join it. I believe that many members of the Riigikogu may have the same position as Leo Kunnas said here. I, as the manager, must be guided by what our Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act says. It says that the commission appreciates it and that it is the responsibility of the directors to believe in this commission's assessment in the performance of the chairman's duties. The board has no other options. As I said, I am based on the fact that there are only technical and linguistic changes here. You say that these are, in fact, substantive changes. And that's the axis of this debate. In return, I can say that this has been assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I said, at least one faction, I do not know whether there have been more of them - a legal assessment, which is basically the same that there are no substantive changes. But there can certainly be different legal assessments. But thank you. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U36	Thank you. We are now debating for a long time what these improvements are: is it what you say, or is it what we say? You also said that linguistic and substantive clarifications can be made between second and third readings, and whether they are linguistic or substantive is decided by the Commission. Then you also said that a legal analysis was commissioned by the Commission. Unfortunately, the story of this legal analysis is that the chairman of the commission, Toomas Kivimägi, had the AK Temple or "Intra-Institutional Use" placed on it. And now there is such a strange situation that the members of the Riigikogu are said to be unable to get acquainted with this legal analysis, as this temple is on top of it and it precludes us from reading it. And I have the question: how is it possible for a member of the Riigikogu, even though he is the chairman of the committee, to order some sort of legal analysis that other members of the Riigikogu cannot see, and especially on this issue? Do we have some kind of "Nexitral" book going on right now, where Muff writes himself letters that he can only read and the others can't? I have a question: are the members of the Riigikogu members members of this institution, the Riigikogu, or are they not? How could this happen? Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U37	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu are, of course, members of the Riigikogu; they do not work outside. I have never mentioned any of the analyses commissioned by the commission today. I didn't mention that. I have said that at least one group has ordered it. As far as I am aware, the internal organisation of our work reads as follows: they are for internal use, unless this analysis is decided differently by the client. If you have information that the commission or the chairman of the commission has ordered something, then I hope that I will correctly interpret our order in this house, within the house, it will automatically be for internal use. If the subscriber wishes to extend it, the subscriber has the option. A procedural question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, am very upset that we are pushing it like this right now, because we have discussed these aspects here even more in the past. However, these are substantive changes. You're saying there's nothing you can do about it from the board. If you knew in advance that this debate would continue, why didn't you take the time and why didn't you order this legal analysis from the Bureau? You're suggesting that you know one or the other has ordered here, and obviously you've read this analysis too, I suppose. But we don't know what the contents are. All the aspects that Leo Kunnas and Alar Laneman have pointed out here are also referred to by the previous president, Mr Paul Puustusmaa, in relation to matters that have been dealt with incorrectly. This is not the right procedure for what you are doing here, and I also protest absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U39	Thank you. I have not said, on any procedural question, whether this position is right or wrong. I have only stressed that Article 110 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, which contains the competence of the commission, as Helle-Moonika Helme said, to make technical and linguistic corrections. The [Commission] shall decide whether the amendment is substantive. In answer to your question, good Rene Chef, why the board did not order this analysis, [I repeat], which Martin Helme has already explained: because a member of the board did not support it. And there was no member who would have suggested that we put it to a vote in this Chamber whether or not to order an analysis. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, first of all, it is deeply sad that we are forced out of the framework of our work to go out and ask the court for help. It is a little embarrassing that we, as legislators, must turn to the court to find a solution. But now, by supporting what Rene Koka said and going beyond it, I would like to ask that the public also know very precisely whether, in the situation where an act [approved] by an unconstitutional act has come to the table of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, there is no possibility for the Riigikogu to observe it and tell the Commission that there is one problem. Or is it that, even if there is an act contrary to the Constitution, the governing board of the Riigikogu must, in any case, send it to the large hall? Here's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U41	Thank you. As I said, this substantive assessment must be carried out by the lead committee. This is not given by the Riigikogu Board to all the drafts that we are discussing. We are organising the emergence of the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, but of course we are not giving [all] our legal assessment. If you have a feeling and maybe many members of the Riigikogu have a feeling that this is not the right bill, or as one of the previous speakers said here, you yourself said that it is not expected in society, then in democracy there is an opportunity to say that I am in favour of it or I am against it. There is even a way to be impartial. So either it's to be supported or it's not to be supported. But yes, the Riigikogu Board does not give the assessment you asked about. And in the end, Estonia is the rule of law. You referred to one solution here. I think you referred to this solution when we went on teleworking and then really the Supreme Court made its decision and said what it thought. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U42	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Last time I asked you a question, it was a very long second and related to a violation of the regulations and rules of procedure. You said very clearly that if the change is technical, there is no problem. Let me get this straight. I think I got it. However, if a change creates rights or obligations or changes them, it is a substantive change. And we drew attention to this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because at second reading the concept of "husband" had been introduced to settle with a close relative. And at one point in the third reading, which [text] we currently have on this table, this "husband" has become a "close relative." What I want to say is that the rights and obligations of a spouse are significantly different than those of a close relative who does not qualify as a spouse. This is already a substantive amendment which should not, in fact, be included in this draft. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U43	Thank you. I maintain that the purpose of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act really is that after the second reading, when the deadline for amendments is... Sorry, after the first reading, when the deadline for amendments has expired,... I come back, after the second reading, you can make changes that are only linguistic and technical, not substantive. Whether or not this is the case will be decided by the lead committee. So I'm sticking to my answer. In this case, this assessment must be made and has been made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U44	Thank you. I asked about this or noted that a member of the Riigikogu, Toomas Kivimägi, has ordered this analysis. That's the kind of information we had and still have. You claimed that this was ordered by the Riigikogu Group, the Reform Party Group. Okay, but we can't read it because they've classified it. Only they know what's written in it, what's said in the analysis. But if the Reform Party Group has ordered an analysis of the draft law [of] which has been written in that there is an internal conflict in Ukraine, then it literally confirms Russia's and Kremlin's narrative about what is happening in Ukraine. And if the Centre Party also supports it, then we have a government that, in words and deeds, has chosen Russia in this war. Not to mention that this law itself destabilises Estonian society by bringing in so many foreign citizens, people of foreign origin. That's what the Kremlin really wants. Do you really think we have to agree to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U45	Thank you. I have never mentioned that the Reform Party Group has ordered anything. Thank you. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U46	Thank you, Mr President. My protest also concerns the Aliens Act, today's first item on the agenda. I can't agree with your explanations. I can't understand them. First of all, it is not possible for the Bureau to do anything on the basis of its own rules of procedure and rules of procedure, once the commission has decided that a draft contrary to the law on domestic and working procedures will be referred to third reading. Yes, it is! You can discuss it, process it and send it back to the Commission with a request to review it and to bring it into line with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Such a form of communication is perfectly possible and normal. The Governing Board has also taken such decisions in the past and has sent the [draft] back to the Commission or to the originator if it has found that the draft does not comply with the requirements. So such cooperation and negotiation with the Commission is certainly possible. Today's long debate on procedural issues shows that the Bureau should have done so. The board still has this opportunity. My proposal is to remove this draft from this week's agenda, to bring it into line with the Home and Working Rules Act, which the Commission is perfectly able to do, and to come to third reading nicely when it is in accordance with the law. I shall briefly explain why I believe that this is not in accordance with the law on domestic and working arrangements. It has been said here before that this definition has been extremely unsuccessful. It's probably a translation from Russian using the Putin term, who said it was a military operation. But here he is transformed into a "military conflict," which is even more bizarre and can indeed be interpreted as a civil war in Ukraine. This is an extremely unsuccessful approach. And precisely the substantive change between second and third readings on this point is that the second reading text defined the beginning of the war in Ukraine, in the opinion of the Estonian Parliament and according to the interpretation of the Estonian Parliament. I read the second reading: "The military conflict that began on February 24, 2022 has a legal basis..." and so on. And only then will this legal basis come, which specifically concerns these Ukrainian people. So, at the moment, this provision has been amended very significantly, in principle. It has not actually been changed by the formal side, it has been changed by the content and it has also been extremely unsuccessful. I understand that the Commission tried to correct this mistake, but in fact made the situation worse and [the draft] worse both in substance and form. And the other change exactly as well. In no way can it be regarded as simply a linguistic or technical change if the second reading defined a "close relative" and the third reading "close relative" has changed to "husband." We all understand very well that the circle of close relatives in the sense of law is, or can be, much wider than that of a spouse alone. This is a very substantive change. Personally, I very much support this limitation, but it is a substantive change that cannot be made after the second reading. And if anyone in this hall claims that a husband equals a close relative in Estonian legislation, then we still need to revise a number of laws in Estonian legislation. It is very interesting what are the officials and experts of the State Chancellery who believe that only linguistic changes are involved. These are very substantive changes. And I would like to remind you that we have disgracefully lost in court this dispute concerning going to teleworking when the Board of the Riigikogu put pressure on the entire large hall and we voted whether it is legal or not. You can't vote here whether it's legal or not. And we have already lost once in a similar case in the case of collective law, which the previous President failed to declare, precisely because, after the second reading, substantive and not formal changes were made. We also argued here and wise experts and officials in the Riigikogu said that it was only linguistic changes. And now it's the third time. Well, for how long! This is also a question of parliamentary authority. Let's put an end to this bull. So my proposal is to remove this unfit draft from the agenda, bring it into line with the Home and Working Procedures Act and then come to third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U47	Thank you. I will stick to my reply that this substantive assessment may not be made, but I will say that it is necessary for the lead committee to do so. What you said, Mr Seeder, is that the Bureau has also sent the draft back to the initiator, for example, I think it has been when the draft is in the first stage of the Bureau when a commission is appointed. Maybe it's been between readings, but I don't remember it right now. Now what you said about the president is true. The rule of law is so structured, and I think it is good that the President must also give his position if the draft Riigikogu supports, in this case this draft 241. Yeah, you're right, you're wrong. The Supreme Court gave its assessment of going to a distance hearing, and this also shows that Estonia is the rule of law and strong in its foundations. But yes, once again, this substantive thing that you read out, and I understand and understand what your concern is, but its substantive assessment must be made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has given it and has said that there are no substantive changes here. Whether this is the case or not, we must build on the position of the lead committee. A procedural question, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U48	Thank you. I also have a question about the processing of Bill 241. There were unexpected changes to the text of the second reading of this draft, which had not been previously negotiated either in the Chamber or with the social partners. And it is a bad practice in itself, but it is acceptable if we see that all parties agree and have a broad consensus. One of these amendments concerned the social guarantees for seafarers and the explanatory memorandum for the amendments stated that they had been negotiated with the social partners and that they had reached a consensus. The social partners themselves confirm that no consensus has been reached, and they have also shown, in support of this, the minutes of the meetings, which really show that this consensus has not been agreed. It has been agreed to move towards it. This actually means that there are statements in Parliament's explanatory memorandum that are not entirely true. Do you think this situation is appropriate and appropriate to the democratic process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U49	Thank you very much for this procedural question. In this sense, I will stick to the view that these assessments must be made by the lead committee, which has the task of involving different interest groups, different partners. Whether they are sufficiently involved or not, this cannot be decided by the President, it must be decided by the lead committee. Heiki Hepner, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U50	Thank you very much, Chairman. I, too, will touch bill 241. It has been said in this debate that the chairman of the committee has ordered some kind of analysis and that it is as if this analysis says that it is technical specifications that absolutely cannot be accepted. I wanted to take a look at this analysis, and this analysis might well have been included in this draft [materials]. There's no clue in the record that such a thing has been done, let alone analysis. How could such a thing be interpreted? Why is this analysis, once carried out, not included in the draft procedure [documents]? And how would this analysis finally be available? Is this analysis still done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U51	Thank you. What has been ordered by the chairman of the committee, I cannot answer you. If you want to know, you have to turn to him. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U52	Thank you. I would like to return to these substantive changes. I still have the question that if we process it today, if the Reform Party and the Centre Party roll it through this Chamber of the Riigikogu right now, how will we look into the eye of the President of Ukraine, Zelenskiy, when our Riigikogu documents state that what is happening in his country is not aggression, not war, but internal conflict? How can Kaja Kallas go to Europe when his party is what is happening in Butcha, where young children and women are being raped, called internal conflict exactly as Putin calls it? It is not normal what is happening here today in the light of this war!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U53	Thank you. These changes, whether substantive or not, must be assessed in this context by the lead committee, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U54	Good manager! As a result of the foregoing, I ask you, are you prepared to introduce President Zelensekõi to the fact that we are now giving the floor to President Zelensekõi, the head of one of the parties involved in the internal conflict in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U55	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. But I will introduce him as President of Ukraine. A procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U56	Thank you, good Chairman! My procedural question [is this]. When the deadline for amendments was over in November 2020 and is now very much enhanced by so-called war refugees and if the members of the Riigikogu do not have the opportunity to propose amendments to it, but you claim that the assessment of whether the members of the Riigikogu may be given the opportunity to propose amendments will be made by the committee, that is my question. If we understand that the chairman of the committee has already churned, even if there was a broad consensus in the old [draft], who now has to take responsibility and ensure that members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to make substantive amendments concerning war refugees? Or [perhaps] the court finds that the committee is higher than the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U57	Thank you. The committee is certainly not higher than the Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu plenary will decide, 101 members separately, on the basis of the principle of free mandate, whether they support any decisions, support or do not support any draft laws. On the substantive side, I also say to you, good Tarmo Kruusimäe, that this must be decided by I stress, the lead committee must decide whether this is a change of substance or not. Mart Networker, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U58	On the agenda, in favour of the Reform Party Group, I propose that item 15 on Wednesday, i.e. 516 SE, be moved to the first point on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U59	Thank you. I will now go to these proposals. We have four proposals here. My first question goes to Kalle Grünthal. You have proposed that [the draft] 516, which is agenda item 15 on Wednesday, be placed on the first item on Tuesday. Similar proposals have been made by the Reform Party. Henn Põllaas and Martin Helme have proposed that this could be beyond OTRK. My question is: will you stick to your proposal, Mr Grünthal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U60	I think so, maybe. I'm still sticking to my proposal. If I made him, then I'm gonna stick to that proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U61	Okay, thanks. I have a request to the Riigikogu. I would like to ask you, Members of the Council of Elders, if I may ask you once in front of this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Let's take a break for five minutes. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U62	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. So, what did this break give us? Granted that the proposals had been withdrawn and a consensus had been found between the proposers, and also in the body of elders, that the first item on Tuesday 12 April was OTRK. On Tuesday, the second item is the draft initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 516. And the third item on Tuesday is the draft law initiated by the Isamaa Group 548. It's one side now. But before we can vote on the agenda, we will continue to have a question of when we will deal with draft 241. In fact, I'll remind you, there's a different approach here. One approach is that a member of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, has proposed that 241 discussions be held on Wednesday, that is on 13 April as the fourth item on the agenda. Two Bureau members disagree and have said that this could be the first item on Monday 11 April. First of all, we must vote on the proposal on when this draft will be on the agenda, either on Monday or Wednesday. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I'm sorry! A procedural question, Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U63	Yeah, we got a little confused about which proposal is going to be voted on. That the bill stays on Monday or that it stays on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U64	Thank you. The text that goes to the vote at the moment, which is an introduction, maybe so, is as follows: I am voting on the proposal of Martin Helme, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, that the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on the Grant of International Protection to aliens be the fourth item on Wednesday. And then I say a sentence to ask you to take a stand and vote. And then there's the hammer kick. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the proposal by Martin Helme, member of the Board of the Riigikogu, that the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the law on granting international protection to an alien take place on Wednesday as the fourth item on the agenda. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U65	With the result of 20 votes to 51, the proposal has not been supported. Good fellows! We are now moving to the vote on this week's agenda. A few explanations in front of us. First of all, we must take into account that the debate on draft 241 is taking place today, which is on Monday, 11 April, on the basis of the vote just concluded. Secondly, this agenda, which goes to the vote, has changed. This has changed as follows: It's about Tuesday, and it's about Wednesday. The first item on Tuesday is as it says here. This is a debate on a key national issue on the state of play in helping Ukraine, initiated by the Special Committee on National Budget Control. The second item is the 15th item on the agenda coming on Wednesday, which will move on Tuesday to the second item on the agenda. And this is the first reading of the Aliens Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Act amending higher education 516. On Tuesday, 12 April, the third item will come from the Wednesday agenda, which is the 17th item. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group. Together with these proposals, I will put the agenda for the 11th working week of the VII plenary session to the vote. Before we do that, we'll do a call sign. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu, together with the aforementioned amendments. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U66	The agenda for our 11th working week of the VII session has been adopted with the result of 71 votes against 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U67	Dear colleagues, let us now move to the debate on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 241 on the Amendment to the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I will open negotiations and ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U68	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, An hour to the procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U69	I apologize to you! I'm asking for silence in the hall! Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! I'm asking for silence in the hall! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U70	I'm trying to speak louder. I repeat, first of all, that, in our opinion, in the opinion of our group, I believe that, in bringing this draft to third reading, our own Rules of Procedure have been very fundamentally violated, saying that only linguistic and technical changes can be introduced after the completion of the second reading of the draft. It is absolutely clear that much more extensive changes have been introduced to this text, which are substantive. If Russia's attack on Ukraine had been poorly formulated in the text after the initial second reading, then it was corrected and even worse here. Now, in the final vote, we have a draft law that essentially introduces an amendment that says that there is a civil war in Ukraine, there is no attack or invasion. Secondly, there has been a very basic change in the circle of people affected by this law, rather than a husband, the term 'close relative' has been introduced much more vaguely and widely. This is a fundamental change of substance. Such changes in the Commission between second and third readings are scandalous and are, in fact, absolutely unacceptable in law. If we let it slide like this, we can throw our yellow book into the trash, there's no rule, just roll over. The fact that the Commission discussed three times and came to the conclusion that this can be done again, that the coalition's vote decides that black is white and white is black does not really mean that it is. There is also objective truth. We will undoubtedly address the President and ask him not to declare it. Precedents exist in Estonia for both the current President and the previous President. And no doubt, if it doesn't help, we'll go to the court. And now we're getting to the bottom of it. Why was it necessary to break the law, roll over, actually do a total procedural ax work? The answer is that it is still because there are powerful economic interest groups in Estonia who make a lot of money with this change. Whether some of this money will reach out to those people or those parties who are now pressing the green button, maybe someday we'll find out. On the procedural side, it should be pointed out that the draft law was initiated by the previous government. That's why he has a funny number: we're dealing with the law here with the number [from] 400, but it's number 241. This is, in fact, a draft initiated by the previous government, the content of which was exactly the opposite of what has come here today. This restricted immigration, it restricted the introduction of labour into Estonia and laid down conditions for the introduction of labour, which will really help the Estonian economy to become a high productivity, highly skilled high-wage economy. Today's bill does the exact opposite. Today's bill opens wide Estonian doors to immigration from all over the world. Under the lowest possible conditions, the period during which there can be so-called temporary workers will be reduced to pay will be extended, the possibility of bringing temporary workers [here relatives] will be created. I stress: we are always told some fairy tale about how temporary workers leave this place and do not bring their relatives here. Today's final vote will prolong the presence of temporary workers here in such a way that they will essentially become permanent, and it will enable them to bring their relatives here. Estonia is being flooded with people from other parts of the world who are willing to come here and work for the cripples. What does it do for the Estonian labour market? What does it do to Estonia's wage level? What does it do with innovation in the Estonian economy? What does this do with productivity growth in the Estonian economy? In all these areas, it leads to decline! All of them! This law makes Estonia's life worse. And again, the question is, why do you need it? Because we have parties sitting in the pocket of some big, influential company who want to make money with it. If you no longer have to pay the producer EUR 1 500 or EUR 2 000 but can pay him EUR 800, someone will get richer. Not the Estonian workers, not the state collecting the Estonian tax, but someone gets richer, much richer. These are the companies behind this bill. And, of course, I have no illusions about the Reform Party. They're willing to sell everything - for the country, for the people, for their own small amount of money. I have a serious complaint to the Centre Party, who at least occasionally pretends to be on the working side. After voting in favour of this draft, it is no longer possible to seriously commit this pretense to anyone. It is still depressing and curious when the only party in Estonia that stands on the side of contractors is not the Socots or the Centre Party, but is the Estonian Conservative People's Party. That is where we have come out, and for that, of course, you will all pay in the elections, but before that, the entire Estonian people will pay because wages will start to decrease. The people of Estonia will be fired because Abdul or Sanja will be replaced by a smaller salary. So what if he doesn't speak Estonian, which is if I go to Maxima's store and ask for some breadcrumbs, they look at me like I speak Chinese, and they say basically what they told me when I was 15 and lived in Lasnamägi: speak human languages. It is simply no longer possible to manage your native language in the Estonian capital. That's what the law does. Our nation state is being demolished by this law at turbo-speed. But, well, still, let's put a Ukrainian flag next to a blue black and white flag on our chest and pretend we're patriots. You're selling your country with this bill. Shame!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U71	Thank you. I now ask for Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, representative of the Isamaa Group, to speak in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U72	Thank you. I'm asking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U73	Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U74	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft procedure is another example of a cultureless procedure. And I'm ashamed. I am ashamed that the current government coalition has decided to adopt a draft, which had been drawn from the very opposite aims of the previous government, which had stopped here and which no longer found any further work, because of the coalition's exchange. And now this dusted bill was removed from the drawer, it was actually completely reversed and tried to push through the power position. This is a bill that is contrary to the Home and Working Procedures Act and the Estonian Constitution. I'm sure we'll find out in the next few days and weeks if it comes to the president's table or the hearing table. But he will certainly be there, because the Isamaa Group is protesting about this approach in the procedure for this draft. There has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber, which are the reasons why we find that this is contrary to the law, to the law of the house and to the rules of procedure. First of all, this extremely unsuccessful, very principled and, I think, most of all, the provision that has been drawn attention to outside Estonia as regards the definition of the military conflict. It is extremely embarrassing to read it here in [the bill]. The failed text of the second reading has been made even more unsuccessful for the third reading. In the case of the second-reading draft, the beginning of the war was extremely unsuccessful. The Estonian Parliament is now evaluating, and I quote: "Because of the military conflict that began on 24 February 2022..." Two big mistakes. First of all, the military conflict in Ukraine, which has been highlighted here, which can be treated as a civil war, as a conflict within Ukraine. Secondly, according to the Estonian Parliament, military action has only begun on 24 February 2022. And now the text has been transformed into this: "The war conflict in Ukraine has been the legal basis since 24 February 2022...' and so on. This military conflict in Ukraine has been left behind as a civil war. Here, I would point out, this is a substantive change, a very substantive amendment. The date of the beginning of the war has no longer been mentioned; the estimated date of the beginning of the war has been omitted. And this is a very substantive change. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And another amendment concerning [content]: a close relative and a spouse, well, there is no way to put an equal sign between them and say that it is simply a linguistic change. When you say "husband," think "close relative," when you say "close relative," think "husband"? That's it? You could put an equal sign between them? Oh, my God! This is the level of the Estonian Parliament today. We are hearing this from the chairman's desk that the board is also of the same opinion as I understand. Well, I don't know, there was only a conflict in the board, I understand, about putting on the agenda, but nothing more. But okay, that's the way it is. Now, other substantive changes. Regrettably, this war and refugees have been exploited and the entire Estonian immigration and migration policy has been changed in their shadow. Instead of addressing the issue of refugees and refugees separately and coming here with a draft that is acutely needed to be resolved, amendments to the whole migration and immigration policy have been grafted on. Many employers may see refugees and refugees as a solution to their problems, or the possibility of using cheap labour. This too has been incorporated into this law, namely as a [wage] coefficient of 0.8. I think it's also unworthy of the people who come here. They don't just come here for cheap labor. And we are not currently solving the problem of cheap labour in Estonia with refugees and refugees. Another issue is that Estonia should not have to rebuild its economy at all to the advantage of cheap labour; we should have been out of it a long time ago. Regrettably, no. Employers now see, using the help of certain political parties, the possibility of including in the law that one group, one target group that arrives here, is treated as cheap labour, not on an equal footing with other workers. Regrettably, there is also what concerns temporary work. Let me remind you that once we started six months, then it turned into nine months, then it changed to 12 months and now it's been two years. Well, it's not a temporary job anymore. And probably, if six months have become two years in some time, then two years may become four or five. So today it can be said that if this bill is adopted and it also enters into force, Estonia's current immigration and migration policy, which has served us all these decades very sensibly and constructively, will be completely null and void. And once again, I stress that we have a sad experience in which we have made substantive changes to the draft after our second reading. The President has never announced such a bill before. I hope that this time, too, the President will carry out his constitutional task and supervise Parliament and will return this draft to us. Well, then we can process it again already and bring it into line with the laws in force. Of course, this draft will not be supported by the final vote on the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U75	Okay, thank you. I now request a representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Sorry, there's a procedural question first. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U76	I know that our working language is Estonian, but I would like the manager to make an exception for Toomas Kivimägi, as this bill will inevitably turn Russian into the dominant language in Estonia over the next few years. Let him practice Russian when he does his report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U77	Thank you for this proposal. I do not support this proposal. I support your principle that our working language is Estonian in this hall. I must admit, among other things, that the English word okey, which was spoken here some time ago, does not touch the ear, nor is it in Estonian. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by Toomas Kivimägi, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U78	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am abusing the powers of my group and speaking for the first minute as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to assure all of you here, ladies and gentlemen, that all the amendments made to the text of the draft after second reading are either linguistic or technical. And what is very important, which was also brought to the attention of the President of the sitting, indeed, a very important keyword for assessing whether it is a linguistic or technical [amendment] or not, is that no change affects the rights and obligations of persons or the decisions made by the Riigikogu in the course of the procedure. This is really very important. If we change the decisions made or change rights and obligations, it is obviously a non-lingual or non-technical specification. Similarly, the President of the sitting pointed out that an assessment of whether linguistic and technical changes were being made would be made by the commission responsible. I am now referring to the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of 7 April proposing that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote 11.04.2022. There were five on its side: Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobenik, Tõnis Mölder, Marko Storm, Mart Võrguship. Three opposed: Kalle Grünthal, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa. There was one abstention: Eduard Odines. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has thus assessed this same text at third reading and has taken the same view that all amendments made are linguistic or technical clarifications. Now to the substance of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, Ukraine... Ah, the third line is that it is completely incomprehensible to me to regard this draft text as a [reference] to civil war or internal conflict. I would nevertheless sincerely recommend to my colleagues that they examine the text of the draft text and all the material. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum states very clearly that this is Russia's military aggression against Ukraine. That is very clear. If anyone laughs at it, I don't understand it. But that's what it's gonna be on his conscience. So there's no reason anyone's ever had to make it smaller. Now for the substance of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The Ukrainian war refugees can be helped with both word and deed. I don't want to underestimate the meaning of the word, but if the word isn't followed by action, often the word is very helpful. By giving today a vote of support, ladies and gentlemen, to this bill, you actually give more than 15 000 Ukrainians who worked in Estonia before 24 February 2022 the chance that they are not dependent, that they are not dependent on the Estonian taxpayer. Today, the Government of the Republic has temporarily, using the emergency clause, given them the opportunity to work until 31 May, but they will no longer have that opportunity after that. If we approve this draft, the same 15,000 .6,000 Ukrainians will indeed have the opportunity to continue their work in Estonia. Short-term work is currently possible for up to one year, with a draft approved for up to three years. So they can continue working, they will not become dependent, they will contribute to the Estonian economy and they will also pay tax revenue to the Estonian state budget. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I was sad to hear how critical it is about our employers. It really hurts to listen to that. I, ladies and gentlemen, do not remember another draft that would have had such broad support from employers. I don't remember that. In the press release of 4 April, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Founders' Society, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce have stated the following: "This is a vital draft for the sustainability of the Estonian economy, which helps to increase the competitiveness of Estonian companies on the global market and to ensure the creation and preservation of jobs in Estonia. Rapid processing of the bill would demonstrate the strong working capacity of the government in difficult times." Ladies and gentlemen, these are our largest employers' umbrella organisations together, starting from start-ups to... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U79	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U80	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U81	Please, three minutes! I'm sorry, waitress! Good fellows, there's noise in the hall in all the bench lines, everywhere. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yes, it is, of all people. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U82	Thank you. Indeed, these are business organisations, from start-ups to agriculture, in such a wide spectrum, all support and consider it important. And somehow we want to be smarter than them and we know what the real situation is in the labour market. I have repeatedly argued that one of the greatest challenges in Estonia is undoubtedly the ageing of the population on the one hand and the decline in the number of working age on the other. We're gonna have to make up for this gap somehow. Just sitting here criticizing and criticizing, we will not solve these problems. It's not the final solution, but it's a relief. This is not the final solution. We need to consider other reliefs from the problem that awaits us. But at least this is an important step, which is indeed very welcome from employers. However, this certainly does not mean any such paradigm shift in our labour market. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm gonna ask the manager for more minutes due to the interruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U83	I haven't interrupted a minute. It's 15 seconds away. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U84	There has been criticism that this draft does not have an impact analysis. That's not true at all. I very much welcome the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, who, in any of these more fundamental changes, has numerically pointed out the impact on the Estonian labour market. In numbers! And you're saying there's no analysis. Of course, the impact does not mean analysis yet, but it is clear from the day that Kristian Jaani did not take these numbers from the ceiling, but in fact very specific numbers have been given out, which very rarely happens. Why isn't it done? It's not because since often when you go out a number, it's still a little or more different from what you went out. And then it's good to criticize that you see, you said that number, but actually there's another number. So I very much welcome this particular impact on any fundamental change that has been highlighted. Another tiny line on the subject of the same military conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly in Leo Kunna, I remember that at second reading, the basic criticism was that the text of the draft could give the impression that the military conflict did not begin until 24 February. We wanted the best, we fixed it, we changed the wording, we kept the term'military conflict', knowing what we could expect if we had gone to improve the term. Urmas Reinsalu proposed to improve it, and I personally would have agreed to it, but knowing what followed it in the Chamber, we simply could not accept it. And'military conflict' on this, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, there is no legal definition. It's not there. It doesn't exist! "War conflict" is a general concept that involves war, aggression and whatever. So to say that'military conflict' does not reflect the situation that is taking place in Ukraine is not at all true. I repeat once again: read the explanatory statement, which speaks unambiguously of military aggression against Ukraine, Russia's military aggression in Ukraine. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a little unusual, but I would very much like to congratulate the excellent cooperation of the ministers of the two coalition parties, which has been carried out by Kristian Jaan and Andres Sutt. It is an excellent cooperation, an excellent teamwork, which has been done to make this draft a law at one point, and a very good pace of cooperation. This is one example of how similar complex drafts could actually be dealt with. Of course, I would also like to thank the group leaders Mart Võrguship and Jaanus Karilaidi, as well as Tõnis Möldri, who did very serious work during the second reading. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U85	Thank you. I keep asking for silence in the hall, there's noise in the hall. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U86	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have asked my procedural question if I had not seen Thomas Kivimägi's absolute lying here to the Estonian people, to the people in this very hall, when he said that impact analyses were done. We drew attention to the Constitution...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U87	I apologize, dear Kalle Grünthal! I'm asking for silence in the hall! I'm asking for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U88	We pointed out in the session that there is a lack of demographic analysis. We have pointed out that there is a lack of regional development analysis. We pointed out that one part of the security analysis says that there is no impact, but the reference to the defence police analysis says that there is a very large impact. Toomas Kivimägi admitted at this very hearing that yes, there are shortcomings. And now when I hear that, let's say it's all right, it's a lie to the slave. I propose: is it possible to replace Toomas Kivimägi with the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, because lying in this Chamber of the Riigikogu is not at all beautiful?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U89	Thank you. Lying's not pretty anywhere. If you want to replace someone somewhere, it is [possible] through elections in a democratic country. Procedural question, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I simply have the question that procedural issues have become substantive speeches. In fact, there was more than an hour of substantive speaking under the name of the procedure, and now it continues. Can other colleagues use it as a statement of substance or opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U91	Thank you. I think that procedural issues have become a completely new meaning since March 2019 in this Chamber. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U92	Thank you, President-in-Office. I'd adjust it. I would ask you, as your Presidency, to perhaps correct the previous rapporteur's claim that the term'military conflict in Ukraine' cannot be defined. I am saying that the term'military conflict in Ukraine' has long been defined, and that has been done by Russia at the moment when it started aggression against the Ukrainian state and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U93	Thank you. The renegade, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U94	Yeah, my name was mentioned. The only possible formulation of the current political situation would be: a) "Russian military aggression against Ukraine"; b) "Russian wide-ranging assault on Ukraine." These are substantive changes. It was clear from the beginning, everything else is sophistication. It was a dump, and it's gonna be a mess, and it's gotten worse. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U95	I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U96	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U97	I'm sorry, good waitress! Me and you, I understand, we're interrupting here. Fruit Savisaar, you have a question? (It is said: "Vilja Savisaar. ") Sorry! The fruit of Thomas, I apologize. Do you have a question? Please give me a hand. You're right for the procedure. Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U98	When will the President of the Riigikogu chair the meeting in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U99	I've been running it since 3:00 today. Andrei Korobenik, please, representative of the Estonian Central Party. And I'm asking that the time, the five minutes, start running again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U100	Thanks for this repeated opportunity! This amendment to the Aliens Act has matured a long time ago and, as always, certainly could have been better. But I think the result is quite good and I hope that the Riigikogu will give it its support today. The purpose of this law is indeed, as Toomas Kivimägi said, to speed up economic growth in Estonia. There are 20,000 people missing in the IT sector alone and Estonian universities are very good, but unfortunately they cannot fill this hole. It would be great if these 20,000 people were Estonians, but they're not. And in order to achieve this number, there are certain changes that need to be made. We are currently losing hundreds of millions of tax revenues, and as a result, for example, our pensions are among the lowest in the countries of the European Union. It's all because the money doesn't come out of the wall. Money comes from taxes, including labour taxes. And here we can direct policy to ensure that high-paid jobs come to Estonia, not to Lithuania or Finland, for example, so that our GDP and tax revenues increase, so that the standard of living of Estonia increases, rather than decreases. There is a great criticism here of the pay claim that 80% of the sector's average is too low. But unfortunately, the situation is that when you leave Harjumaa, the average wage goes down sharply. And there's such a closed circle that if the pay is low, the jobs can't be filled because the local people don't want to work for that money. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But if the jobs have not been filled, there will certainly be no increase in wages. [[It's buzzing in the hall.]] Getting out of that closed circle is the only way...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U101	Good waitress, I apologize to you. Both my voice and yours are too loud, it interferes with the workings of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U102	I guess this job is important. You can't argue with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U103	I ask that we honor the waitress. Thank you. Please, waitress! Keep going!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U104	To get out of this closed circle, we need to bring these jobs to the country, and that is why this bill is very useful. And I would point out, however, that this is not a very liberal draft. Because if today a person can come to Estonia for short-term work, he or she will have the opportunity to take family members with him or her. When this law enters into force, he loses this opportunity. A person can come here for three years, not for a year and a half, but he cannot bring family members to Estonia on the same basis. This actually makes working in Estonia less attractive to a certain group. So this is not a black and white law. But it makes Estonia's life better, it increases tax revenue. And I very much hope that the hall will vote in favour today. This is a very big job and we can move forward from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U105	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the Social Democratic Party Group Eduard Odinets. (Eduard Odines wants more time.) Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have reached the final stage of discussions on amendments to the Aliens Act, which will make the employment conditions of Ukrainian citizens, both those who started working in Estonia before the war and those who have fled from the war to Estonia more flexible as well as many other people who wish to take up work in Estonia. Some colleagues see the draft as a threat to Estonian language and culture, predicting mass labour migration and the occupation of Estonian people by cheap labour. Some colleagues see these changes as an opportunity to revitalise the labour market in Estonia and provide support to Estonian employers to alleviate labour shortages, while also actuating employability. But both sides will hopefully see the opportunity here to be a supporter and aider of Ukrainian refugees, who should not burden the Estonian social system, but find a professional application and contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. This is our fork, ladies and gentlemen. This fork, which has put us in a group of rival government departments to pick points. In fact, they've taken themselves into this fork. How else can we explain the staggering tactics and incomprehensible behaviour of coalition partners when dealing with the bill? This actually shows the coalition's failure to maintain normal political dialogue. Ukrainian refugees are used to serve the interests of their political games. Of course it would be good, ladies and gentlemen, if we had two drafts instead of one. We can get rid of that fork. Because obviously no one has a question of helping Ukrainian refugees to quickly integrate into the Estonian labour market. Socialists certainly don't. However, we also have certain concerns about the relaxation of wage conditions. In the same way the Estonian Trade Union Confederation wrote in its opinion to the Constitutional Committee: "The Estonian Trade Union Confederation supports the as painless integration of people exiled from Ukraine into the Estonian labour market and the treatment of all Ukrainian workers on an equal footing with Estonian citizens. However, we are of the opinion that there is no reason to simplify the current wage rules for all employees arriving in Estonia under the Aliens Act. [---] We propose not to change the remuneration requirements." Trade unions are, of course, right about their views. In the opinion of the Socialists, the Riigikogu should not dampen the debate about the wage conditions of foreign labour in fear of alleged mass immigration. This debate, of course, must be held. But when you're in a fork, it's very difficult to do it because emotions don't allow it. It is clear that, as a country, we must do something to secure our businesses with the workforce, but at the same time we must not hurt our own employees. Unfortunately, today's situation, where we need to resolve as soon as possible the issues of the recruitment of Ukrainian refugees, prevents us from having a sensible and thoughtful discussion about the conditions for recruiting the rest of the foreign workforce. The Social Democrats have their own proposals on how this could be done. We believe that wage criteria could be the result of sectoral agreements involving both employers' and employees' representations and where there is no rigid multiplier, whether 0.8 or 1.5 or 2.0. However, it was no longer possible to make such proposals, as the deadline for the amendments was November 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have solved this dilemma for themselves. The state of Estonia urgently needs to create the conditions for the recruitment of Ukrainian refugees. That is why we are ready to support the draft. However, this does not mean that in any case we are 100% in agreement with quite a number of other changes, in particular the relaxation of wage requirements in this form. Despite today's draft, the Riigikogu must continue to discuss the relevant provisions in order to find the best balance and the best solution, without undermining the wage conditions of our own employees, while at the same time creating reasonable wage conditions for workers coming from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U107	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin preparations for the final vote on the draft 241. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote draft law 241 amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on Granting International Protection to Aliens. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U108	With the result of 61 votes in favour, 30 against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens has been adopted as 241 laws. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U109	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. [[It's ringing the bell.]] The State Administration Minister's presentation of the implementation of the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" in 2022. The rapporteur is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Let me also briefly present the procedure for processing the report. This is due to § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab's presentation is up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions; a member of the Riigikogu may ask two oral questions to the rapporteur. Then there's the negotiation. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please welcome Jaak Aabi to the Riigikogu Chair as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U110	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The field of the Minister of Public Administration contributes mainly to achieving the objectives of the two areas of the action plan "Estonia 2035" of the country's long-term development strategy. The Ministry of Public Administration also has links with the achievement of a number of other "Estonia 2035" objectives, in particular by increasing the capacity of local authorities and reducing the balance between regional development disparities. I will start with our activities in developing a quality living environment. "Estonia 2035" aims to ensure that the living environment is responsive, accessible, high-quality and safe to everyone's needs, based on population changes and also on the needs of the green turn. There have been a number of positive developments in the area of planning. There are different sectoral interests in the planning process, which is why horizontal cooperation with ministries and agencies is important. Especially in recent years, we have contributed to this and it has certainly improved. Discussions on changes in the space around us are more comprehensive than ever. Several important plans have been put in place and are being prepared. The plan of the Estonian sea area has undergone a very extensive process pending the establishment. Municipalities are preparing modern general plans to support the quality of the living environment. This year we are preparing to launch a new national plan. Several country-specific plans for the development of roads, railways and energy infrastructure are underway. "Estonia 2035" has put great weight on a green energy economy. The Ministry of Finance, as the competence centre for spatial planning and local governments, has an important role to play in this regard. This year we are moving forward with a special plan for two countries, namely the Gulf of Livonia and the 5 Sea Wind Parks, with a special plan for electricity connections in the Baltic Sea, to the west of Saaremaa, with a special plan for electricity connections in the Sea Wind Park. I would remind you that these areas for the development of sea wind parks were, in fact, defined by plans already in the county plans. It is safe to assume that this year there will be additional requests for special planning by the state, which will be dealt with in the light of our general interest and benefits, in compliance with the law. In addition to planning activities at national level, attention must also be paid to the activities of local authorities. With the special plan of local government there are wind farms in five municipalities: Lääneranna rural municipality, Pärnumaa rural municipality, Pärnu city, Tori rural municipality and Saare rural municipality. The general plans of the local government are also planned and started with the special plans of the municipality in two municipalities: Alutaguse rural municipality and Põltsamaa rural municipality. In its general plan, the windmills are planned by Alutaguse Municipality, which has also initiated a special plan for local government. Eighteen municipalities planning to produce wind energy on their territory are still in the pre-planning phase. In order to support the activities of local authorities in the field of wind energy, we have taken the following key steps since 2019. The Ministry of Environment, Finance, Economics and Communications and the Environmental Board have designated contact persons to coordinate and address issues of wind energy. The purchase of North-East-Estonia and mainland-Estonia radars to reduce national defence restrictions has been agreed. The coordination circle has a local benefit instrument law. In addition to the above, the special plan for the permanent connection of the Great Strait will contribute to achieving the objectives of "Estonia 2035." This should result in an extension of the road, which reduces the time-space distance between Saaremaa and continental Estonia. All developed societies need different assets to enable development. Large infrastructure objects lead to the need for more mineral resources. In the Government of the Republic, we have initiated the Harju County Plan for Mineral Resources Thematic Plan, as well as the preparation of a similar theme plan in Pärnu and Rapla counties. With these thematic plans, the state receives a proper foundation of the location and availability of mineral resources, as well as information from landowners, or local authorities, on how to plan their assets or territory-related activities. In addition to the above, together with the field of construction, we have started a digital revolution in spatial planning. Within this framework, we will complete the regulatory framework, make planning data more accessible and improve planning and processing processes. Perhaps, in short, there is a planning database for the launch of which we hope that further developments will take place in the process of carrying out or processing the planning procedure. This will certainly provide up-to-date information on all plans in Estonia. This is important for the state, businesses, people and local authorities. I would like to draw your attention to another important issue in the area of living environment and public space development. In regions with a declining population, there is an increasing need to adapt the living environment to the number and needs of the population. In cooperation with the OECD, ministries and local authorities, an analysis "Adapting to the Wealthy Declination in Estonia" was prepared to adapt to demographic change. I would certainly like to point out that this decline has not occurred in the last few years, but has actually taken place for decades. It is simply our infrastructure and our possible living environment that are not adapted to the number of people living in different areas of Estonia. One of the consequences of this decline is the emptying and depreciation of housing in the regions, which we have thoroughly analysed over the last few years. A nationwide survey is coming up which, using various data, helps to map the scale of the problem in municipalities. This year, a pilot project will be completed to test, in cooperation with the three municipalities, different solutions for solving the problem of emptying apartment buildings. A new support measure for the restructuring of emptying apartment buildings is under preparation. Already this year it is planned to open an application to Ida-Virumaa and next year to other municipalities across Estonia. There are also legislative amendments that will make it easier for local authorities to restructure problematic apartment buildings. Honourable Riigikogu! Another major area for my responsibility is government administration. "Estonia 2035" aims at effective, coherent and smooth government. One of the objectives of the strategy is to develop an innovative, credible and people-centred state where the need for change is to increase the effectiveness of state governance. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other ministries, will implement changes that will help make governance more needs-based and flexible. In August last year, we reviewed the state reform agenda in the government and agreed on 38 actions that we would like to do practically yet with the government. State reform continues to be an important driver of administrative policy development so that, in the context of limited resources and growing expectations, state governance is effective and also sustainable. The "Estonia 2035" priority axis, the State Governance Action Plan, is highlighted as development needs, firstly, ensuring the unity of government and the smooth functioning of the state, and secondly, improving the quality and accessibility of state and local government services. The implementation of the "Estonia 2035" strategy is strongly supported by the general objective of the state reform: a uniform and effective governance of the state that takes into account the needs of the population. By implementing public reform activities, we want to achieve more effective and efficient public tasks, more high-quality public services, more flexible and less bureaucratic organisation of government and a relative reduction in expenditure, or at least prevention of their expansion. Several activities have been carried out in the framework of the state reform. Issues of transparency and clarity of the state budget have been addressed, with a new planning for the development of the basic state budget law. State-owned assets and entrepreneurship have also been reviewed as important activities. The decision of the Cabinet will continue discussions and possible decisions on the transfer or placing of state companies on the stock market. I call on you to think along and make proposals for these actions in order to shape an innovative, credible and human-centred state. In fact, there is a draft decision in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. I very much hope that we will be able to move forward with this, too, in the Riigikogu, because it would actually also be to give the government a specific input and guidance. Within the framework of the National Reform Action Plan, eight public institutions and three foundations have been restructured over the last few years. In August 2020, the Estonian Youth Work Centre, Archimedes Foundation, Education Information Technology Foundation and Foundation Innove started work; at the beginning of 2021, the Environmental Board was merged with the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. The Agricultural and Food Administrations was managed by the Veterinary and Food Board and the Agricultural Board; and the Transport Boards were merged by the Road Administration, the Maritime Administration and the Aviation Administration. These consolidations were very thoroughly prepared and, for some institutions, these processes did not end in the past. This time it was possible to carry out substantive analyses, to consider the whole structure and the functioning of these institutions, to find duplications and certainly support functions, and consolidation has, in my opinion, produced quite a good result. There was certainly also a review of the public services offered to make them clearer, more responsive and more accessible to the people of Estonia. It is still too early to assess how well all the restructuring has served its purpose. However, I would like to congratulate all the institutions and their staff who have gone along with these changes and are making every day efforts to create a new organisational culture and quality. Yet this year we plan to make a preliminary review of this or an initial analysis of it, at least by looking at how these consolidations have achieved their goal and whether they have achieved it. The "Estonia 2035" strategy sets out an application for the development of public services. Developing public services, improving their availability and consolidating support services are ongoing processes. The Ministry of Finance, with the help of foreign funds, has supported the creation of an EAS and KredEx joint institution, now the Enterprise and Innovation Foundation, a model of operation and organisation of services. We also support finding the most appropriate solutions for managing the state fleet so that public authorities can serve watercraft orders in a better quality manner. The European Social Fund's administrative capacity measure has been a valuable instrument to support reforms with a high impact. This includes a number of changes that make health and care services more people-centred in the field of analysis under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have also analysed the consolidation of the national authorities' computer workplace and server base services, which was brought to the realm of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications by setting up a state IT centre to ensure the reliability and security of the state's digital services. Under the direction of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the establishment of a national joint laboratory is planned to bring together the development services of laboratories in addition to the larger laboratories. The State Support Services Centre implements a pilot project to consolidate document management services and archives. This could be a step towards moving from traditional document management to information management services. In the framework of the state reform, activities have been carried out to make planning and spatial data more accessible, the topic of opening data and the event services programme have been developed. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is carrying a real-time economy project where, in cooperation with Statistics Estonia, opportunities are created to save time and money for business, state and citizen by replacing paper-based economic transactions and administrative operations with automated data exchange. The Ministry of Justice and the State Chancellery cooperate in shaping the environment for state co-creation and in shaping legislative clarity and inclusive process. The first prototypes have been tested and further development will take place. In addition to administrative changes, we are also modernising the working lives of civil servants. With regard to the pandemic, we have seen that it is possible to work from a distance in public authorities, which is why we continue to promote flexible working arrangements and teleworking and allow for or favour the establishment of public authorities throughout Estonia. With the support of the European Commission, we have successfully supported the development of the competence and quality of management of public sector leaders and employees. At the end of the European Union's funding in the near future, we must find the means to maintain and develop public governance and governance capacity in the public service. It is the competent managers and employees who implement the "Estonia 2035" guidelines and help to ensure uniform and effective government control in these difficult times. In the field of public procurement, the Riigikogu is in the process of amending the Public Procurement Act, with which we want to correct the shortcomings that have emerged in practice. In order to increase the transparency of public procurement, we launched a draft contract notice for the development of e-forms. In cooperation with our partners, we are preparing further solutions for the use of quality and green criteria in public procurement. We have received praise from our public procurement register, which is certainly at the forefront compared to other countries. Honourable Riigikogu! Thirdly, I would like to talk about local governments. The "Estonia 2035" National Governance Action Plan is of major importance at local level. In developing government, our goal is strong local governments. A large part of the activities in my area of government are aimed specifically at ensuring that the role of local authorities is greater, their capacity is stronger and public services are of high quality and accessible in every region. It is important to ensure that this is reflected in budgeting and in the consistent development of the country. A thorough review of the Local Government Organisation Act as one of the basic laws in the field is underway. After very long and in-depth discussions in the expert group on the Local Government Organisation Act in the last two years, we submitted a large draft of amendments to the coordination circle last autumn. One of the objectives of the draft is to increase the municipality's right of self-management, while the general principles of the local government's activities so far do not, in our view, require any substantial change. The financial capacity of the municipalities has so far been very good, especially in recent years. The financial figures for 2021 were the best of the times, despite the pandemic and the corona crisis. The state has increased the revenue base of local governments and strengthened their budgets with sectoral support in 2017‐2020. During the COVID-19 crisis and the energy price crisis, the state came to the aid of local authorities financially. During the war refugee crisis, the country is also supporting local authorities. At the same time, the financial autonomy of the municipalities is very low and tax autonomy is non-existent. In this sense, we are very different from those countries that we look at and who have set an example for us in developing our country, I am thinking of the Nordic countries here. The adoption of the Land Valuation Act has created opportunities for municipalities to decide on land tax rates, how to say, by current prices, rather than by 20-year-old prices. Further possibilities for increasing the financial autonomy of municipalities need to be analysed in the near future. We have launched my own government.fin.ee web application, which provides cross-cutting information about the state of public services provided by municipalities. This application is becoming a central tool to guide local governments towards better performance and provides public authorities with better opportunities to target different policies. Last but not least, I would like to address regional development issues, regional development opportunities and balancing the development of Estonia as a whole. We certainly also take into account the need to balance regional needs in the "Estonia 2035" strategy. As a basic principle, it is explicitly stated that everyone must have equal opportunities for self-realisation and participation in society, regardless of their place of residence. The indicator for keeping to this basic principle is the proportion of people living outside Harju County and Tartu County. The Riigikogu and the government aim to reduce regional disparities by 2035 and outside Harjumaa and Tartu County have settled in a larger part of the population than in 2020, when the remaining 13 counties accounted for 42.8% of the total population. The risks of concentration of citizens and entrepreneurship in individual cities are even more obvious to us after 24 February than before. The "Estonia 2035" strategy is implemented primarily through development plans and programmes in the field. Regional balance as a fundamental principle means that each minister must also take into account the impact on regional development when planning development in his area and, knowingly and intentionally, seek ways to increase the positive regional impact. A good example of the results of last year's work is the regional loan and surety products launched by KredEx for entrepreneurs, housing associations and homeowners. The country has set itself the goal of reducing regional differences, but without the involvement of sectoral policies and effective cooperation, it is not realistic. Moreover, a careful consideration of regional specificities in the implementation of sectoral policies will help to make more efficient use of public resources and to best exploit the untapped potential of the region in the interests of sectoral development goals. The strategy "Estonia 2035" highlights a number of regional development challenges that require a joint effort by the Riigikogu, the government and the ministries. I'll give you some examples. Life expectancy in south-eastern Estonia is over ten years shorter than that in North and West Estonia. The productivity of Estonian labour has increased, but regionally it has become even more uneven. The R &amp; D capacity of companies varies from region to region. The regional development of Estonia is also hampered by large regional differences in job supply, entrepreneurial activity, the size and value added of companies and the location of productive jobs. In Estonia, the number of uninhabited and in poor condition dwellings is increasing outside the centres. This includes one third of Estonia's construction heritage in an accident or poor condition. The changes caused by population decline and ageing are most affected by Ida-Virumaa, South-East Estonia and Central Estonia, as well as remote areas from the centres. In order to better coordinate and direct the activities of ministries in support of regional development, we have prepared a regional development action plan in 2021. The completed action plan will help to move towards the development goals of our general strategy "Estonia 2035," allowing us to monitor the current state of regional development and the development of tackling the root problems identified in the action plan. It will bring together the activities of the central government in the implementation plan for the next four years, which will have a significant impact on tackling the root problems of regional development. The results of the annual review and monitoring of the Regional Development Action Plan will be one of the cornerstones of the implementation of the "Estonia 2035" review to the Riigikogu in the coming years. In the work carried out last year to increase regional balance, preparations for the deployment of external funds for the period 2021-2027 gave a tone. The total amount of support for the RSF and the Cohesion Policy operational programme exceeds EUR 4 billion. The budget for specific regional measures in the area of government of the Minister for Public Administration is 257 million. In line with the "Estonia 2035" targets, we have focused on developing a regional business environment in cooperation with municipalities and solutions for adapting to declining population numbers to ensure the availability of high-quality services in 10 to 15 years' time. In cooperation with other ministries, we have developed a comprehensive package of subsidies for the fair transition from oil shale energy to Ida-Virumaa. In order to support the south-east Estonian labour market, investment support for companies in the region is precisely in the planning process. I come back to the fact that in order to achieve a regional balance as a fundamental principle of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, there is a need for participation in policies in different areas. I dare say that planning the external instruments of the new period is the process with the greatest regional impact last year and this year. I am thinking here not only of launching measures in my area of governance, but, above all, of the role and responsibility of other areas. The choices we make in designing these support measures will determine whether we, as a country, can reduce regional gaps in health, the labour market, the location of productive and highly paid jobs or research development. There are opportunities to better target the regional impact of measures and to be well-known to ministries. Depending on the bottlenecks, it is possible, for example, to limit the target area of the action, establish a regional budget allocation, determine different support rates or actions to be supported by regions, involve representatives of regions in the project selection. Such fundamental decisions have already been taken in a number of measures. By July, we will draw up a comprehensive overview of all measures relating to the challenges of regional development. I have repeatedly said in the Cabinet that every minister in his field must be the Minister of Regional Affairs. The Minister of Public Administration alone will certainly not be able to solve the problems of regional development. Happy Riigikogu ambassadors! I also call on you to be demanding and, if necessary, critical of the regional impact of sectoral policy decisions. Be quick to stay in the face of positive developments and objectives across the board, and certainly see the regional dimension as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U111	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu also want to ask. Aivar Chef begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you for a meaningful report. In your presentation, you also spoke briefly about the energy economy, the windmill parks, and everything else. Can you tell me when the government could come to the Riigikogu with an energy economy plan? Because, in fact, the whole regional economy and the development of the whole business in Estonia depend very much on the energy economy, just whether we use wind and solar parks, cogeneration plants, nuclear power, LNG liquid gas or oil shale energy. We do not have an agreement on the direction in which Estonia will proceed. There's talk of green energy, but there's actually an understanding that we're driving wood into the oven. Everything else is going to be halfway there, especially if... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Here in the last few weeks, a few weeks ago, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications said there was no need for a solar park. When do they come here with an energy plan from a regional perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U113	Thank you for your question. This is rather a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, I think. But I also said that such initial developments in this area must be envisaged in planning, both state and local government. I am pleased that the sea area plan is now ready to be established, which is behind a few other drafts that are being adopted by the Riigikogu. We've coordinated and synchronised it. As far as the longer view of the energy economy is concerned, one factor here is also the fact that by 2030 the European Union has set some higher targets than it had in the past. So this climate and energy plan, which we presented at the end of 2019, as far as I know, will definitely be renewed. And, of course, recent events. The shortage of energy carriers and the shortfall in capacity, which we began to sense already in the autumn, are, in fact, very painfully felt throughout the world and also in our region. The war launched by Russia in Ukraine, of course, also added to the problems. We know that for sure. The first quick steps we have taken to ensure this equipment, at least as far as some energy carriers are concerned. Unfortunately, the price of gas has also had a huge impact on the price of electricity in our region recently. But how can we overcome this mono-dependence, and what forms of energy need to be developed? Well, in earlier plans, they're all listed, so we need to look at these plans. Last week, for example, we also looked at how the Nuclear Enabling Group has done its job, whether we could not speed it up in order to get an answer to what other power controls are still possible in Estonia. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will come back to the government in June to present a broader picture of this whole forward-looking energy plan, which, in the light of recent events, also needs a certain correction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U114	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I believe you agree that rural development is essential for Estonia's development, because it ensures its preservation. Unfortunately, on Friday there was a meeting of the European Union Affairs Commission, where the government, despite the confrontation of the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, pushed through the support of a European Union directive that will bring together a housing fund in the periphery of Estonia. Please describe this process in detail how we are going to pull together a housing fund in the outermost regions of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U116	Thank you for your question. I do not know specifically what you discussed in the committee. One of the processes that I described in this report is that the shrinking population has not emerged overnight. For decades, urbanisation has actually taken place; it is a global process. In Estonia, this has also been due to the transition from one social order to another. I would remind you that in agriculture, we [often] employed 16 to 17 per cent of the working age population, and now we have 3% of the working age population. After all, all of this has affected rural areas, and it has created these gaps, that some regions have developed more quickly, that people are leaving elsewhere, that is also a demographic issue. It's a whole complex view. One part of what my authority has been dealing with in recent years is that we have carried out pilot projects, but at the same time supported certain things with European Union money. For example, when it comes to the central squares of the centres and the county centers, everyone asks what it helps. That's enough. If we tighten the living space left in the centers, it will certainly have a direct effect on whether people want to live there or not. So the living environment and the living space are so important. And it's definitely a housing issue. We are saying that there are half-empty apartment buildings left, but there is not much quality housing. There are no county centres, farther from Tallinn, there are no other centres. As I mentioned, some measures have been adopted here. I remember it took me years to get those things out of KredEx. Now they are, so the reconstruction of apartment buildings outside Tallinn, Harjumaa, and outside the Tartu city area is cheaper, the grants are higher and regional loans can also be obtained. Then KredEx will also provide up to 80% collateral for a bank loan in rural areas in case of renovation or purchase of a dwelling. So quietly, these measures have come, which also help to solve people's housing problems. But the problems are so big, there's still a long way to go. This project of empty apartment buildings didn't come, or the program didn't come out of a good life either. You remember when apartments were shown on Kohtla-Järve a few years ago. A person, two, three, four people can't live in a big apartment building anymore, because it's all turned off, right? Now we have just gone through this process with the municipalities. We have a certain kind of road map or guidance on how to deal with it. This is not an easy process, we have helped to go through it in three municipalities: Lüganuse, Kohtla-Järve and Valga. Valga has been very eager to deal with this subject. We now have certain tools. I also said that so from the Ida-Virumaa programme to continue its activities, 1 million are planned and 2 million are planned for Estonia next year. It is possible to support the replacement of property, expropriation, so that at least the worst houses where it is impossible to live, can be emptied and probably demolished, and those that are in better shape can then be reconstructed accordingly. So it should still seriously improve the quality of life in rural areas. But I'm telling you, it's a long way to go, it's the first steps left.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U117	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The "Estonia 2035" strategy aims to reduce regional disparities. You have a very good table behind this presentation, which talks about the situation in Estonia on very different topics. Here is a smart, active, healthy person and society, etc., etc., economy of course. In your presentation, you presented very well the measures that external financing is intended to take during the new funding period of the European Union. Of course, quite briefly, okay? But what are the most necessary measures for you to reduce these regional disparities? You have already talked about the housing economy, but other things that affect the economy, the living environment, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U119	Thank you for your question. In very detailed terms, I cannot describe all the measures, although I know what concerns, for example, the development or construction of the last mile, where the regional portfolios have been undertaken, rather than going out again from the region where life is more advanced either way. My goal has been through this regional development agenda. Why did I even start preparing it last year? In order for all areas to describe their activities. Not as we had described here in the 2015 Ida-Viru County Action Plan, so all the activities that were carried out across Estonia, a piece that was directed towards Ida-Virumaa, was put into that action plan. However, if it is uniform and somehow does not help or accelerate the development of this region in relation to other regions, it makes no sense to show such activities. We're building you everywhere, yes, maybe more in some places. And so on. The aim is that all these sectoral activities, measures which are also the new funding of the European Union, are described as a priority for the regions. I have also said that, when we compared these root problems with this regional development agenda, fortunately for the last five years, these gaps have not increased as much as before. In fact, even this policy, which has been done with the European Union's resources, has so far been prioritising it, although I do not think enough, which needs to be done more, has, however, worked if we look at the overall picture, then it has worked. But then again, let's say, if previously Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia had been drawn out, where these figures were the worst, then lately Central Estonia is about the same level. Due to the fact that Ida-Viru County and South-East Estonia are not so far behind, Central Estonia is, as if, lagging behind this development area. If you compare, frankly, all the indicators that have been shown there show that small differences in different topics or areas are very similar to all the regions in terms of its level of development, with the exception of developed regions, such as Tallinn and Harjumaa, Tartu city region, Pärnu can also be mentioned. But in general, most of the problems are more or less the same with this small, let's say, our specifics, we take Ida-Virumaa, and now we have to deal with them. At the same time, of course, one table that I promised to send, but I guess we did not send it yet, we also compared how money has been distributed from the European Union's national programmes, for example. It shows that Harjumaa and Tallinn's average county, if we simply compare per capita how much state and European money the country has placed, Tallinn and Harjumaa have received less than 50% per resident. So that's what we've done so far, we've prioritised these other regions. But again, there can't be a magic wand. All these same problems, be they connections, the Internet, housing, jobs, the development of entrepreneurship, precisely in creating the added-value jobs that we now have, say, in Ida-Virumaa, are, like, concentrated on this issue. But we have dealt with this within the framework of the South-East Estonia programme, some other such measures. So how do I say it? We have, like, tried it more than very effectively or with very sufficient resources. But we have this skill so that we can direct the development of regions very well in different areas, effectively. If there is more resources for this, I very much hope that the positive consequences will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U120	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question also coincides with the previous question. I'm not doing a very long introduction. The same services. We have had an administrative reform, but the capacity of municipalities for investment is clearly different. And the different options used, both national and European Union programmes, are subject to different requirements. Has there been such a discussion, or rather how you, as a minister, see that one municipal service covers the needs of another municipality, is it possible to extend these programmes in such a way that not only the municipality that buys the service in another municipality supports it from its own budget, but could also claim money from these programmes for the construction of the service, say, the same building that is located in the territory of another municipality? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There are certainly many examples, but this principle in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U122	Thank you. That's a good question. I guess we're here, especially after the administrative reform, always pushing for this county cooperation, that is to say that local governments are looking at this service more widely than only in their territory, whether it be an education or something else. After all, public transport municipalities also decide through public transport centres. There are many services that need to be done together. The development of entrepreneurship, too, or, let us say, precisely to create these jobs there and to create better jobs, we have set it up in the run-up to the municipalities in the county, and we have supported it financially. It is the uncapped money, the money of the county development strategy, to which we added three years ago a pretty significant amount, which is what can do these preparatory activities, work together to analyse, think of some projects. Southeast Estonia did an analysis of one of these pilots, where it makes sense, for example, to build industrial parks and in what way. And they got a pretty good result. It's been weighed over the whole region, not every municipality says that, uh, I'm just making an industrial park here, whether it's gonna work or not. But there are all thoroughly considered and these places, those centers where there is demand and need, where there are other services and where it would make sense to build these industrial parks, and the corresponding infra course. And that's the result. We have also talked about certain regional cooperation. The boundaries of the county often do not provide an answer to certain services that can only be arranged there. But the place of such regional weighing, the Regional Development Council, is now such a proposal for piloting, we would try in a region. I think that South-East Estonia or South-Estonia may be just one of the places where you can look at this picture a little bit wider. But, well, it's also in its own development. So county cooperation, I guess it's going the way it goes, right? Municipalities have a lot of say there, we can shove money or some guidelines or, let's say, help them do these things. But also, for example, the euro money now coming from the regional pot, or PO5, is planned so that the final decision-makers are together, they prioritise and put in line what is needed for the development of services or the development of the region, for the development of entrepreneurship, which projects are above. And I would like to remind you that local governments have also been able to prepare rural development strategies in addition to administrative reform, which will then continue to be updated, updated and adapted. So it's a difficult road, and there are definitely failures, but we've been helping and pushing this county cooperation all the time. These decisions must be made at regional level. I really hope it doesn't go back to sharing that me and you, you and me, but there's still some kind of analysis in the back. How's the hard question, isn't it? Don't want to talk in detail about the school network? Well, for example, county, it's not one municipality, it's a county. It is not easy to make decisions, it is difficult to make decisions, there must be a decision about what we are going to reconstruct, what we are going to build, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U123	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U124	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Minister, thank you for this review. One of the five major goals of the "Estonia 2035" strategy is indeed a good living environment. As an architect and a planner, of course, I sense that this area is still a little... Perhaps we cannot yet understand the effects of how widespread they are. You spoke here about the competence centre for spatial creation, yet we hear that local authorities still feel that we have very uneven planning skills. And there are also recommendations in this same OECD report to correct cross-cutting administrative management and levels of governance. You and the previous Minister for the Environment, I know, were arguing about this spatial creation or MARU, the Land and Space Board. Have you, perhaps, reached an agreement with the new minister on where it might be located? I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U125	Thank you for your question. This MARU is a really good question. Maybe the Land and Space Board. I'm more familiar with this initiative on the side of space creators. If we go into areas, whether the Earth Authority is supposed to be somewhere, let's say, the platform we're going to do this on, then there's still an interagency dispute between the silo towers, where and what. I'm sorry it's happened. I will be honest, yes, I have not been able to break this political contradiction. Maybe these plans haven't been, I don't know, that good either. Then I'm gonna have to complain about who I analyzed it. But we have tried to strengthen this spatial development with our own forces in the planning process, because in the administration of the Minister of Public Administration there is a planning department that also develops policies in this area, planning law, planning, database, and at the same time there are regional administrative services where I say that there are 2.5 real planners. Well, there's more, we've gained weight now. We've gathered leaders, and we've taken more planners. But more space-building and planning skills are needed. Because, as I was saying, we have a lot of plans. Except the country's special plans have to be transported as a process, and that's what my planners and department have to do. There are often contributions from other ministries, whether from the Ministry of the Environment in the form of research or from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. One thing is the luck of the process. This, too, requires a resource. Much bigger, in my opinion, the deficit is counseling local government planning, precisely in terms of space creation. We're trying to do our best here anyway. It is likely that the Ministry of Culture, as regards the view of architects or space creation, should be seated once more in order to do what is practically possible if MARU is not to be reached as quickly as possible. At least at the moment, I intend to submit an application within the framework of the state budget strategy, because we simply cannot carry these special plans of the state, advice on the general plans of local governments and the whole thing any more. There's a shortage of resources here. And if we want these developments to ever come... It is now being asked, however, why are we not ready for those places where wind power can be produced either on land or at sea? Well, that's a question of your own. I don't think there was any developer pressure so far, now it is. The price of electricity was too low. Now the price of electricity is worth it. But that was my one comment. We've been working on it anyway. Perhaps we should have dealt with more and more resources, but now it is clear that more resources are needed there. I'm sure I'll try my best to increase this competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U126	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unlike the two previous introductions, in the fields of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Social Protection, you stand out in the positive sense that you have also included a table of metrics in your review. Unfortunately, it is only for one of the four areas, but in any case it is worthy of praise and praise. It's a very good table and very concise. But now my question. What about the other three areas? Hasn't such a table been made for the other three areas, no plan? And if there is, perhaps in the same key that you have described this regional development, I will say once again: it is very good, perhaps you could try to describe the first three areas in some way. Or is it possible, for example, to simply send us an overview, as you have done this last one?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U128	Thanks for asking. That's a good suggestion. As we did the regional development action plan, in this process we took out all the statistics that could be taken. It's not easy either. Regional statistics are very difficult to obtain. In most cases it is based on NUTS or, let's say, what is definitely required for Eurostat data, Statistics Estonia is producing statistics on those regions that are NUTS III regions, but unfortunately there are even fewer statistics for counties. Here it comes out, in response to why this statistics are needed. It is necessary, otherwise it is very difficult to make decisions unless there is a comparison or a base. We have done different things, there is not such a table where these metrics are, but, let's say, in public reform activities or in public service, we monitor different things, such as civil servants' salaries in different institutions or employees' salaries, and we analyse it every year. Here, too, about the public service report, so it's pretty well mapped out. So there is not only one field, there are others as well. But it's a good idea! In planning developments, it would always be necessary to look at the situation that is currently taking place. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U129	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U130	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You are saying here that a new round should be made with the merger of local governments [the topic] and the carrot you have been discussing since 2025, a financial carrot. Well, we have seven municipalities in Tartu County, three in Jõgeva and more than three in some places, but in some places there is only one. How big is this cookie, you've been discussing to bring together the big estates like Saaremaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U131	Thank you for your question. Well, we don't have this exact draft... It is important that there has been this reflection that some already require the next state administrative reform. We are in government coalitions, with the previous EKRE and Fatherland and, in fact, in the previous one, we have said out, and also in this coalition, we have actually decided that no one is planning any forced administrative reform for the time being. I think that's right, too. It is necessary to organise life and services as well as possible within the limits that have now been drawn up as a result of the administrative-territorial reform. The skills have increased, the wallets have increased a little. You could say that. We also raised the revenue base. It is initially proposed that, by 2025, in view of the fact that then the next local government elections should be brought back to accession. Well, it's to support a voluntary merger. I don't remember the exact formulas, but I think that 100 euros per capita was taken into account when the two municipalities join. It was also considered whether to support the county, as Saaremaa almost is, although there is not only one municipality, there are a few more, from Saaremaa, right, Saare County, let's say so. It's a question of choice. I had to ask this question again in the context of the country's budgetary strategy, in the autumn. I went to the office and introduced this proposal. If the government considers it necessary, this amount, which is also difficult to predict, will be planned for several municipalities to join in 2025. I am not very enthusiastic that they are madly present across Estonia, but I have heard that in some places, however, these plans are already being invented. I think it would definitely encourage this accession. This merger is not an end in itself. The same question that Anneli Ott asked about is that cooperation is important if there is cooperation on various services or editing, and a new municipality, a larger municipality, is born in this cooperation, so it could be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U132	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for this 27-minute and 29-second presentation. There was a lot to hear, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. My question actually concerns the broader view and this view is 'Estonia 2035'. This view is the next Riigikogu elections. This view concerns general legislation in this Chamber and the problem that regional development is often not predominant on these issues. What I think is a problem, and that's what's causing this ever-increasing difference at the end of this table. That's my question to you. You've been a local government leader, a so-called man from a rural area, in the midst of problems, life itself. What are the three legal and most important developments that the Riigikogu should consider after the next elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U134	Yes, thank you! Times and houses, the year was probably 2022 around when I here, with the support of an interested party from my group, wrote down the Regional Development Act. There hasn't been one so far. So here's a thought for you. I've been practically trying to solve things. And this regional development agenda, I cannot read these laws right now, what should be there and how sectoral policies should take this into account. These beautiful words are probably in all the development plans. But, in fact, why did I focus practically on a regional development agenda? It's a practical document. Yes, it is based on the objectives and metrics of "Estonia 2035," but it is a very practical document that can be reviewed every year before the budget, to see whether the areas have fulfilled the promises they have made there and to coordinate this action, right? Because in the action plan, when all these activities are planned together, you can see how they work and can also measure a little bit, right? Then there's a picture. It was my practical choice. But if anyone would like to write down the Regional Development Act, then the strength to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U135	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's not the first time I've heard this report either. But I can tell you, good review, thank you for that! But we were talking about consolidation of institutions. At the end of last year the combination of the private forest centre and KIK was a good hunter of passion. Since they have such different goals, it is very difficult for me to see its effectiveness. What's the status now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U137	Thank you for asking, but you should ask the Minister for the Environment. I think that's still an idea. I don't know if the analysis was done, that's what they had to do. I don't know any more at the moment. I don't think it's moved on as far as I know. At least my assistance to the State Administration and Civil Service Department is in my administration and usually we help to carry out these analyses or at least provide financial resources without being asked for.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U138	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I do not know why a great deal is expected in the Estonian country that the merger of institutions will solve all the problems. Well, it doesn't. We in the counties know very well that this cooperation is now behind saying that the person on the ground, the official who is there, has no decision-making power, must decide from Tallinn. That's where these things usually fall. But now, during this refugee crisis, if I have been walking around Estonia, Pärnu and everywhere else, the same story is said about the corona crisis, so that we really need rural governments. We no longer have this cooperation where the state and local knowledge come together and where competence or knowledge persists. They can be created temporarily. A country based on a region will, like, be based on larger regions, but that is not the way to solve this problem on the ground in the region. Can you tell me what your vision is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U140	Thank you for your question. In fact, a county crisis committee may also be set up on a voluntary basis if the municipalities so wish. And they have also been working together in this form during crises. One of the lessons that came from this South-Estonian storm, we remember here a while ago, a few years ago, I think, which came just before the next crisis, was that it is absolutely necessary to appoint the coordinating authority that is in charge of this crisis cooperation there. I think that lesson was pretty good that time. When the corona crisis came, I think half a day they looked at each other and they immediately realized that the Health Board didn't have the resources to transport and coordinate the crisis in the regions. The task of regional crisis management was assumed by the Rescue Board, which regulates cooperation between local authorities and local authorities. There was also a very clear exchange of information and guidance. The State Chancellery here led this system, which, through the rescue agencies, arrived regionally. I don't know if bringing back the county governments will help any more. In the case of crises, this may help to improve the work of the Regional Crisis Committee. It has now been tested through various crises. And it works pretty well, to tell you the truth. Take off your hat in front of the Rescue Board, because the force structure is still the one who puts things in order quickly and coordinates. I think it's necessary. Just as in the case of refugees, the PBA took over and made it clear who was doing what. It's falling into place. There are a lot of problems, I know, but all the countries are struggling with these problems. I was just talking to the Lithuanian Minister and, frankly, they say from that point of view that Estonia has done quite well with regard to issues relating to refugees. I'm not in favour. In fact, in a good way, the county government should be that local government in the county. There they could be more ambitious about the development of the county, because I'm saying, we've been pushing all along, we've even given it more money, but everywhere it doesn't work very well. I might have to wait a little longer. Or the regime of the European Union, we say that you have to say it yourself. There are conditions, there are frames ahead, but you must tell yourself how you will develop a service, where you need these investments, and together you will decide. You're gonna do the county development plan together, you're gonna have to decide together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U141	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U142	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! Perhaps the question of Andres Metsoja in the maggots, indeed, what could be the core of the problem or one major change? My focus is on a high-quality living environment so we can get there. I think one problem is that we do not exactly have a development plan in this area. And the development plan will be followed by an action plan and will be followed by money to deny it. Yeah, I get it. It's all over the place. But what has prevented you from doing so? Since such a topic has been going through, perhaps from the point of view of the government, you will be able to shed light on where this development plan for a high-quality living environment is stuck today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U143	Thanks for asking. When we formed this government coalition, then in negotiations and later in discussions between the ministries, which specifically concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the construction part, for example, and the construction sector, we agreed that the national plan, "Estonia's national plan 2030+" is, in my opinion, its title, has fallen into the way of time. In fact, within this framework, it is possible to do what content this development plan for the living environment should take. Now it is a question of decorating it. We are already preparing for the renewal of this country-wide plan. It is natural that there are different topics. How do you put all this in a normal puzzle so they can be reflected in this country-wide plan? In any case, we have agreed that this topic of the development of the living environment will be reflected there. It is such a broader process, it is an inclusion process, as we know, and changes are already needed there. We know that for certain things, whatever, even for the development of infrastructure, the challenges of the green turn are what we need to renew this nationwide development plan. Within this framework, attention could also be paid to this living environment, certainly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U144	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U145	Thank you, Minister. In fact, here is one suggestion: could we start writing a book on the history of re-independence Estonia's regional policy? Because there have been so many details and nuances. I remember some things that were councils for settlement until today, which measures have been used. And actually, in order to go into the future, you should look at the past. I'm from a historian's background, so I kind of have a little of those kinks. One such subject, where there is some part of me, and which has gone quite well, is now this disunity program. And now, with regard to broadband, the counties have been asked about the views of the municipalities on broadband. Take it or not, that money's pretty big, which they're gonna give up until 2027. But if you look at what it can do, it's far from what's needed. For example, do you not use a distributed programme model with a higher level of ownership in order to overcome this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U146	Thank you. I'm going to answer that first part first. Ivar, if you're gonna write this book, I can write a long chapter on "Monofunctional settlements in the winds of history" about Võhma City and the meat factory. Anyway! But as far as the last mile is concerned, what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is now planning is certainly a stronger regional view than it used to be, the earlier ones. And I hope that this time it will somehow spread out more evenly across Estonia. Of course, this money is far from covering all that is needed. With the disunity program, I've had these thoughts too, whether or not to bring in more. You might want to consider that. We've at least managed to make sure that otherwise I went every year to ask for more money, there were 1.2 million, but now it's almost 3. At least I've put all my available resources there. Whether or not the three would be able to solve some kind of Internet connection somewhere out there, it might not be a cable, maybe some over-air improvements, you might think. I have also thought about that, perhaps by looking ahead to the budgetary strategy, I do not think that money will be poured out in this way. But maybe in the same money that's in there right now... Because there are also signs that we have now allowed the counties to move money between these local programmes, and in some counties even this dislocation programme has been raised to other programmes because there is no demand. In the same other county, this demand is so high that other programmes are increasing the spread of settlement. There should be a little more depth in which counties there are... Maybe give them a chance to set themselves up. If that is necessary, it is possible that, if you find that it is necessary, to provide a framework for how to do it, then perhaps let the county authorities decide for themselves whether or not to add such a thing to it, some kind of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U147	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U148	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. On my part, too, the respect for the first real report. Previous colleagues have been joking here with 40 lines, summing up, or 70 lines. So this is the first serious report. But the question. These indices are numerous and I have looked at them, let us take one example: the economic, military, global visibility of Estonian tourism and culture. And we have the goal of achieving index 89 by 2035, now the last 85. But at the same time again I see that 2019 was this economic, military and tourism visibility as early as 89. What happened in the meantime? As early as 2019, we had the result of 2035 and then suddenly a decline occurred. And what do you think that was last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U149	Thank you for your question. I should look at this exact index and see what it was and why it was like that and how much it's risen. I can't tell you how to move. Well, there are different indices that measure different things. But if we agree this way that I'm going to give you a separate answer for this index and these changes in time, then maybe that's fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U150	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A job is one of the main reasons for moving away from rural areas. I mean, either the lack of a job that matches skills or the amount of salary. Unfortunately, jobs are not affected so much by administrative reform, by merging or separating borders, but by the question of how entrepreneurship is doing. You've done very well in your ministry. Unfortunately, what affects life most in rural areas, and the money that affects regional inequality, is what affects the development of entrepreneurship. When you look at the funding for EAS, you read beautiful numbers here, you can see that 70% of the funding for EAS has rather come to Harju and Tartu County. Tell me how to break the resistance of this government partner so that regionally this business money will be distributed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U152	Thank you for your question. In this sense, I cannot say anything wrong about the partner that the long-planned measures aimed at the rural area of KredEx, the more favourable measures taken by apartment buildings in the rural area as a crisis measure, were already able to take place in the previous government. But for example, this KredEx guarantee on the mortgage loan we were unable to do. In this coalition, we did it. I think it helps a lot of people out there. But the general comparison, yes. Why did I deal with KredEx for years? Because the first thing I showed them was that 85% of their subsidies reached Harjumaa and Tallinn. And then I proved that now this practice should definitely be changed. The first excuse is that there is no ability anywhere else to pursue. I said that then this capacity must be created, with various reforms, and also with administrative reform, this capacity has increased. It is also true with entrepreneurs that EAS must go there. After all, we have these MAKs and other places where counseling and, let's say, the attractiveness of supposing different kinds of money. Well, then we did the applied research program, so I pushed it through to make a regional light first. Nobody at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications understood where those developers were going to be, who would be doing these pilot projects in applied research. Turns out it was. But we didn't put it out for one competition, we gave it to the region first. And as far as it came, it was supported. That's what you're supposed to do, and you can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U153	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It seems to me that one of the biggest problems facing Estonian counties continues to be the development of the customer's capacity. Perhaps we cannot keep the Estonian state on this leash that development documents, strategy papers, plans we order from the private sector. This is one possible solution, but having the customer's ability is crucial, strategically speaking. It is good that we are taking a step forward in the direction that we are now starting to decide on the objects that we are financing on the ground. This is definitely a big step forward. But is the state also planning to move forward in order to eliminate the distribution of funds prepared by county according to the number of inhabitants? Because if we don't develop competence on the ground, we don't work through new strategic directions, even in the context of a green turn, then we don't really know what we're getting or what we want. Are we going to give more money for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U155	Thank you for your question. We don't give real residents by [number]. I have made one comparison here: Harju-Tallinn has received less by the number of inhabitants, in previous periods already. But as far as competence is concerned, I guess it's improved a little in time. I think that when we talk about local government, in fact, this administrative reform, the administrative-territorial reform, which, although accompanied by an increase in the revenue base, has certainly improved things. But we're not just talking about local government. Businesses also need better advice, how to say it. One thing I can say. I told you a couple of years ago that I have a great desire to make this apartment building from the REKK program where the rural area can be made on better terms. Then I told the local authorities: Now get your feet out of your belly, already. But in the end, when we did this program or created these more favourable terms, we still couldn't get it done. That's the tricky part. But now everyone's already working, so the development is noticeable. It proves again that even if you show up the specific money, everyone's gonna move. There are different options: management companies can deliver housing associations, municipalities themselves, if they have officials. And quietly it goes. Fortunately, we will also have money in the next funding period. But often, yes, competence emerges. One way or another. But there's gotta be a national view. Whether these MAKs or those structures that the state has or that exist with local authorities, we need to see whether they work or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U156	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U157	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, You have pointed out in your review that you have developed a comprehensive oil shale energy exit package, or plan. We know that, under changed security conditions, our green turn solutions are not what we planned, although this does not mean that we should not pay more attention to wind energy or renewable energy, but we must definitely reconsider oil shale energy, at least in the short term. We have not carried out a socio-economic analysis of our green turn. Could this be one reason why we must, in any case, rethink our green turn completely? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How will you now look at this question in the new security situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U158	Thank you for your question. Those current questions we've still decided on as we go along here. For example, the 1000 mega that the previous government decided to reserve, we have basically decided to extend it in order to provide certainty to Eesti Energia that it must also maintain this power. This does not mean that boilers or blocks are just ticking there, that they need repair, renovation, maintenance and so on. So I'm sure this decision has been made to keep this option in place. In the long run, I believe, it is still topical, but it is very much in the future. From fossil fuels, especially in energy production, the whole world is trying to get out of how someone succeeds. Europe has set more ambitious targets here. But everybody's having trouble. In the short term, there is nothing to do and there must be something to do, but if we look at longer goals, we still want to plan funds for a fair transition fund in order to create new jobs in the region of Ida-Viru and to mitigate socio-economic risks. Fortunately, the resources of this programme come at a very good time, because in fact, this war is also affecting the region of Ida-Viru quite strongly. It's just that he's closest to Russia, and yet these certain supply chains, certain materials, some business relations have been closer there, just even transit through the Port of Sillamäe and so on. So there, unfortunately, people will be unemployed because of this, too, but war is war, it's the price of war. And we must then, by other means, help these people and create new jobs in the key to a green turn. I think it's possible to get out of it, but you shouldn't talk about it so it'll happen tomorrow. It is not worth freaking people out or creating insane negative emotions. We have made this our goal, but in the meantime everything else needs to be developed to replace oil shale energy. There are still all kinds of questions about oil. Whether it could be fit as a raw material for the chemical industry at all, no one has yet finally responded. So when he's being thrown into the sky on those ships, he does produce a lot of greenhouse gases. But if you use him for another purpose, it might not be that way again. So I never wanted to say that it was exactly this year, and now it's over. Life, unfortunately, is very changing, especially in the present environment. So it's still a goal. But as soon as we get to it, I don't know what to say right now. The whole issue of energy is also relatively confusing in this region. We have to make sensible plans here, anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U159	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would also like to thank you for a very good and thorough review and for the materials that we had to use that you had added as an analysis. My question concerns social protection. Since you yourself have been Minister of Social Affairs, I think that this is also a matter close to your heart and you will probably follow it as Minister of Public Administration. After the accessions, the municipalities became bigger, but a lot of people complained that sometimes the aid was more distant. I'm sure you've analyzed the services that local authorities offer. There will be such a feeling that such good local governments, who create services themselves, will be punished afterwards. Others come with certain projects and opportunities. It is important that they are similar across Estonia. But very often they are project-based, that when the project ends, the service will also be lost. It's not good in a human sense. Have you analysed this in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U161	Thank you for your question, my dear colleague. No in-depth analysis has been carried out. There is this one platform where we are, in fact, increasingly able to evaluate these services. My own government.ee caused a lot of confusion and questions at first. But we've been going through these basic data all the time, and they're going to do it right up to interviews with people, and that's a pretty good estimate. I think those who were still busy and struggling... Well, I understand you mean the money from the European Union Social Fund, which was intended for the development of services. It didn't run off on the sidelines. I think that at least these things were thought out more properly and better, of course there was extra money for the services. All social services, if we have also followed this page of my own government.ee, I dare say that, thanks in many ways to the Ministry and with the help of the European Union, these services were developed. But let's say, still, the sign is that a little bit goes for the better. There's a lot to do. I'm not saying it's all done. Such an analysis, which concerns the different services of local governments, could perhaps also be carried out in greater depth or carried out in at least one area and compared. There's some initial picture there, I'm sure. But you could also look in depth there, and that could also be provided, for example, by the Minister for Social Protection, we can do it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U162	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U163	Thank you. My colleague Heiki Hepner here touched on the oil shale exit package. In this respect, I look here at the fact that in the table of indicators of added value it is competitively highest. What could be the actions that do not bring this profit to a very low level so that it does not go down to the very bottom? A few things, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U164	Thank you for your question. Merry, I think you mean that the value added in Ida-Viru County is pretty high there somewhere in the table. Well, he's really based on energy, on the chemical industry. Well, even if the salaries are relatively high there, we all know, and the main concern that we are trying to solve with a fair transition plan, well now we also see that, in fact, those who are listed at the unemployment fund are highly educated people, but they do not go on a very low salary, on a low-paid job, which also does not require, say, educational preparation. Okay, that's where the language problems come in. I have not been so overoptimistic that we can do something, but to be honest, if we have been through the preparation of this fair transition plan for a year and a half now, I have hopes. If we target this European money correctly, it is mostly for the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs. The projects that have even gone through the government office, such as the IPCEI hydrogen technology projects, where we also have the possibility to grant State aid in a greater way and which we can probably also support from the fair transition plan, are, for example, the development of hydrogen technologies. The two developers, who are in the consortium with the respective companies from other EU Member States, are planning this development in Ida-Virumaa. They're planning for Ida-Viru County. Well, there have to be pilot projects, and when does it get to production in particular, doesn't know. But there are a lot of interesting Estonian entrepreneurs in this process who have actually come up with different ideas that they would like to experiment with. Yes, this money also helps a little, because it is possible to get a little bit more support from this fair transition plan, these programmes and measures than usually from the Euro programmes for entrepreneurship. I very much hope that there will be interesting solutions and interesting entrepreneurs who will make their own production there. And that, in itself, is what brings its added value. There will be jobs where this level of pay is at least the same as that of energetics or chemists, I hope, even higher. And frankly, from the other end, the shortage of labour in Ida-Virumaa is facing. We are saying that there is unemployment, but there is actually a shortage of labour. Those are two problems that meet somewhere. Perhaps those who are unemployed will not find the job they would like. And here we must try to solve it within this scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U165	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U166	Thank you. Dear Minister, I read in this overview from the state administration that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other ministries, is carrying out changes that help to make governance needs-based. We know that there are several areas in Estonia where public services are less accessible, where there is no internet connection and where public transport connections are very poor, especially in sparsely populated areas. Maybe now you'll tell me what's meant by it. What does it mean to make governance more needs-based? What are the regions where there is no need for governance in Estonia, and what do you think it contains?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U167	Thank you for your question. What I can describe, perhaps by some examples, has been taken into account. For people, no matter where they live, an e-service is sufficient, part of it is not enough, but a service hall is needed. It raised a lot of questions, as we recall, here with one agency or agency. Well, it's gotta be balanced. This needs-based approach is that we do everything we can to ensure that the people of Estonia in any region receive the state's services as best as possible. Can we ensure that in Tallinn and, let's say, somewhere where I say? just as quickly and easily accessible to the public service in Antslas? I think that e-services and the development of the digital state are still leading in this direction, that is what we are trying to do and we have done. Need-based means to provide these services and the quality that is actually needed, I would say briefly. But at the same time, we know that there are financial limits everywhere again. We've made these budgets. Then the third component must be money. Perhaps this effective government will come up with more. It's not a very easy formula for how to do this, but that's where we're going anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U168	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U169	Thank you. That's what I thought, and I was afraid you'd answer that way. It is good to give an example of Viljandi right here. In the area of the Ministry of Home Affairs, this is the service of people that you have been asked questions about in this hall and in Question Time. The Ministry of the Interior has reorganized the service of people online in such a way that the number of service days has been reduced to a few or three weeks, and, see, statistics show that people have started to do more on the Internet and the need is getting lost. If you reduce it again, the need will be even smaller, and so it will be, this need-based governance. But I have a question about political decision-making. The state reform does not say anything about government coalition agreements and ministries with several ministers. How do you feel about that? In fact, the country is governed by coalition agreements, which are not the result of any development plans. Also give an assessment to ministries with several ministries. How do you think they work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U170	Thank you for your question. I've got a lot of work to do. I'm in one of those ministries too, aren't I? I have not talked much further here today about what it contains, although on the basis of areas you have seen the portfolio of the Minister for Public Administration, only I have not yet had time to talk about everything. It is a question of choice whether there should be two ministers in the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, I've got plenty of work to do. I think the Minister for Public Administration's portfolio is necessary. It's my personal vision. I think it is necessary, it is a little over the towers' view, which concerns both government administration, government administration and various processes. Is that what the Minister of Finance is doing? Is he gonna be able to do that with his other things and business? I don't know. As far as these ministries with two ministers are concerned, the activities and objectives are still sectoral. I cannot judge whether two ministers will lead to this goal faster or slower. That's the deal. As we know, this is usually also a political agreement when it comes to putting the government together, how many ministers there are, where they are, etc. I can tell you that the current government is doing such a planned job. As we know, previous governments also wrestled with crises, while you had to do your substantive work. This government is not easy. Many officials have a double job, ministers have a double job. Honestly, you don't complain about unemployment. I think it's my personal assessment. It's not bad. We've done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U171	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U172	Thank you very much. I will also take advantage of my second question to ask your personal opinion, because it is very important. Namely, the subject of transport, getting a job, getting a doctor, getting to a county centre, etc. At present, it is completely free or partly free of charge in very many municipalities. What's your vision? Does it have to be preserved? Because there is also the opposite view that this money could go somewhere else and free transport must disappear. I know the Centre Party has said that free transportation came to stay. So, what's it like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U173	Basically free transport where it is, right, it's in cities or counties, should stay. I don't know why they criticize it so badly. In fact, if you ask the person in the county who works at the center, [he would say that] it is quite a support for him that he is able to work peacefully for a month and does not have to spend any extra time doing so. We know that there is no point in hiding that, as a rule, there are jobs in rural areas that do not offer such a high salary. Families with children and so on, right? So it's definitely a lot of support and he should stay. Now, this development I've been waiting for is happening. Perhaps the issue of demand transport. I think it needs a pretty serious look. Pilot projects have been carried out, for example in Saaremaa. And under the side of Tartu, Vorbus or where it was present, it has been tried. I think it would be a very good tool to combine public passenger transport with demand transport in some respects. Perhaps there is no point in it being such a bad comparison, but it is a bus that is shaken through villages when there are not many passengers there at the time. It's a network issue. However, where there is a very large dislocation, demand transport is a means of transporting people to regular transport, for example, it does not have to be the case that a taxi drives right to that destination. And today's solutions have been proposed. Let's say the day before I say in my mobile application, see, I have to go from here to there, and I can figure this out. I do not rule out that somewhere, for a service that is already like a comfort service, there may be some small own contribution. But surely it must not be put entirely on the landman's side to pay for himself. Then just no one's driving again. But I do see the possibility of development in demand transport. I know some people are pessimistic and think they don't know if it's gonna help and if it's not gonna break down the current transport system. But I think it can add value to the countryside. Well, I still give the example that I was in Finland in the early 1990s, and not the bus took the children to school, but the taxi picked up the three children from the village. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U174	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much for your answers and your presentation. No further questions. Thank you. I would also like to thank you personally for showing activity and allowing two questions. There has been a more than that, you certainly don't know, you have so many things to do, a big debate, how many questions are here, just in view of the "Estonia 2035" strategy. You said that two questions could be asked. I also thank you for coming to the Riigikogu, and I think that the debate was therefore much more meaningful, because the members of the Riigikogu could ask their questions. Thank you. And now the negotiations. We've had a lot of discussion here, too. I know that Helir-Valdor Seeder has raised this issue several times, so why can't everyone negotiate here? So it is, as the law now states, that only the representatives of the political groups. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets. Please! [[Lauri West Forest is asking for more time.]] Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to talk about two main reasons why people move away from small towns and rural areas and move to large cities. These [causes] are jobs and home availability. We had a discussion about jobs here in advance, we listened to the Minister too, he talked about how the money is distributed in Estonia. I should say that one of the money, the money of the European Union and this money, which is aimed at supporting entrepreneurship and which is one of the biggest pots in the European Union, there at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, is not regionally distributed in such a way as to support the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of jobs and the development of jobs in rural and small towns. The problem is not that we do not have jobs. The problem is that we either have too little pay or no skilled work there. That's what finally makes people move. At first, a lot of big cities or larger areas are driven back and forth, but eventually they get tired and move away. And that's a shame. That's too bad! We have raised this issue quite a lot in this Chamber over the last few years, including amendments and drafts, but there has been no change. If other money planning has been done relatively well in the case of euro money, in the case of new measures, even the same respected minister of public administration in his own sphere of government or in the social sphere, this regional distribution has been taken into account. But what has the greatest impact on Estonia, which concerns jobs, is unfortunately not being done there. I don't understand why they don't want to, but they don't. So, in the end, we can still see that a small enterprise is being transferred to Estonia to compete in the same measure, or whether it is a small or large company from this Harjumaa and a company from somewhere in Valgamaa. The company in Valgamaa is more likely to have fewer resources and this is how this company in Harjumaa can always write a better project, better points and better money. Ultimately, this money is also unseen here in Harjumaa or Tallinn or Tartumaa. And it creates inequality. All the regional research reports say that inequality with the distribution of European Union money is amplified. It's a shame they don't want to do that. Above all, we continue, I dare say, to look at the Reform Party here, meaning that they run this ministry. I haven't seen that will. The second issue concerns home availability. We know that there are not many places for people to live in in very many regions. Indeed, the number of people is falling in small towns and rural areas, but there are no more homes. One reason is probably that more homes are bought for such a summer home across Estonia. But the other reason is that if several generations were previously living in one building or one apartment, one house, then today there can only be one representative of this generation, often the oldest representative of these generations. This, however, leads to a new problem. Young people who would like to start their own new lives, if there is only a three- or four-room apartment, will not go there, because most of the time, the smaller the regions, the higher the public utility costs. And you'll be forced to leave your hometown. Or those people who would like to move to one region of Estonia or another and move to a job, for example, which is very important in terms of the development of entrepreneurship and regional development, can't do that either. If we look at what we have today, there is nothing to do, the war in Ukraine has brought a lot of people here, and we have to help them. We need to find them long-term accommodations, not temporary, but long-term accommodations, I am talking about this. And these long-term accommodations can't be anything, they can be the apartments and houses we have here in Estonia. If we fill up these few free surfaces, what's the result? How will the movement of Estonian people take place in Estonia? If this demand is significantly higher than the offer, what do rents do? They're rising. Rent prices in Estonia for the last 12 years have increased by 171%. Wage has grown around 100%. We are unprecedented in the regions or countries with the highest price increases in the European Union, rising rents and rising construction prices at all, very much ahead of others. Of course, we cannot leave the refugees unaided, we must do so, but we must realise that we must also support and stand up for the person living here. It can't be that we're just shutting down all our homes and taking the opportunity away from young families, actually reducing the chances for children. Here, the state must come to the aid, here the state must intervene, here the country must lead, and here the country must have a vision. This means that the rental housing programme launched by the Social Democrats in 2015, which has already been put to a halt by the previous government and which stands today, should actually be re-launched. Housing was needed in Estonia before refugees and is needed now, so we should build them. The other thing is, we have plans that we can make earlier. For example, service homes for elderly people. We will build these service houses in the past so that those older people who really need this service, who need their own place of residence and supported housing, can go there. But that means they don't live in their apartment or house anymore. In short, there's a chance for someone else to live there. In the end, we should look for these measures and ways to slow down this insane, unspeakable rise in rent. Because if a large part of the family's income, which is meant for housing, is only used to pay rent, then the family no longer collects the money for the deposit. Maybe they won't buy their own home. And if all that money comes in handy, there won't be enough money for the kids. These are serious problems, unfortunately, we do not see how to deal with them. In many other matters, I must say to the Minister for Public Administration, good work has been done. I agree with my colleagues that this presentation was a good one. That we could ask two questions, not one, was good, and many logics are good. But here, to conclude, I would like the honourable minister to have the strength to convince his coalition partner that, in fact, the things that I touched here, and the things that the minister himself spoke about, must be done and urgently needed to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U176	Thank you. I now ask for Yoko Alenderi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I'll say a few words for myself. I think it's gonna take some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U178	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U179	Yeah. Recently, on the initiative of the Committee on the Environment, we organised a conference on sustainable construction at the "Estonia Builds" fair together with our partners. As we know, construction begins with planning. Some lines may first be from that conference and certainly from the environmental perspective, as "Estonia 2035" is the strategy that today formulates Estonia's ambition of climate neutrality. I just met an interesting fact, for your information, that every day a little plant has to move 115 centimeters in order to maintain suitable climatic conditions. This is the pace of climate change. That is also what this means, or that is why we too have the spread of cream cocks. That's how it is today. This means a change of 200 feet [420 m] per year. Another fact that concerns planning as well. Sweden's planners plan new residential areas for a 2100 sea level rise of up to three metres. Maybe it's worth thinking about. We have nice residential areas here east of the capital and west of it, many of them probably change. These really are examples of physical reality. Thank you very much to the Minister for the steps that have been taken and, of course, which we have also been doing here in relation to wind energy. At the recent employers' conference, President Alar Karis answered the question of whether Putin and Russia's war in Ukraine would stop or speed up the grassroots: now it is no longer a question of whether, but how can it be done faster. Of course, the role played by wind energy is also crucial here. By the way, three quarters of employers who were present also agreed that the war really will speed up the turnaround, especially of course the energy revolution, which will also have the greatest impact. Now, with regard to planning, specifically. Indeed, the OECD report, which was also mentioned by the Minister in his presentation, was also recently presented at the Ministry of Finance. There were some very specific recommendations that specifically concern the area of planning. I'd like to read four of them to you. Reduce the use of construction land and promote denser settlements in centres. The need for compression here was also mentioned by the Minister in his presentation. Similarly, demolition and renovation projects, which were also mentioned, must be linked to spatial development objectives. This is now the question of what these spatial development objectives are, of course, and where they are precisely formulated. Also related to the issue, promote cross-cutting administrative management and levels of governance. The Minister also mentioned the lack of land and space here. However, the competence centre for spatial creation was highlighted. Here, I would, of course, dare to say that indeed this two-and-a-half-planned competence centre cannot provide sufficient support to all those local authorities who actually make planning decisions that reach all of our reality. For example, our pollution from public transport, it can be either free of charge or subject to a charge, if the settlement is only formed along the lines where there is no public transport, there is no way to increase its use. And that is exactly what has happened in recent decades near the capital. At the conference, Jüri Rass, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who is working on the activities of the same environmental development plan there, showed very well on specific maps how settlements have developed and the impact of planning on it. Perhaps it is only now that we are beginning to realise how much this really affects the lives of all of us, whether it really is emissions in transport, the development of our health, or, of course, climate issues. Then I would certainly like to bring some of the ideas that went through the conference, including from representatives of local governments, specialists, builders, architects and planners. Indeed, local authorities need support in planning. A good project was also highlighted, where the architectural centre organised trainings, but it was still a message that the local government should not be left alone here and a partner in the form of the state is very much needed. I also hope that, in fact, in the development of the country, we have reached a level where we already understand these in-depth links very much. It is certainly also the way we manage to distribute euro money, in fact it is in certain areas of Estonia that is shrinking, and Estonia is growing in large cities, both of which need to ensure the quality of the living environment that "Estonia 2035" aims to achieve. Because there are problems and specifics on both sides. What's important is that there's a space-creating competence that can see these connections. The position of architect has changed greatly today; it is not a wise man with a hat and a drawing roller, who looks from above and shows, but vice versa, it is cooperation in very different areas. It concerns, I dare say, all aspects of our lives. That is why I hope that we will be a country in the country where we are taking up and planning a plan of action and a budget for this very high-quality environment, otherwise we will simply patch up the holes afterwards. It's better to plan ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U180	Thank you, good fellows. It is now the case that, according to § 72 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the President of the sitting has the right to consider the speeches closed if he considers that the item on the agenda has been adequately dealt with. I do not think that the issue of the agenda has been adequately addressed, and I would ask the representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. [[Heiki Hepner's asking for more time.]] Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, in this sense, I would like to add my thanks to the fact that the overviews we have received in this Chamber were by far the best. The presentation by both the Minister for Social Protection and the Minister for Defence was relatively limited and the debate could also be held less, but today we could ask for 50% more than in previous presentations. In my review and presentation, I will address all four areas and go in the same order that this sectoral review was presented to us. Topics and general plans on the environment first. Indeed, general plans are an extremely important document to guide life on the ground. However, more attention should probably be paid here to one area and this is also legislation-related, so-called broad-based defence. This issue, this area, should certainly be given greater attention in overall planning. The Minister certainly has a role to play here, because both the building code and our planning law should be reviewed in the light of broad-based national defence. Another issue that I would like to mark is the possible establishment of mines. The Minister has pointed out here that in determining what mineral resources we have somewhere, these studies are carried out by county. But, indeed, right now there is a situation where everyone in the country can come, hit a shovel in the ground and say that I would like to start mining, I ask for research here. But this approach creates enormous confusion in people. Even if mining seems obviously absurd, sometimes they are applied for. There is also a need to look a little bit at processes to avoid creating such unjustified tension in local people. Government is effective, even and smooth. If you look at the availability of our PPP services in rural areas, it will probably be effective, perhaps even even even even, evenly slow, but certainly not very smooth. It would obviously require more resources. The cuts that have been made here at the end of last year in the budgetary procedure have certainly hampered this area and are not appropriate. I'm going to stay with the municipalities for a little while now. Indeed, here, too, the Minister said that there are some bottlenecks that should be addressed, for example, the non-existent financial autonomy, I certainly agree with that. The need to increase motivation in the development of the business environment is also very important, although, if there is no financial autonomy, it is obviously very difficult to increase motivation. What really cannot be accepted and what needs to be resolved is the revenue base of the municipalities. The minister said it was extraordinarily good. Well, I'd cut those words really, really hard. Indeed, the income base of the municipalities has increased, but the state's income base has increased significantly faster, no more than twice as fast as the local government's, and in fact the growth of the local government's income base has not kept pace with the growth of the state's income base. At the same time, it is rather desirable and expected that municipalities will increasingly provide additional services in all areas. That is very reasonable in itself. Here I welcome this proposal that decentralisation should be stepped up and that, together with the revenue base, resources should still be provided to the municipalities. Here, tax autonomy, land tax, for example, should actually be mentioned. The state cannot compensate the municipalities for land tax on land under nature conservation. It's not some extraordinarily large amount of $4.2 million. But no dullly ignores it and takes that money out of the government's pocket. In my opinion, small steps like this should certainly be taken. The development of the country takes into account the needs of regional balancing. It has to be said that some progress has, of course, been made here, but to recall that, for example, the funding for recreational education has been reduced and thus the availability of recreational education has been reduced on the ground, there are still good gaps in this balance. Certainly, the whole issue of the green turn should be reviewed in the current security situation. This does not mean that we should not make an effort to develop renewable energy, but it is quite clear that regional issues are also affected both by the abandonment of internal combustion engines and by the LULUCF issue, so the field of work is actually very wide here. And finally, this last chart of meters. That is very good, that is the first that our ministers have been able to present. It is just a pity that this review of the four areas has been made here, but for only one, such a table has been made. The hope remains that the next three will be done next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U182	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernitsa. A little extra time? Then you don't have to ring that bell all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U183	Though I'd like a bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U184	But let's just do five minutes, then we'll do a little bell and then we'll keep looking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U185	Yeah. First of all, respect for Jaak Aab! Previous colleagues' reviews, analogous, were a joke. Signe Riisalo with population and everything else social protection And now, if you compare the Jaak Aab text at least, it's like night and day, on a positive note. But this 2035, it's like this holy bull, which we wholesale ministers are now presenting. Well, we have another minister, Mr. Sutt will be here soon. Let's see how many lines he lights us up. But that's it. So first of all, the respect that one minister has taken the matter seriously. When you start looking at it, it's all beautiful: planning, sea areas and digital change of planning and analysis to adapt to smart shrinking, a beautiful expression, "smart shrinking adaptation" and everything like that, you're not gonna name it anymore. Everything's very beautiful. Well, it's also that the cookie is coming to unite local governments, whether it's 100 euros in the face or a little bit bigger after a while. But these are the cookies that other ministers have offered here to local governments to lose small schools and upper secondary schools. We have seen here what they are called, not manned post points, but humanised post points, because it is not politically correct, it is sexist, it is manning, it is the plans for reducing these post points, and Minister Sut's plan, which he has confirmed, 15 pieces can remain together. There's still over several hundred of them here. So the kind of movement that it was here, to adapt to the smart shrink. And now, if you look at what is here: a beautiful declaration that Estonia is a human-centred country where there is interaction in policy-making and people can participate in decision-making, public services are of high quality and available, regardless of location or place of residence. Everything is beautiful again, very beautiful everything. But when you start looking next door, what is it? For example, the table on the last page, the table with red and green is taken from the file of the Ministry of Finance called "The Main Root Problems of Estonian Regional Development." And it still comes to the full: disparities between regions, self-realisation, income, health, leisure and self-realization opportunities, daily living conditions, mobility and associations, competitive access to capital for companies, access to the workforce with the necessary skills for the company, the capacity of the local government to provide public services, etc. So this is the explanatory memorandum to the last colored table that's in front, which isn't included here. And the result, what is it? When looking at the population, North-East Estonia minus 3%, the rural municipalities of Central Estonia and Peipsi are not exactly Central Estonia, but it stretches out to Peipsi in Jõgeva County by 2.5%, South-East Estonia also. Good health: 68% in Harju County have good health, while 42% in Northeast Estonia. Healthy life years: the difference between regions, the difference between counties five years, could be no matter where you live. Or income difference: for example, in Hiiumaa 31%, or twice the size of Harjumaa. But I'm not going to read them all here. So it's real, isn't it? And now, if you look at the same underdeveloped regions, the red or green region...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U186	Peter, are you going to take these three minutes? [[Peter Ernits says yes.]] Yeah, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U187	So to speak, red regions, underdeveloped regions or areas of market failure could be said. Ida-Viru County score is 18 red squares, while North-Estonia has zero, and Central-Estonia is back to Peipsi. It's one of those, the heart is, how to say it politely, pretty much over. Heart-Estonia. The ambassadors of the heart of Estonia, the heart is quite out. It's such a new trend everywhere. Or, in the case of greens, there is once again an industrial and successful base and a slave, a poor lunch and then this heart, the Heart of Estonia. So Heart-Estonian politicians should seriously consider whether this logo should be updated in any way. But when you look at these indices, I always like those indices that are here, and then, when they were accepted, they were kind of hung up, so let's see and decide. Well, what's in here? Take, for example, the satisfaction of the living environment. There are some numbers, 84.5 we have, colleagues, so you know, and there must be a target for 2035: 85. So we have 13 years here and plus 0.5 has to be achieved. But once again, the index of environmental trends, here we have to achieve plus 15. And now it's going to be 2 plus 2 in one year, but in the future it's going to fall again. Why? Can't discuss it here. Or we could take government. The Global Application Index should go to 89 here, but it's 85 now. The efficiency of governance, right now, is 1.3, just so you know, index. But the goal is index 1.2. What does it say? And who does it tell? Or what else is there? Many of these indices are taken here... In some cases, in 32 cases, in others, in many more different indices combined they are put together. As I have already said here, for example, one is the global visibility of Estonia's economic, military, tourism, culture. Index, serious index. And we have a target of 89, it needs to be achieved in 13 years. But in 2019, there were 89. And now it's down to 85 in 2020. And now he's coming back. But what's behind it? Surely it's all very intelligent officials... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, what a beautiful bell! And all this makes sense, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U188	But that means we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U190	Yeah, really now we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U191	Yeah, a few minutes. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U192	No, I can't have a few more minutes. You've already had a few minutes. [[Laughing.]] Finish the sentence and then... Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U193	And what really is that the movement or the work that Jake Aab has done with the officials is great. But he's actually pretty far away, and he's actually going, you should be honest with him...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U194	Please, we're out of time, Peter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U195	Yeah. The movement shrinking, the way it was, the direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U196	All right. The negotiations are now closed and we can consider this item to be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U197	Today's third item is the inquiry submitted on 22 February by Riigikogu members Heiki Hepner, Priit Sibula, Andres Metsoja, Aivar Koka, Raivo Tamme, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Ivari Padari and Anti Polandmets concerning the conversion of the Natura restricted zone into a target protection zone. Inquiry No 123. Representative of the heirs, Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner will now report it to us. Please, Heiki!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 7 February this year, the Environmental Board has addressed the Ministry of the Environment with a proposal of 42000 hectares and more for the strict protection of Natura sites, including a proposal covering approximately 13000 hectares of private forests. The European Commission's infringement procedure is the basis for the public to suspend cuttings, which could lead to the obligation to pay a fine for Estonia. In its press release of 9 February, the Environment Agency stated that cuttings have been suspended due to infringement procedures. However, in a letter to the Estonian Private Forests Association, the Environmental Board has explained on 17 February that the proposal is not based on the infringement procedure of the European Commission, i.e. it is expressly stated that the original information provided to the public on the reason for stopping cuttings has been incorrect. There is no need to ban forest management because of infringement proceedings by the European Commission and the resulting risk of fines. The guidelines issued by the European Commission for the definition of Natura sites in themselves do not mean the end of forest management in Natura areas. To stop forest management, the Environmental Board relies on § 8 (6) of the Nature Conservation Act. It states that, where a proposal to grant protection to a natural object has been submitted or a procedure for granting protection has been initiated, the administrative body to which an application has been made for the grant of another administrative act which may affect the status of the natural object referred to in the proposal shall have the right to suspend the procedure for the granting of an administrative act. The procedure for granting an administrative act shall be suspended until the decision to grant or refuse protection of a natural object has been taken, but no longer than 28 months. New legal practice has been chosen, where the Environmental Board will implement its own proposals and protect areas that are already protected. The most bureaucratic route has been chosen to resolve this issue. If any forest notification is refused, the reasons for the refusal shall be given in substance within 15 days following the beginning of a 28-month suspension period. The suspension of forest-economic activities is extremely intense and the use of private property is indistinguishable. According to § 32 of the Constitution, in this case it must be reimbursed to the owner immediately and for a fair remuneration. Forest owners of Natura 2000 restricted zones will be able to receive compensation of EUR 60 per hectare per year. In the target zone, this amount is EUR 110 per year and management is completely prohibited. These amounts have remained unchanged since 2007. At the same time, the consumer price index has been 44.5%, and here we are not talking about an increase of 15% this year. By the way, in Latvia and Lithuania these amounts are up to EUR 250 per hectare. Indeed, it can be said that the Environmental Board has not carried out a socio-economic analysis of its proposal. It has only been referred to laconically that if all privately owned land was sold at an average price to the State, this would mean costs of EUR 93,4 million. Municipalities will lose a land tax of EUR 93200. The annual cost of applying for grants is around 1.4 million. Now, if you look at these sums again, I am, indeed, simply reminding you that in Soviet times, it was good to compare my "adusams" with 1913 in order to make this difference look better. Indeed, in 2007, the State has granted some subsidies, but unfortunately, these subsidies have not changed in the past years. As a result, what has been read out here, nine members of the Riigikogu from three political groups have asked the minister five questions. We hope that the Minister will give a meaningful answer to these five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U199	The Minister for the Environment Erki Savisaar answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions asked in the order in which they are presented. For the sake of clarity of the tenogram, I will also read the question out, and then it will be good to see what comes together. Question one. On 9 February, did the Director-General of the Environmental Board send misleading information to the public claiming that strict restrictions will be imposed due to the infringement procedure of the European Commission or that the Environmental Board has provided misleading information to the representative of private forest owners, the Estonian Private Forest Association, claiming that strict restrictions will not be applied in connection with the infringement procedure of the European Commission? Answer. The Environment Agency has submitted to the Ministry of the Environment a proposal to amend the protection regime for national protected sites which overlap with Natura 2000 sites in such a way that the forest habitat types listed in the first annex to the Habitats Directive are strictly protected. In this letter to the private forest association, the Environmental Board wanted to point out that the proposal was based not only on infringement procedures but also on other factors. The reasons for the proposal were the following: The European Commission has launched an infringement procedure which complains that Estonia will not assess the impact of economic activity, including logging, on the integrity of the Natura 2000 site and its conservation objectives. At present, impact assessments can only be carried out on the basis of environmental impact assessment and environmental management system law. In preparation, there is a legislative amendment that allows for further separate Natura assessment in accordance with Article 6 (3) of the Habitats Directive, in cases where there are no other reasons than the possible impact on Natura for initiating an environmental impact assessment. The legislative amendment that is also being prepared will lead to a much more thorough procedure instead of coordinating the current forest protection or forest notification. The ex ante evaluation must be carried out by the Environmental Board or another authority depending on the nature of the activity requested, but the relevant Natura evaluation will be carried out by the person interested in the activity. According to the Environmental Agency, some 7000 forest notifications are submitted in Natura sites per year, where the forest reporter should carry out an impact assessment on its own. If the result is that the planned felling is likely to undermine the integrity of the area and the achievement of the conservation objectives, the cutting cannot be carried out, despite the expenditure incurred by the forest owner, or the expenditure incurred in producing the impact assessment is higher than the revenue from the felling. We have considered different options to ensure the clarity and simplicity of the system. We have prepared an amendment to the Nature Conservation Act to ensure the final protection of forest habitat types in Natura sites even in the restricted zones and storage areas currently managed. This proposal concerns all forest habitat types in the first annex to the Habitats Directive in Estonia. The environmental authority's proposal for stricter protection in these areas will allow cutting in these areas until the entry into force of the amendment to the law to be halted and to avoid irreversible damage to them. Secondly, the status of forest habitats is unfavourable on the basis of the report on the implementation of the Habitats Directive. The report indicates that logging related to forest management, including the removal of dead trees and flat wood and changes in the water regime, are important risk factors. Without strict protection of forest habitat types, the objective of the Habitats Directive, which is to ensure the favourable status of the species and habitat types mentioned in the Annexes to the Directive, cannot be achieved. The situation of the ten endangered forest habitat types in Estonia, which are listed in the first annex to the Habitats Directive, has not improved in accordance with the last report of 2019 compared to the previous report prepared in 2013. Most types of forest habitats continue to be disadvantaged. Six guys are in bad shape and two guys are in bad shape. Only two types of forest habitat have been assessed as favourable. Compared to the results of the previous report, the condition of dune forests has deteriorated and has become inadequate. In addition, there are changes in trends. In the previous report, four habitat types were improving and two were deteriorating. The last report did not report any improvement. The main cause of the handicaps of forest habitat types is the felling of habitats and consequently the decrease in total habitat area, as well as forest drainage. The best way to improve the nature conservation status of forests is to ensure their natural development. Therefore, when designing the protection regime, forests are generally taken into account in the target protection zone where cutting and drying are prohibited. Thirdly, the Natura 2000 Action Plan 2021/2027 and the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 aim to protect all remaining natural and indigenous forests. While the European Commission has stressed that people are an integral part of nature, the two sides work best when they are partners. However, in the same document, the Commission has pointed out that normal activities can continue as before if they do not have a negative impact on the species or habitat types for which the site has been designated. The first annex to the Habitats Directive to ensure the preservation of forest habitat types is the best way of avoiding their normal forest management. That is why forest cutting in such places is subject to strict restrictions, which will enable the natural structure of forests to be maintained or restored there and ensure the natural functioning of the forest ecosystem, in order to ensure that there are also viable forests for future generations. The second question: "Why has a new legal practice been chosen to resolve the issue (I propose to myself, which will then be implemented and implemented in Section 8 (6) of the Nature Conservation Act). Do you think that the steps taken are legal and in line with good administrative practice? " Pursuant to § 8 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act, a proposal for protection may be submitted by anyone. At the same time, according to § 5 of the Constitution, it is primarily the duty of the state to ensure the protection of the public interest, i.e. the protection of natural values. The Environmental Board is the public authority that must ensure the protection of the public interest, the protection of natural value in practice, including identifying where natural values need to be protected and making the necessary proposals to decision-makers. In its activities and decisions, the Environmental Board shall comply with the legal arrangements in force. This is not a new practice. The Environmental Board, as the competent authority and responsible for planning, organisation and effectiveness of the protection of protected natural sites, has the best overview of which items and values need to be further protected or the existing protection regimes adjusted, and is the author of most proposals. The third question: "Why has the most bureaucratic way of solving this issue been chosen and how expensive is it for the country? How much labour-intensive does the proposed measure prove to be? What alternatives were considered to address the problem that had arisen? " Not all areas of the proposal may be severely protected and the Forest Communication suspended. The Environmental Board will review these sites there, including in the context of additional inventories, in order to be absolutely certain that the specific forest area complies with the description of the forest habitat type in the first Annex to the Habitats Directive, and will take its decision accordingly. An alternative to changing the safeguard regime would be an impact assessment for each logging communication, which is certainly a more bureaucratic route. In the context of the impact assessment, each notifying party should organise and finance its own impact assessment. Question 4: "Why has the decision with such a high impact not been made in a socio-economic analysis? How does this decision affect the sector's added value and jobs, as well as the preservation of natural values in private forests, if it can be costed by the loss of its land ownership? " The final socio-economic analysis has not been carried out, as restrictions on the scope of the proposal are only imposed where the place of residence is certainly present. The data shall be verified, as appropriate, as a result of an inventory or on-the-spot survey. 100% of the proposed areas will certainly not be subject to strict restrictions. If the entire proposed area is taken into account, on the basis of preliminary estimates, and given that the restrictions in these areas are still in force on the state land as of December 2018, when the decision was taken by the management board of RMK to end all forest habitat types and private forests in Natura sites, the circa of the volume of forest management not already used in the restricted zone is 70%. If all of this were now to be protected by 100%, additional restrictions would result in an estimated EUR 134 million of added value for the entire logging cycle being created. The forest cutting cycle is on average 80 years, with an added value of approximately EUR 1.7 million per year. Given the amount of added value, this could have a direct impact on 22 jobs in the circa and indirectly 37 jobs in the forest and wood processing sectors per year. And the fifth question: "Does the State have sufficient resources in the state budget to pay market-compliant benefits and when will market-conform benefits be implemented? " Support, Natura forest support, financed from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and co-financed from the Estonian state budget, is still being paid in the proposal area. The purpose of the aid is to compensate forest owners partly for loss of income in the forest due to the protection of nature. The amount of aid per hectare of forest in the restricted zone and in the area to be designed shall be EUR 60 per year and EUR 110 per hectare per year of forest in the targeted zone. Our aim is to find the means to pay the same level of support as the target zone in the proposed area where strict protection is applied. The additional costs of increasing the aid would amount to approximately EUR 635000 per year. Our additional budget request at the beginning of this year was rejected. Other solutions need to be found. We hope to pay higher support from next year. By imposing full economic constraints, landowners will have the right to apply for acquisition of the land to the State. If all privately owned land were to be acquired by the State on the basis of an average price, this would mean a cost of EUR 93,4 million. According to the Land Tax Act, no land tax is payable on the land of the destination zone. There is a 50% land tax discount in the restricted zone. The impact on the overall reduction of local government revenue would amount to EUR 93000 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U201	Thank you. And now the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U202	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Up to 28 months can be like this between earth and heaven. Definitely part is shorter and part is up to 28 months. But given that everything is a targeted protection zone, and multiply by 110 a year, it's like you're not gonna get 3.3 million dollars, maximum if these forest owners are waiting for that time. Is that what you're thinking about? I'm not saying that if they go to the target zone, it's gonna be 110 hectares. But right now, there's gotta be something for that up to 28 months of pain. Because 635,000 were sent to the government for a long time to make up for it, I get it right. Well, then it hasn't been thought of at all, for 28 months.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U203	Thank you. Well, first of all, I don't quite understand how you found that three million. At present, aid is paid in all these areas, EUR 110 in the targeted zone and the remainder in the restricted zone where EUR 60 is paid. This question, or the application with which we went to the Ministry of Finance, was to pay EUR 110 per hectare in the restricted zone in the areas planned for that destination zone during the planning procedure, as in the target zone. This is a circa of EUR 635000 per year for additional needs, financial. But everybody gets 60 euros of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U204	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U205	Thank you very much. In fact, the main problem is not to pay fair compensation to forest owners. Today, if we also take inflation into account this year, this 60 euro has become EUR 24 and EUR 110 has become EUR 44. In principle, I still have not found any undertaking in any other sector with a return on which the value of its assets is compensated, I do not know, for 100 or 200 years. The money that puts him in. I've never met one of those entrepreneurs. We also saw, as you said, that the government of the Republic could not find 600,000 euros. In this sense, it in itself basically works against nature conservation. For the landowner, it is important that there is no natural value there. How do we get out of this situation? What do you propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U206	Thank you. I believe that there will soon be an additional budget for this year for the Riigikogu, where it will be possible to find more money for this purpose, of course. Today we are in such an interesting situation where, for example, in areas outside Natura, but under nature conservation, we are paying a full grant of 110 euros in planned areas. It's like this year for the first time, now we've come to this result. We also wanted to implement it within the Natura site, but since this was not foreseen in the budget, the additional request did not give this possibility. That doesn't mean we've given it up, so we're gonna keep working on it. In addition, there is, of course, the question of these compensation rates, there are different mathematics, where one shows that this money is far more than the forest management should be, and the other, on the contrary, shows that it is much less. I would say that this allowance is not paid out in 200 years, but paid out every year. If we take forest management and then you get that income once in 80 years, but in the case of support, you get it every year. In this respect, this diagram is a little different. But I fully understand the concerns of the forest owners. And we are working to ensure that the compensation mechanism is the same both inside and outside Natura sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U207	I would point out that a question can be asked at the hearing. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, in the context of Natura sites, a political consideration has been made once, that is, in 2004, when we joined the European Union, where we actually had to take it over. Everyone else should be a science-based process in which researchers evaluate associations, be they areas covered by a bird or a corresponding directive, agreed upon. An important mistake has been made somewhere, because today we have reached a point where the state has had to stop cutting in areas where the protection code has not yet been developed, drawn up, processed. Where's the mistake made and where's the problem? Because these landowners aren't really guilty of anything, poor people. The blame is somewhere else. It's like trying to figure out where the guilt is and how we can all come out of this situation as winners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U209	Yeah. Thank you. I don't think we're gonna get very far by looking for the guy who did this. We might rather try together to find solutions that would be a sensible solution. Indeed, before 2004, all these areas should have been subject to a Natura assessment, which was not actually carried out at that time. There was just such an inner conviction that these were areas that deserve protection. After all, this decision has slowly been reversed here. Several sites have been removed from Natura because they do not contain Natura values, have entered outdoor areas and other sites that are not protected by Natura. But expansions and redeployments have also been made. There have also been ex post assessments of whether or not they deserve this protection. But the reason we are here today is really that the main question is that there is an infringement procedure against the Estonian state, because we do not sufficiently analyse economic activity in Natura areas and their impact on the integrity of the Natura site. If we do not solve this problem, the Estonian state may pay a fine. Whatever we call it, it's a maximum of 72 million euros of the circuit. It is divided into different parts, when and how many and how many a year and many at the same time, but in the order of magnitude so much. In order, on the one hand, to show that we are dealing with this issue, we put it on temporary protection. It would reduce that risk, not that it would be nonexistent, but it would reduce that risk. We're gonna show you how we're gonna get to that assessment. Because in our content, we actually find that we have assessed these effects. We cannot say that we have been quite wrong in defending this whole Natura site. It is true, however, that we do not have papers with the name that the directive provides for. We haven't prepared them. And the point of the law that we are working on here is that we will also produce such papers for Natura sites, which will specifically assess this impact on the Natura site and on the integrity of the Natura site. The alternative would have been to ask all landowners to carry out an environmental impact assessment before cutting. This is, however, an enormously expensive process. We did not see any reason to choose this path, which is exhausting for the landowner and, as a result, it is not certain that he will receive this cutting permit. As I said, 100% is definitely not going to be protected, but let's say, it's more like 90% is going to be. Perhaps if the landowners carried out this assessment themselves, at their own expense, then, in fact, in nine out of ten cases, they would rather be able to answer that this effect is too great and cannot be carried out. We didn't find that reasonable. That's what we made the clock tick, those 28 months. Let's try to solve this problem. If you can't, then this limit is down and this section can be applied once, it's like this other charm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U210	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U211	Yes, thank you! Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a little joke in half and not so seriously, dead seriously, and not even with you in particular. But there's a lot of talk and protection in this hall, in other words, that forest management is like the devil. That's why they always bring in protecting someone or protecting something, whatever. But that's what I'd ask. I have also wondered whether we have any research, whether we have any assurance that those whom we are terribly defending will understand that we are protecting them. Are they staying where we're protecting them, or are they going somewhere else, or are we not realizing that we're protecting them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U212	Thank you. Very philosophical question is, does the tree realize that we're defending it? [[Laughing.]] What can I say? Our nature conservation has a long history, and the rules today have come from it. On the other hand, I think it is time to take a little look at these principles and open up this debate that we defend, why we defend and how we defend. Perhaps this means that we must somehow review and make these rules in such a way that they respond more to today's circumstances, but also to all the international agreements that we have concluded, because in Natura it is not just a national issue, but is still a European commitment. This job is continuous. The protection rules are constantly being changed, the analysis is ongoing and also the mapping is ongoing. Every day and every year, knowledge of the environment around us improves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U213	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Then we can go to the negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the heirs, Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, if the state were to compensate the landowner fairly, fairly and immediately for the barrage of using this intensive private property, which could be compared in principle to nationalisation, then obviously we would not have to discuss it here today and, sooner or later, we would not have to deal with these matters so seriously, and we could rather think and debate about whether those we defend will also understand that they are being protected. But now there is a situation where the landowner has been given a signal: if you do not want your land, say, to be nationalised, then for God's sake, do not let any greater natural value appear on your land, otherwise it will simply come and be taken away from you. This attitude is immoral for both the landowner and nature. It is a violation of our constitution and absolutely does not protect the natural values for which we have actually designed protection. Let me give you some examples. We're still trying to be more sacred, I'd say, more sacred than the Pope himself is. There's a saying they're trying to be so sacred that they just don't know anymore, so get up to heaven. There are 0.27 hectares per capita in France, 0.14 hectares in Germany, 0.11 hectares in Denmark, 0.02 hectares in the Netherlands and 1.84 hectares in Estonia. If we now look at how it is now protected, under strict protection, then in Estonia it is now 14.2, and according to European statistics, if you take back a little bit, with which I compare other countries, it was 13.6. In France, this percentage is 0.8, in Germany 1.9 and in Denmark 2.8, in the Netherlands it is really a little more, with 0.02 hectares per person, that percentage is 10.6. In the Netherlands, it should be 80% or 90% if we wanted to be treated equally. In Germany, it should be at least equal to us, the minimum. It actually shows how different it all is. And now for that reparation. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U215	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U216	Indeed, at the time when the 2007 designation of Natura sites took place and the creation took place, this EUR 110 in the case of strict protection was quite a considerable amount. Now, indeed, this EUR 110 has become, in real terms, EUR 44, the inflation that has taken place in the meantime, has eaten 60% in substance. And this 60 euro has become 24 euros. And the owner of the forest, who has a mature forest, won't get that value in 100 years or 200 years. Indeed, if someone thinks that this mature forest has fallen on him from somewhere in the sky, it is not really the case. Our fathers, our grandfathers, our mothers and our grandmothers have worked hard to make sure that we have this forest today, just as we must strive to have our children and grandchildren. It's not just from heaven, fell by the grace of God. That's what our people have been working for. And no one can take this job away from you at random. That's the main message. And that's the core of the fight that we're actually debating here. What is our greatest problem with nature conservation? That we do not understand that a protected forest is the property of a particular person and perhaps the livelihood of a particular person. He's the one that keeps our lives on earth, he's crucial in this context. Now this, really, how intensively our forests are managed. According to the statistical inventory, if I remember correctly, 15,7 cubic metres of dead trees per hectare. 15,7 hectares. This satisfactory result is considered to be 5 cubic metres per hectare, which is also included in our Forest Act. So with 10 cubic metres, we're going to exceed this satisfactory result. And we are also in a very, very good place in Europe with this. If somewhere very well protected, it is the Republic of Estonia. We have nothing to be ashamed of here. If we are among the five best in anything, we are among the five best European countries in protecting forests. So, in that sense, indeed, if we want to make some kind of assessment, then we have to look and compare and put ourselves in the background system as well. Now, indeed, in the case of the Minister, I have no doubt that the Minister will do his best. I really have no doubt that he would like to find a solution for how these benefits could be paid. But, indeed, there is a coalition partner in the government, and I'm going to conclude from here that private property is not sacred to the other half. If even EUR 635000 cannot be found. Of course, we are now trying to make proposals on this when the budget comes here to compensate for it. But something's totally wrong, and something's totally wrong. And then you can't say that nature's protection essentially speaks to anyone. We will not be able to reimburse EUR 4 million to our local authorities for the loss of income from land tax, and then we will try to talk about the importance of protecting nature for us. It does not really matter, therefore, it is apparent if we are unable to pay such sums. And really, here we could still look at our southern neighbours, who pay around EUR 250 per hectare. So we have something to learn and think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U217	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it is now certainly commendable that owners and businesses will be able to escape the Natura ex-ante impact assessment in case of logging. But we know that companies must also assess the value of biological assets on their balance sheets. It is also a sort of undertaking to assess the value of biological assets. What is the value of biological assets? Is it specifically the property that I sell it and get something in return, and does it have to be one-to-one? I know that from RMK to private forest organisations, this is a wrestling point, and the real question is always what it gives now and to whom. The exact same question can be asked in the context of Natura Impact Assessment when we discuss this whole issue, of course, on the basis of one particular property or on the basis of one single communication. All nature conservation we will certainly speak up in a certain territory where it is possible to breed, create the necessary conditions for the living environment, and it actually forms a whole. This whole thing still needs to be looked at in a big way, and then to go to a single detail, a protected object, a species, so that [to understand what should be done]. Today we're trying to solve this the other way around. I understand, actually, it's a coercive situation in front of us being intimidated by a fine. But what should we learn from all this? Point one, I think that we should speak very clearly in this Chamber once again that when we talk about planning and the necessary objects for the state, nature does not know borders in the context of villages, municipalities, counties and borders. Inevitably, human intervention affects this environment. For me, it has been an amazing experience to give the answer that, for example, in the case of the railway corridor, Taarikõnnu in the field of nature conservation, which has been a Natura pre-selection area, it is said that an apology cannot pass, but there is already a railway route. Can't go. Because these species have settled nearby. And in order to do less damage to the environment, a new route must be established. And that's where a lot of earthlings run out of minds. They ask how it can be that the creation of a new path, the creation of this earth body, the deforestation of the forest is better for nature conservation than the readjustment of an existing line as it has been built a hundred years ago. These are, in my opinion, the places where politicians are in trouble. There must be a problem here. We're trying to solve this whole world inside some kind of box and legal space. But we forget about this science-based approach, precisely in this key, that we need to see the whole, and we need to allow ourselves to, like, evaluate and consider. If in the bud we take the position that the Natura site, it is such a sacred community that must not be touched, but the nature next to it can be touched, then people get spots on it. I'd like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U219	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U220	Often, if the owner needs to solve a problem inside the property, or within the Natura site, which is subject to regulation, where the Environmental Board says what can be done there, what can not be done, how must be planned, how to evaluate the effects in order to reach the final decision, it is often said: but sorry, there is a Natura site boundary from here, but these effects are also above the Natura site. In my opinion, in a bureaucratic and official way, we have created a situation in Estonia where, in the light of all this, we are actually ridiculing nature conservation. I think that's the whole problem. Even maybe it's not so much a problem for a human being, for the owner how much he's going to lose his income. I think most people in Estonia who live in rural areas and are owners love nature. It is natural for them to live with nature. This EUR 10 or EUR 12 is often not a problem, but a very serious problem. When it comes to people who are forest owners and have known from the outset that, for example, they have acquired land for the Natura site or that the Natura site has emerged after their ownership, because they have previously owned this land, it has always been said that the Natura network in Europe is such a network where the two-sided effects of human activity and nature protection must be ensured. They both have to have a place. And actually this truth I think we should be more assertive, both of which must have room for action. But the fact that we really have now come to a situation where we are creating an additional restriction for a person living in a restricted space, the same 28 months, and we are delineating it in such a way that it is solved by an official from some space who must then assess whether there is a natural value or not, in a situation where these areas are probably very likely to have been invented several times, simply not reached the drafting and final phase of the protection rule. Unfortunately, being involved in one of these areas myself, I have seen at least three assessors and all of them in the woods [and I can say that] in reality, the circumstances are probably that we have been sloppy in our administrative process. We've spent quite a lot of resources. We have beaten our hands with these people, and with the owners we have enough time, we have one hundred and ten of the most important problems that need to be addressed, and now we have finally reached a deadlock. I understand there are suggestions on how to resolve this. We want strength. But in the light of all this, this compensation will always be more expensive for the country. So our role in this House is obviously to look intently at these compensations, because it cannot be that the state is imposing its will on the owner indefinitely, failing to fulfil its obligations to the owner, be they financial or documentary. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U221	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U222	Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U223	Just in case, three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U224	Ladies and gentlemen, The Natura site is such an interesting area. The Environment Agency always says that the area of the Natura site is below the European average. True! But if we look at how much forest land we have under strict protection, we are the third place after Liechtenstein and Italy. Everyone sees what he wants to see. The recent establishment of a Natura site has followed rather strange paths. For foresters, the Environmental Board has explained that the main reason for expanding the Natura site is the launch of infringement proceedings by the European Commission in June 2021. As far as I know, the Ministry of the Environment has replied that this is not the reason. According to European Commission rules, forest management in the Natura site is not prohibited. It simply has to be done sensibly. Foresters were promised that this would be discussed before the Natura site was established. In fact, when they were brought together, they were simply put in front of the fact that they were and will remain so. As Heiki said, we see again that Estonia is still the pope as the Pope himself. Now for economic activity. I would like to ask whether we have an analysis of how these areas have been affected by economic activity in previous Natura sites. I haven't seen these tests. But maybe it's my fault, I don't know. I remember the time of Natura too. It was then an idea and a goal quite different, because the support in Natura sites was slightly higher and the award criteria were weaker. That was the reason for that time. Once again, we arrive at the fact that we do not have proper and acceptable multi-faceted analyses. Either we make decisions consciously or once again emotionally, as someone feels right. And we're gonna get to the point that the forest management is a sin in any case. In Southeast Estonia, Central Estonia, forest management is related to approximately 24% or 25% of the population. Do we tell these people to go where the woods are? Maybe you can survive somewhere. Let us not talk here about regionality and support for it when we make decisions that contradict it. Sometimes it is very difficult for me to understand where the Riigikogu comes from. Is seeing relationships so infinitely difficult? And let's not talk about protecting nature here. Perhaps protection harms more than reasonable and balanced keeping. Keep our nature, keep our senses! No land or forest owner is an enemy of nature, for he has this desire and desire that his future generations may use the same nature, the same forest. The most harmful guardians of nature are urban people who do not have the sense that future generations also want to use nature and live in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U225	Thank you. I don't see any more words. I'm closing the negotiations. This item is also exhausted if the Minister does not want to answer. No, I don't. Yes, the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-11_U226	We have a free microphone now. Yeah, you can sign up for a speech after a hammer hit. It doesn't change things. Today's trial is over. Thank you.
