ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session. As usual, at the beginning of the sitting, members of the Riigikogu will be able to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, Jaak Juske!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U3	I'm sorry for a second. Okay. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U4	Thank you. Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. Now just a few days ago, news came to the media that our government of the Republic of Estonia has started to pressure local governments with financial support to close down smaller magymnasiums, namely upper secondary schools in these schools, and schools with fewer than 100 students in upper secondary schools. And our recently confirmed education strategy for Estonia until 2035 also provides for the closure of smaller rural primary schools. It is clear that these decisions will lead to a marked increase in regional disparities, also threatening the cultural characteristics and vitality of the regions. In addition, these decisions will also put pressure on the municipalities to close down these smaller schools in any case. And the fate of the schools that remain, these smaller schools, will be seriously questioned. On the basis of this, the Social Democrats will then have four questions on this subject for our Minister for Public Administration, Jaak Aab. I'll report on the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U5	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U6	Good fellows! I'm handing over the President of the Republic's rights to amend the law. In particular, we want to organise the appointment of the President's occupational pension and other occupational benefits by the law amending this act. In particular, the President's benefits include, for example, obtaining accommodation, representation, work premises for the purpose of reimbursement by the State of rent and maintenance costs, or receiving compensation from the State for reasonable expenses related to the maintenance of the President's place of residence, having access to an adviser and secretary who is in the service of the Office of the President of the Republic and so on. This draft complements the end of the term of office by four grounds for termination of office, by standing in elections to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament, by being elected as a member of these Riigikogus or by appointment as a minister. The President's Benefits Act, which is one of its main content, supports the preservation of the President's representative role even after leaving office. If the President goes on a daily policy, he will be running by then, his occupational pension will be interrupted. Later, when he leaves day politics, such as the role of a Member of the European Parliament or a Member of the Riigikogu, he receives his pension again. Just as in this year's state budget we organized party funding, we pulled it together, so we would save state money as well as the President of the Republic's benefits on certain occasions, i.e. savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U7	Okay. I have adopted one draft law and one inquiry, and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U8	76 members of the Riigikogu registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one item on the agenda to convey to you. In fact, on today's fourth item of the agenda, which is the draft law amending the State Border Act initiated by the Isamaa Group (489 SE), Mart Võrklaev, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, makes a presentation by the Commission. And with that clarification, we're going to be moving today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U9	The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to establish a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by the Side Effects of Vaccination against Corona Virus" (482 OE). Here is the presentation by Priit Sibula, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 November, the Riigikogu adopted an urgent draft of the Pro Patria Group proposing to the Government of the Republic to establish a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by the Side Effects of Vaccination Against Coronavirus. It has only been 76 days, and the coalition's reaction enables us to deal with this urgent draft. I recall that the reason for this draft was the extremely low level of vaccination against the corona virus in Estonia, largely due to the government's failure to make rapid systemic and adequate decisions and poor government communication. The government continues to stress that it is not possible to live without vaccination. This is despite the fact that Mika Salminen, Director of Health Security at the Finnish Health Agency, pointed out in a letter sent to the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that the omicronth strain infects vaccinated people almost as quickly as unvaccinated people, and that is why the koronapass becomes meaningless on the basis of the present. According to Salminen, the use of the korona passport in public services can even speed up the epidemic. The Center for the Prevention and Control of Diseases in California and New York points out from a study published in January that COVID's penetration provides adequate effective protection. In addition, Irja Lutsar, former head of the scientific council, has said...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U11	I'm sorry for a moment, Mr. Onion. Ladies and gentlemen, the buzzing is quite large in the hall. Let's try to keep it down. If there's anything important to talk about, you can do it outside the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U12	In addition, Irja Lutsar, a former head of the Scientific Advisory Panel, has said that it would be helpful to reduce the test load if the PCR test requirement were replaced by measuring antibody levels, which, according to him, is also considered a good solution by the latest scientific literature. But if we are hostages to the measures imposed by the government, then the government must take the necessary steps to alleviate the fears and hesitations of the people. The restrictions of the government have linked several leisure and sports opportunities to the Estonian population with vaccination. Vaccination against the Corona virus has been extensive and the period of use of the vaccines has been short and therefore it is necessary to set up a fund to compensate for possible damage to the vaccination. Several European countries have set up a separate fund to mitigate the potential serious side effects of vaccination damage or other medicines. Among others, Denmark, Norway, Austria and Slovenia and our neighbouring countries Finland and Latvia have done so. Funds and different compensatory mechanisms vary from country to country, but they aim to ensure that public support is provided to people in the event of rare events. The need to create a fund for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccines has emerged in connection with the COVID pandemic. With regard to the aim of vaccinating against corona virus, most of the population have been subjected to national measures that leave many people no choice but to be protected. Consequently, the State also has an obligation to establish a compensatory mechanism in the event of negative consequences for human health of the corona virus vaccine. These are known to be rare but do not exempt the country from liability. If the country obliges people to vaccinate, it must also be prepared to take responsibility and help people. The need to create a fund is also supported by the fact that Estonia has not been able to meet the set vaccination targets. There are a significant number of people in our society who fear the side effects of vaccination. With its inaction and bad communication, the government has further aggravated such fears and doubts. Such fears, however, cannot be overlooked, so we need to increase our sense of security. A separate fund for compensating for the side effects of corona virus vaccination would provide people with confidence that they will not be left alone in the event of a problem. Thus, the vaccine damage fund would help the person to reach the best possible decision on vaccination, which must have been given to the person, particularly in view of his or her state of health and his or her assessment of his or her health. Only a person, with the help of a specialist, can achieve the best result that is best for his or her health. We can remove another obstacle by creating this fund from this path so that people can take responsibility for their health and make the best decision. On 11 November, a story was published in Postimees: "I have become a victim of the system!" " The story that is known to the editor describes the case of Helm. The quote begins. "Helmil no longer listens to the word after the injection of the vaccine received in spring. The seizures resemble the signs of multiple sclerosis. "At first, I didn't even dare to go out of the house, fortunately, the schools were at that time in distant learning," she recalls. As a teacher, he knows what vaccines do, as is the fact that rarely anyone gets hit with some side effects. Within six months, Helmi's seizures have become less frequent, but the feeling of runnin' ants and dying of limbs still sends it. The first course of vaccine was broken on the advice of a family doctor because you have to go to a neurologist first. "The doctor's time will come in December if the system doesn't lock before," he says. By Tuesday morning [this will be in November], one and a half million injections of protection against COVID were given in Estonia and 218 notifications of serious adverse reactions were received by the Agency. Thus, one of the 6,000 vaccinees has been affected.' I will conclude by quoting this article. In the same story, however, it is said that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas believes that the creation of a vaccine damage fund would send the wrong signal to society. Kallas added that at present everyone with serious side effects has the opportunity to recover the damage from the vaccine manufacturer. This, however, does not correspond to reality. Well, it's a half-sister. I'm pretty sure the Prime Minister was aware of that. On 18 January, this is last week, when Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik went to the Commission, he answered my question, where I asked for clarification regarding the partnership between the vaccine producers of the COVID-19 vaccine and Estonia. I wanted to know who and on what legal basis Estonia has concluded agreements with. The Minister replied that the COVID-19 vaccine agreements concluded by the European Commission on behalf of the Member States were with the existing compensation mechanism. If, for example, for reasons beyond his own control, the manufacturer develops an adverse reaction in a situation where the vaccine itself is completely correct and correctly packaged, the manufacturer shall include the country in the case of such an adverse reaction if the patient turns to the manufacturer. The State comes to the aid of the producer and compensates for any loss if the producer remains guilty of the dispute. The Minister explained that this did not mean that the State or the producer would automatically pay, but that if the case was proved, it would not be the producer's responsibility or pay. Normally, the country does not have an intermediary, because if someone has requirements for a authorised pharmaceutical manufacturer, the patient will be able to contact the manufacturer directly. As a result of a legal dispute, the producer shall be obliged to compensate or not to compensate. The Minister also pointed out that for all vaccines, the state will come to the aid of the country, because for all other vaccine side effects, the only way to obtain compensation today is to go directly to the manufacturer. The Minister noted that creating the same opportunity for all vaccines is a decision of the Government of the Republic. He stressed that it does not extend to all medicines because there are thousands of them on the market and it is much more difficult to assess whether or not a person's condition deteriorated as a result of the medicine. He reasoned that since vaccinations are usually almost always carried out on healthy people because a person takes the vaccine as a preventive measure, it is assumed that vaccines are safer than other medicines. Several other countries have also put in place the same mechanism that compensation for vaccines is easier for people than for other medicines, so that people have a greater sense of courage to go into vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: what sensible decision can a person make if the government follows events and communication is controversial? We all remember that vaccination began with confusion, with or without willingness to give to everyone. The family doctor was given vaccines with a fingertip. Now family doctors need to patch the holes that have been made as a result of the decisions. Everyone remembers the cold store cluster hack as well. The test messages are also controversial today, and the coalition considers it appropriate to consider cockboxing rather than making decisions. Marko Pomerants wrote aptly last week: "People survive for a very long time without a restaurant, circular training and theatre, which cannot be said of restaurant and sports club owners or theater people themselves. " End of quote. We can watch, but I think we have a duty to react and act to eliminate the unreasonable so-called corona pass, to restore the rapid testing that the Fatherland has been proposing for a long time. The issue is also confusing with the need to set up a fund. Two and a half months ago, when this bill was put into procedure, the Prime Minister said that society was being given the wrong signal through the creation of a fund. The Minister for Health and Labour, however, carefully supported this idea. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask to support the draft of Isamaa and the idea of creating a vaccine damage fund in Estonia so that those who experience complications can get help. I thank you for your thought and I am ready to answer some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U13	Just a few are not enough, you have to answer everyone. Heiki Hepner starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You've already hinted at the Prime Minister's quote here, but I'd still read it out as a whole. Prime Minister Kallas has said: "We have also consulted with behavioural scientists, and since we now have people who are afraid of side effects, we are now sending a signal to many people that there is some kind of extensive damage to the vaccine and those who have fears are even more afraid. " That is what the Prime Minister said. Looking at today that we also have a draft of the Riigikogu coalition parties to create a vaccine damage fund in this Chamber, what do you think happened to the Prime Minister in the meantime? Has his fears changed or what made such a move?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U15	Thank you for your question. It's hard for me to judge. I'm not a behavioral scientist. And as the Prime Minister referred to the talks with the behaviorologists, I have not communicated with the behaviorologists in order to understand why or how the Prime Minister has behaved. However, when looking at the measures relating, for example, to the increase in electricity prices, he was initially negative, he said that he would not even take the proposals of the Centre Party on the table, because they were not worth discussing, and he later reached the point of supporting them in substance. It seems to be the same here that what the Minister of Health and Labour said from the beginning and carefully supported and thought the idea of funds to be reasonable, after all, in the coalition they finally came to the point that it makes sense. In my opinion, the only big problem that was raised with it is that it was included in the Patient Insurance Act, which is indeed a draft that has been prepared for very, very long years. I recall the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, where Professor Hele Everau recalled that in his time Minister Ossinovski promised to bring it on the table and solve it quickly, but we have it at the table today. And since the draft of the Fatherland, as I referred to in the Ironic Introduction, is urgent on the 76th day that we can discuss it here in Parliament, to put the draft, which has been discussed for many years with the target groups and the medical and patient representative organisations, to put the particularly urgent issue of the creation of a fund for the damage to the corona vaccine, is, in my view, completely absurd. But here it is either possible for Parliament to prove itself that we want to discuss matters in substance, or we are a rubber stamp. And because we want to create this fund quickly, we do not care about this whole system of patients' rights and medical rights, because it has already been agreed for us in a reasonable way. It's our choice. Now I got there with a really long curve about the Prime Minister's behavior, but that's the idea. And that reference, where the Prime Minister, I say, I really have not discussed with the behaviorologists, but it seems to me that it is reasonable for us to give this assurance to people. In my opinion, the more tools on the table that can be used to make a sensible decision, the better the result we get in society. And the creation of this fund is, in my opinion, one of those tools that we don't have on the table today. I also referred in my introductory text to the fact that when we say that people were also told at the beginning that there was no problem, that our right would allow us to turn to the pharmaceutical manufacturer, then, as I said, in practice last week, it turned out that we could turn to the pharmaceutical manufacturer, but the pharmaceutical manufacturer would turn to the Estonian state. And I find it dim that we actually had no legal regulation, and I find it incomprehensible, because neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for Health and Labour in his time indicated how these benefits would have been dealt with because there was no legal regulation for that. Is and from where would these possible benefits have been paid out, from the government reserve or from any other health care facilities of the Health Insurance Fund? These questions were all unregulated. So in this sense, we are, in any case, in a better position today than in November, where this quote comes from and where the draft of the Fatherland began.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U16	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! How can we ensure that as many people as possible who suffer the damage caused by the side effects of the vaccine are able to make sure that they are compensated and that this proof and confirmation does not lead to a long Kafka process that breaks their necks? If you listen to the Prime Minister, he has answered the question of how many people now have proven side effects, very small numbers, most of whom have been ambulance workers, which means that in fact we do not have a good real system to confirm these side effects. How could the system be improved so that those who have side effects and the damage caused by them can actually be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U18	Thank you for your question. I will answer again a little longer, and once again I have to go to the next item. And once again, I quote a good colleague from the Social Affairs Committee, Hele Everaus, who recalled that our medical system is special in some way in quotes. He is special in this context that when we look at either the United States or Great Britain or any other country, our doctors seem to be infallible. But in reality, of course, that is not the case. The problem is, in part, that we have not had a sound regulation and a system for this. This is probably what the questioner referred to. These processes have been very complex insofar as medical workers have been able to be punished in criminal proceedings and so on under current law. In reality, we do not have a reasonable analysis of the management of medication errors and medication errors, which, of course, is also necessary for the medical system itself. We all understand that a person is wrong and, of course, we are not talking about a malicious subject. Moreover, human organisms are very different, and none of us can fully predict what one medicine, treatment, or vaccine can do for one person or another. In this sense, unfortunately, we must admit that there is neither a mistake in human nature nor a plan in terms of medicinal and accompanying phenomena. Therefore, the most sensible thing is that we have reasonable and good regulation so that people can compensate for the damage caused by their medicines or treatments. And, of course, people don't trust this system if we make it too complicated and crazy. It is, in some ways, the question of whether and how sensible we can make these regulations. It depends on how difficult this is for people and whether it is considered reasonable, or whether it comes under the jurisdiction of lawyers and lawyers, or whether it is really helping people. So let's pull ourselves together and make this system reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U19	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U20	Thank you. Dear waitress, A few months ago, in this very hall, the Prime Minister stated that it is unreasonable to set up a compensation fund for vaccination damage, is not necessary and sends the wrong message to society. It is true that a few months have passed and the government has initiated a corresponding draft, unfortunately as the Brezhnev package, and I hope that the Riigikogu will have the common sense to separate these matters and to deal with them separately. But my specific question is: as an initiator, do you think that the creation of a vaccination damages fund would rather encourage voluntary vaccination and give people the confidence that the state is also engaged in and the person is not left alone with these potentially harmful effects, or vice versa, as the Prime Minister thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U21	I am absolutely convinced that this fund, as I said, is, in my view, an important part and a missing tool from today's table to achieve the results that are reasonable for man. Whether a person considers it reasonable to vaccinate himself or not, I believe that, first of all, a person must have a healthy decision of his own, because no one knows better than a person himself, what is good for him or her. Of course, in matters where we are not the most competent in the world, it makes sense to discuss it with our family doctor, who knows us and so on. But if you look at society more broadly, it makes sense that this vaccination damage fund is not just a medical issue. He's helping to compensate for medical damage, but he's obviously a social organization, just as we see a lot about COVID, the one that's been sending us for the last two years. I also get the impression that a lot of people seem to have something to do with science and medicine. No, most of the decisions are purely state-organized, so that we get as little paralyzed as possible by this virus, that many will be left untouched, that hospitals will not be filled. These are purely social issues that we will come out of this. And I think that, in order for people to make an adequate decision from their point of view, the state, the legislator, the government, must do everything in itself so that the person can make the best decision for himself. And certainly this creation of the fund will help a person make this decision better, because fear of what is so-called possible damage, and if you imagine what, at first, I remember, the Prime Minister said, or also the Minister of Health and Labour, that we have the right and the opportunity to address, as with all medicines, to the pharmaceutical manufacturer. I'm sorry, I think that every person, whether he's from Tallinn or Misso, doesn't imagine himself arguing with Pfizer about it and proving that he's been harmed by vaccination now. And besides, as I described it, we have never had this reasonable order at all, how patients, how to prove treatment errors, what these committees are. This is still a very rare issue for people, and it was also legally unregulated. And to imagine yourself fighting the giants, I think it's almost unthinkable for a normal person. And, in this sense, it is certainly the creation of a fund that will make a significant contribution to this, and certainly to the decision on vaccination, so that it can make this sensible decision. So I'm different from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U22	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U23	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question is this: now, the countries where such a fund has been made, do you see that vaccination has fallen dramatically and that the third dose has not been withdrawn at all? The claim that this raises people's doubts about me creates more confidence that the state is behind the citizen in any case, because we are all originally... Have you had any insight into these countries? And maybe just my little line is this. Why do you think he knows everything? It is, sun goddess, me, it is a country, I am infallible. It's offered by spinndoctors, and so it's the same spin there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U24	I now have specific statistics on the relationship, I don't know, between some second-third vaccine dose and the vaccine damage fund in different countries, not. However, it is well known that the countries that I have created before, where this vaccine damage fund has been made, have a much higher level of vaccination in society than in Estonia. From this point of view, as the most general conclusion, I can conclude that it adds to the person's confidence. Now, the question is whether he directs people more to vaccinate, or whether he allows people to make the decision that he considers most reasonable, is likely to vary from country to country. I do not know exactly how much coercion or hidden coercion has been imposed in different countries. Because now it is only as Austria's first country that there will be a coercion of defence, so far there has been enormous pressure on this vaccination in various societies. Since these medication errors have been there, everyone knows that medicines cause harm to people, of course also to vaccines, in this sense, in the rest of societies or in quite a number of countries, this fund has been set up today to make people feel safer. So I think it's time we just did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U25	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have two'same' draft laws on the table here today, and this is a very good example in this sense of how such a denial by the government after the opposition has started to talk about things, as they are, as the people feel, as the people say, it has forced the government to pull its legs out and to come up with its own initiatives on the subject. But just for the sake of clarity, why don't you do a very small short analysis of why the Pro Patria Bill is better than a government bill, why is it more mobile, efficient and just better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U27	Thank you. This analysis is difficult in this context, since the proposal of the Fatherland was to entrust the Government of the Republic with the task of drafting this draft. Now the government is working out. As I said, it is rather saddened that the first part of your question can be stated with you that the government will wake up when the opposition has made some moves or is able to come together more quickly. As I pointed out, the Minister of Health and Labour was cautious in November, considered it reasonable to set up a vaccine damage fund, the Prime Minister denied and said that it would give the wrong signal and that he had also communicated with behaviorologists who felt the same way as he did. I think the biggest problem with this virus is that we're following events, above all, the government. Since it has been discussed at length here that Parliament has not called for and taken on a bigger role, this is where we should shake the ashes on ourselves, so that we can also state afterwards if the government does or has failed to do something. But I think we're... If you look at what we are discussing in this Chamber 2.5 months ago, we are trying to begin to realise the ideas and ideas we have started and we really do not know, as I referred to, the draft on which I dare be critical in this context, which has been proposed in the government, because the Patient Insurance Act has really been discussed in the previous government, I remember where I argued with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice at the time, there were differences of opinion. As I pointed out, the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, has already discussed this issue. This is a very long prepared bill. And now I just get the impression that Parliament is considered to be the place where this bill is to be stamped. Because it's been discussed for years. We start after Siret Eagle and I leave this remote control, we start working on this bill, but others have been discussing it for years, and we should run it through in days or months, which I don't think makes any sense. And this is the most important difference that the draft decision of the Fatherland considered it important that the government deal specifically with the creation of the current corona virus vaccine damage fund. So that we do not take all the world's problems to solve at the same time in the context of this bill, because we need urgent solutions. We are discussing today the creation of a vaccine damage fund, which I say that it should have actually been done a long time ago. And as Tanel Kiik rightly said, he should actually have been done before November when this discussion we started. However, it is currently being discussed whether a corona passport is necessary in Estonia, what to do with rapid testing, whether to take into account the proportion of antibodies that exist in different countries. It's all there. So this is important. I think that instead of taking up a problem and solving it quickly, we have packed it as part of a long-term and complex process, and I do not think it makes sense for Parliament to resolve it in the next draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U28	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U29	Good manager! Good Priit! For nearly six months, the government has put in place a regime that requires vaccination against COVID-19. Do you understand why during this period it has not been possible to set up a vaccination damage fund? After all, behavioural scientists have indicated that this would help to remove the fears and concerns of those who hesitate to receive vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U30	Well, it is not possible to understand, because, as I said, although you referred anonymously to behaviorologists, in the opposite context, this has also been referred to by our Prime Minister, who has come to an exact opposite understanding of you with the help of behavioural scientists. In my opinion, we are certainly late in setting up this fund, because, as I have pointed out, this confusion and these hesitations are the ones that are increasing the alarm in society. And, of course, we all know and understand why we need the vaccine. Similarly, we have to realise that vaccines also cause certain damage. Of course, there are a small number of them, but I think that every person we hear and know and see, as I referred to in my introductory report to the article of the Postman of 11 November. We remember last week's Express was written. And we're starting to see these stories more and more and more and more and more, and it creates additional fear. And if we recall what it was like when family doctors wanted to vaccinate, deliver it to people, these vaccines basically got to them individually or in dozens of times. And then they weren't ready to give them to pharmacies that had performance, they did some gray stuff. And we also remember how one Sunday people were driven out of those tents that didn't meet the criteria, were too young, and so on. All this confusion, where, on the one hand, they want to move in that direction and, on the other hand, everything is being done to grow this mess. I think this is absurd. And the creation of this fund would be an easy opportunity, which, in my opinion, would have helped people get to better decisions faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U31	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you, Priit, maybe you have specific numerical data on how many side effects of the vaccine or these complaints have been recorded in this regard? Some numbers have been through here, and some very small, marginal part has been registered. Do you have, can you tell me that number?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U33	Thank you. I can refer to the November data that I found when preparing this report, and it was really there on 10, 11 November, there were reports of cases registered at the Health Insurance Fund, which was then 218, recorded at that time, which had a certain evidence base, that they were the side effects and symptoms caused by the effects of the vaccine, so to speak, then the vaccines. But in my opinion, no one has expected this to be some huge problem, but on the contrary, as we see, of course many or a large number of people survive the virus, some die, so is the case with vaccines. Most people are absolutely well affected, but certain people, with certain diseases, may have side effects, and in this sense, it would be reasonable to have a small amount anywhere in the world, and this is also the case with other vaccines, but a person must have the certainty and the possibility that if something happens to him, he will get help. Especially if this is happening in the way I described it, after all, we have organised this society and not just from medical... but from the fact that society comes through faster than this crisis, we have put a wide range of restrictions. And it is a clear and hidden coercion that people have not been able to do this, not only in terms of their health, but in fear of losing their jobs, social hysteria, fear of infecting someone else and so on. These reasons have been different and, in this sense, as I have repeatedly said, there must be as many of these tools on the table as possible so that people can make an adequate decision. Health decisions must be made in the light of a person's state of health and, of course, in the context of the future, either for protection or for better health. In this context, health requires these decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U34	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U35	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good Priit! Tell me. Look, we have this interesting practice in Parliament that if the opposition comes up with some kind of good bill, then, like amen in church some time later, the coalition comes up with something that counterbalances it. Possibly, I don't want to judge whether it's good or bad, it depends, and it's possible that it's a good thing that the urge of the opposition is so effective that it affects the coalition. But the fact is that in December you came... no, in November you came up with this bill and now in December, a month later, the coalition came up with it. But here's the very straightforward question. Given the circumstances that you have come up with this bill, today we are going to discuss more draft 522, the Liability Insurance Act, is it now, knowing the existing situation, your draft is now topical or is no longer topical?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U36	Thank you. I'm sure you can ask the chairman of the committee who's coming to the remote after me. I think, of course, that he is still topical, because the draft 522 to which you refer, as I have answered a number of questions previously, has been resolved there with the urgent issue of the Brezhnev package, which has been prepared in the Ministry for the right long years. As I said, since regaining independence, we have not been regulated in Estonia as regards the relationship between doctors and patients, the insurance between us and so on. And now we're assuming that this... My understanding has also been that the government hoped that people could make their decisions and defend themselves. This urgent decision, which would now have contributed to the creation of this fund, and it is really great that the government has reached it, however, that they also consider this measure to be reasonable. Although I think, I'm telling you, they're following events. Because today, in fact, the government itself, when we are legally discussing the creation of a fund here, they are likely to start discussing at least one of the coalition partners yesterday, said to the public and discussed on the Internet whether to bring back rapid testing and remove some of the restrictions. I understand that the other partner still disagrees. I very much hope that it will also be realised in this context that, in this state, and in the context of the new strain of the virus, where both grafted and non-grafted people are found, almost in the same way as the previous strains, where this difference was still significantly more noticeable, it is now no longer like this. Well, all the limitations and understandings we have are changing in time. And it would be extremely reasonable for us to go along with our decisions, not to follow events just two or two and a half months apart, wouldn't it? The fact that we are now resolving in the next draft law, 522, where a really very long complex set of measures has been put together, with this urgent matter, is certainly not what I consider reasonable. I very much hope that the people in this Chamber will understand that it is reasonable to keep these things separate and separate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U37	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U38	Good manager and waitress! I remember when we were talking about Child Welfare Day here, two or three lines of the bill, but the question was, who's got the right thing? For a year, the water went out when it could be accepted. Well, we recently filed a quick test, sent to a trash can. Well, yeah, like you said, a coalition partner says yes, smart, should do it. Well, now the same thing about making a fund today, the same thing again that the opposition has come up with some sort of thing, but the coalition, I don't know if it's stealing or embezzling it or, in any case, that its flag is waving. Your career in Parliament is longer. Is it that the opposition is like useful idiots may come out, but who are in the government, they look at what they take and snatch and then wave and say, "Honor and praise to us."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U39	I have a request for you, good Peter, not to label yourself or us, or to look like this. In this sense, it is unwise to label itself in this way, neither in this Chamber nor in public. But I guess that's a policy way of doing it. Unfortunately, it is rare for the borders of the coalition and opposition to disappear. Although you also pointed out that with this draft, where the correct wording was found in relation to Child Welfare Day, either with or without the flag, and what exactly the wording must be and each had to propose its own draft. Of course he's weird, but that's the way we've shaped our political culture, we're the only ones who can change it here. Steal or not? That makes sense. The opposition can come up with ideas much easier. Nor did we present it together with the other opposition parties, but on our own. Really, it's easier to find a common sense with you, it's much more difficult to do in a coalition. But I think the problem is two places. First of all, at this speed, and secondly, if this communication is controversial and complicated, as I referred to in the current coalition, yes, in the case of electricity, now I see that a new cock box arises between these same rapid testing and limitations. On the one hand, as a human being, it bothers me, but on the other hand, I am pleased that these issues are being dealt with, because that is the only assumption and hope that anything will change at all. Because if both parties in the coalition were satisfied with the existing situation, there would be no change at all. And I guess it's just going to take them a little longer to negotiate, raise the commies. And just as you say, pulling the blanket is not only a question of coalition and opposition, but also inside the coalition, everyone wants to see whether the blanket is greener or yellower, which is being pulled to one side or the other. It takes its time, and unfortunately it's at the expense of all of us. Of course, it would make sense, with the opposition's drafts, to push the sled and drive down the hill, we would be able to get the result faster, and if we were driving there, we would be able to pull the blankets this way and this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question for both rapporteurs to deal with the draft decision, so that Kruusimäe, Puustusmaa and Kaalep can ask the chairman of the committee their second question. And more members of the Riigikogu see no questions for Priit Sibula. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U41	Thank you very much. I recall the call for support for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U42	And now I would like to ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U43	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to create a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by Side Effects of Vaccinating the Corona Virus" submitted by the Isamaa Group was discussed 482 on 17 January this year. The bill was presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Isamaa Group, who also did so here today. He stressed that a fund should be set up as soon as possible to compensate for the adverse effects of vaccination against coronavirus. No amendments had been tabled by the deadline, and the Commission took the following decisions: to put the following on the plenary agenda on 25 January, today (this was consensus), to appoint Siret Kotka (consensus) as the representative of the lead committee and to hold a final vote on the draft (consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U44	Well, Tarmo Kruusimäe can now ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U45	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Chairwoman of the good committee! Good people who watch us on the Internet! The processing of draft decision 482 is ongoing and is a proposal to the Government of the Republic to set up a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by Side Effects of Vaccination Against Corona Virus. Thus, the Fatherland Party has carried out its task. And the fact that there is no coalition in this Chamber today is the rescue of the face of the so-called coalition, because there is a requirement of 51 votes. They don't come into this hall, and they don't have to vote against it because the task has been given, and the Government of the Republic is already doing it, a little bad, but you can't want any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U46	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U47	Yeah, the negotiations are just coming. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Siret! Of course, I very much want to believe that you have analysed this draft in a very thorough and in-depth manner in the Commission, 482. And that is why I am asking: did you also discuss in the Commission what costs or financial burdens would be involved in adopting this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U49	Thank you. As regards the draft decision and the costs of the Fatherland, no member of the Commission asked the question. Nor did Priit Sibul, as rapporteur for the Isamaa Group, raise this issue. So there's no record of that in the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U51	Good manager! Good waitress, good Siret! Give a bit of an overview of what you actually discussed in the committee with this draft and whether you also considered what the failure to create this fund, how it has affected the confidence of the Estonian people in the action of the government in the korona struggle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U52	Thank you. Since the Isamaa Group had a proposal, we dealt with it on Monday, 17 January and 18 January, the draft law came by the Government of the Republic, which was then the draft law on compulsory liability insurance for health care providers, which in turn deals with the insurance of vaccine damage, the initiative or proposal by the Members of the Commission did not have much discussion. However, the next item we have in the Riigikogu found a debate where there were quite a number of questions and answers that I can present at the next item of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U53	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U54	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Siret, I have a question for you, as committee chairman, about what prevented us from discussing this draft earlier. Was it really necessary to wait for this government bill? If I also look at the understanding of the Minister of Health and Labour of the Centre Party, so that it would be reasonable to resolve this issue, he reached his understanding at the same time as the draft came into existence. What do you think we expected in the committee, or what did you expect us not to take this debate? And why do you consider it reasonable to discuss this urgent issue with a very long-developed topic that will be discussed at the next item on the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U55	Thank you. As regards the draft decision submitted by the smaller political group, according to our laws, as a result of how we deal with it, we have seven working weeks to deal with it. Accordingly, the Commission also acted on the basis of this procedure. As regards whether this could be dealt with in the past, frankly, neither any Group of the Fatherland nor any other Member of the Commission raised the question that we should address it earlier. As far as this reimbursement fund or vaccine damage insurance is concerned, in order to support this idea, yes, this is indeed what Minister Tanel Kiik repeatedly referred to last year as being developed by the government. And today we can watch it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U56	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U57	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. In response to Priidu, it seems that Priit should be in charge of the Commission. A draft will be submitted at the beginning of November and will be processed during the last working week of January. A thing or a subject that's very important. Is that the idea that for three months, everything could be lying around somewhere, so it's important? It is expected that if the incompetent minister has not reached the Riigikogu before his draft, then nothing else should be discussed before, which is actually necessary and long-awaited for Estonian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U58	Thank you, good Aivar! In life, the principle is that there is all thought, word, and action. If we look at this draft decision now, it's an idea and a word, it's like this part. Now that we are talking about the next item, which we already have in plenary, it is an act. So we are actually talking about the work on the next item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U59	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I am, frankly, really embarrassed after receiving the last two questions. I understand that the coalition, knowing the health crisis, is not in a hurry to solve it, because they do not intend to make sense or speak in this regard, and they hope that at some point the act will stop without thought and word. That still worries me a little bit. My question is whether there has been a feeling in the Commission that we have had occasional COVID and a health crisis in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U61	Thank you. I do not understand your confusion, in the sense that this is very clearly today in our big hall ♪ this is a bill 552 that we are dealing with at the next item on the agenda, where there is also a minister, where there are all those thoughts about how patient insurance should be, how vaccine damage insurance should be, where members of the Riigikogu can immediately ask questions, express opinions and after that, I believe that if it goes through the first reading in this large hall, everyone will be able to table amendments. So there's a process going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U62	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We are discussing the point here, which is then a compensation fund for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccination, and you here very proudly referred to how the next item on the agenda will then be the act of the government. And that's kind of a point we have here, like the draft law on mandatory liability insurance. The word "insurance" already reminds me of what happened to the most recent musician in Mexico, where he also had insurance and eventually had to ask the public for money to get his health right until the insurance started discussing it on the basis of media pressure. I don't know, maybe it's too premature for you to say it's an act that we don't know the quality of it. Or can you now, on behalf of the government, say that this insurance is not what starts to think and do that, and only when there is public pressure will there be compensation for something, unlike a fund that would immediately try?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U64	Thank you, good Kert! Like you, like me, like all the other 99 members of the Riigikogu, we can all create, take a step to do so, so that this subsequent bill is really good, simple and understandable for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U65	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems to me personally, using the words of a good colleague, Erki Savisaar, that you have everything messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt. The question is that we are recalling now means that we are currently dealing with the proposal to the Government of the Republic to create a fund for compensation for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccination against corona virus. It's a specific thing that whoever's been injured, we'll make it up to you. The law that you have already announced here, the law on compulsory liability insurance for health care providers, is not similar to that in my view, because this law, which we will discuss later on, has significant shortcomings in relation to the side effects of this vaccine. How can you compare these two drafts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U67	Thank you. As far as Erki Savisaar's words are concerned, they were very well spoken to you yesterday at the ELAK session. However, as regards the proposal of the Isamaa Group to set up a fund, the Commission looked at it, addressed it and decided that it was the final vote and the Riigikogu could then decide whether or not additional is needed. In parallel, the Government of the Republic has come up with a bill, which is then a vaccine damage insurance, which in fact very clearly regulates how people can claim compensation if they have side effects as a result of the vaccine. It's in the next bill. I think the Minister will be very clear about this, and if necessary, I can introduce it myself as chairman of the committee. But this is the next bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U68	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We can argue for a long time whether a thought is an act and at what point the word becomes an act. Let's keep it right now. But maybe you have some formula or advice for us on how some of the opposition's ideas could be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U70	I think the opposition is doing a very good job. And I think that the fact that the draft decision was submitted was already a very good idea. And I think, in cooperation, we actually see this, what our social expectations are, that it could be, whether we call it insurance or a fund, that we actually see in one form or another in the next draft, so we can continue to discuss the subject that vaccine damage should actually be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U71	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Siret! In fact, my point is that these are two different things, the fund and the insurance. They both support certain problematic solutions. And I believe you also understand that the fund is a fund that is earmarked for operational activities. Insurance is what subsequently insures certain expenses. Do you really think that insurance will replace the fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U73	Thank you. Whether we have a fund or insurance depends on all the members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber when the final vote comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U74	No more requests or questions. Thank you! During the negotiations, I remind everyone, the representatives of the political groups and committees can speak. If you come to the chair, it is on behalf of the group. On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U75	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I have no idea why today's coalition is running in any way. During the last coalition, the COVID crisis began. When COVID arrived in Estonia in March, in one month he was able to make all the decisions and solve the problems, both at government and Riigikogu level, by adopting an additional budget. If I listen today to the presentation and answer of the Commission's leader, it will appear that the proposals proposed by the opposition should be made by them. I must admit that the draft proposed by the Fatherland at the beginning of November has also been proposed rather late. In fact, it should literally have been from the moment the vaccination started a year ago, whether the same bill was on the table, two things together. We are constantly saying that we do not have compulsory vaccination. But it is, after all. We have 72% of adults vaccinated today. This means that over a quarter of people cannot participate in many social events. They can't go to dinner, restaurants, dining places, they can buy along. There is also a great deal of concern in this regard for entrepreneurs, starting with the catering side and ending with the cultural sector. In my opinion, if I had been the representative of the Commission here, I would have said that it was very good that such a proposal was made. You see, in two months, the government has managed to come to this big hall with a bill to solve the problem. And it would have taken the words out of the mouth of the questioners, frankly, because what are you still saying? But the answer was, well, you can do what you want, actually, at the next point, we'll start discussing it and then ask the Minister. In fact, the Riigikogu Commission also has a very important role to play. And the Commission's leadership has a very important role to play. Which draft will be put on the agenda for the week is, in fact, literally the decision of the chairman of the committee. It is accepted or not by the Members of the Commission, but that is the way it is. When we look at last year, in April we started by preventing excise duties from rising from May this year. It was discussed until mid-September, then it was agreed to be okay. There was a debate right here in this hall about who the second pension pillar was voluntary or not. Finally, the Supreme Court made a decision, the state budget receives much more social tax. But last week, when we were discussing whether or not we were supporting the elderly, we only had one person from the coalition in this Chamber. Hat off! The way in which we vote, yes, will be agreed in a political group, and so he will often be in this Chamber. However, it is the responsibility of each member of the Riigikogu to listen to proposals and debates before he or she makes a vote. It's still the same compensation today. Who or what or where that money comes from. As I understand it, when the Fatherland proposed... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U76	Three more minutes, you mean? Mr. Chef, three more minutes, extra time? You're just saying three minutes, please. You need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U77	Yeah. A little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U78	Got it. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U79	When Fatherland proposed to the Government of the Republic that a fund be set up to compensate for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccination against the Corona virus, he did not mean that the money should come from the sickness fund. We often have members of the Riigikogu in this Riigikogu who have not understood one of the biggest problems. Two areas: one is the health fund, the other is the social sector, or the support of our elderly, people with special needs and children. Then there are the money from the social tax, which has always been negative in the country and is covered by other revenues. We know the Health Insurance Fund's budget is in red. In the case of the state budget, we have added additional resources in practically all years. And now we're saying that we're going to make one of the next laws for insurance, which we're going to take money from the Health Insurance Fund. For whom or for what? Is it on account of the fact that in hospitals, the queues are still increasing? We're about to have a minister at this table, we can ask him a question, but I have to admit that today the situation has reached the point that there are three months to see a doctor with a little child. Three months! It's not usually because someone's coughing or having a bit of a fever, but it's still the parents who are worried about getting in line. I hope that the government will act faster, as it is currently debating whether or not a vaccine certificate is needed now or whether or not tests should be carried out. We have been discussing this subject here for six months. Now the government is finally discussing it. We've been talking about making a fund for years, finally the next bill will come. I hope that today's Riigikogu Hall could support the proposal of the Fatherland for a simple reason: the government is dealing with it, after all, there is nothing against it. However, when I realised from the presentation by the Commission's leader that this issue was, as was practically not discussed in the Commission, because the next point will come anyway, it is sad. That's sad. I hope that everyone in the Chamber will support the proposal to the Government of the Republic to set up a fund to compensate for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccination against the Corona virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U80	Kert Kingo, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! We are now discussing the draft decision "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to set up a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by the Side Effects of Vaccination Against the Corona Virus" because the Government does not want to be held responsible for its decisions. The government does not want to take responsibility for the possible consequences of their decision. It was the government that decided that a certain percentage of people should be vaccinated. Quickly, quickly. Target groups were different. At first, it was said that older people had to be vaccinated, then the scale was moved forward until they reached five-year-olds. In order to achieve this, no funds were chosen. The original nature of the risk analysis was changed and the risk analysis was turned into a tool for releasing people if they did not vaccinate themselves. People were forced and pressured by every means possible, especially by the loss of a job. Then restrictions were put in place to separate unvaccinated people from society. People were unable to participate in normal everyday activities; they could not attend cultural events; they could not go to catering facilities; they could not go to museums; they could not go to saunas. The government focused only on vaccination. I would point out that we are talking about vaccination, but actually, in the case of a corona vaccine, we can talk more about substances that are unfinished with safety studies. I would like to remind you that, in order for the government to achieve its own, vaccination tents were quickly erected and vaccination buses were put in place, where all those who wanted and wanted were vaccinated without saying it. No one was counseled by doctors, no one was discussed about his health, whether these substances were suitable for him, fit for his health or not, whether there might be consequences, or if there would be complications. It was the percentage that mattered. As a result, more and more people experienced adverse reactions as a result of the injection of these substances. That's very soft. People also had very serious health problems, and there were deaths. They didn't want to hear it, they didn't want to admit it, because the government didn't want to take responsibility. It was only intended to vaccinate, i.e. inject for the same vaccination to obtain the desired percentage. This was due to the fact that those people who had already had some health problems concentrated in groups, social media groups where they complained about their concerns, discussed these side effects, the diseases they had developed, the effects they had created. They couldn't count on their government, they couldn't count on anyone. They need to discuss these concerns with each other on social media; this is not a normal situation. And the government is pretending that we don't have problems and that we don't need a fund either. Some people are disabled, can never work again, can't make normal money, but the government thinks we don't need this fund. That won't be necessary. The worst part is that the same government is saying: we care about people, we make a better life for everyone. But where are you now, where are you all now, when we need to help people, when the consequences have arisen and they are real? It doesn't help that we make a face, or the government makes a face... More minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U82	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U83	... if the government pretends they don't think it is and they don't admit it, and so there's no problem, the problem is people. That is why I call on all the ambassadors to think that there is an election time ahead, where you will all begin to speak again in a loud voice, how you all care about individuals, care about people and apply it to action, because this vaccine damage fund is what really helps those people who have actually suffered these injuries, health problems, or the family where they have lost a loved one's life because of the same substances that the government imposed on unelected people. I call on you all to seek your conscience and vote in favour of this bill, not to run away again from this hall with the argument that we have another point, too, where there is some kind of vaccine insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U84	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to establish a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by the Side Effects of Vaccinating Corona Virus" 482. We are going to vote on the commission's proposal for a final vote, and that is what we are going to do. I would point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to adopt the draft as a decision. I shall therefore put to the vote the draft decision 482. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U85	The proposal was supported by 31 members of the Riigikogu, against 25. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U86	Our second item today is the first reading of the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour of the Chair, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U87	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and good members of the Riigikogu! Today we are pleased to introduce you to the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers, 522, which we are creating in parallel systems for patient insurance and compensation for vaccine damage, as well as, in fact, additional legislation in order to introduce certain anti-COVID-19 medicines more easily at first level. But now, with regard to the main content, patient insurance is compulsory liability insurance for health care providers. This draft sets out its principles, as well as the basis and extent of the damage to patients. The aim of creating a new system is, of course, better protection for patients, easier compensation, thereby also increasing patient safety. Compared to the current solution, the need for a person to go to court or to have one argument with health care institutions disappears. From now on, the patient can turn to the insurer who provides insurance to a specific health institution, deals with the case, and I repeat, the decision to compensate for the loss. The damage will be compensated up to certain thresholds depending on the size of the damage. It also addresses the issue of better protection of patients' interests. As I have pointed out, it increases patient safety, helps to carry out and provide people with better quality care, also promotes communication, learning from medication errors, and, of course, the aim is to prevent them. The establishment of a new system will allow treatment institutions and doctors to better address all possible threats, medication errors and potential risk factors in the future, as indicated, and to learn lessons from them. Together with the introduction of liability insurance regulation, we will also modernise the quality of health care and patient safety requirements. The law establishes specific procedures for reporting incidents in order to prevent incidents of danger and harm and thereby improve the quality and safety of health services. The creation of patient insurance is a long-awaited step in the field of health, which was discussed long before I joined the Minister's office, perhaps for a decade, some say that 20 years have been said and indeed such a clear step is, one can say, towards the organisation of the Nordic, Western health system. The draft has been drawn up by a working group composed of representatives of patients, doctors and nurses, family doctors, dentists, hospitals, private health institutions, the University of Tartu and the Estonian Insurance Association. In addition, experts in insurance law, the Ministry of Justice, the prosecutor's office, were also involved in the development. This draft has already been passed through formal rounds of coordination in 2019 and has in the meantime also been updated during the current government and now presented to Parliament for discussion. The Patient Insurance Act is designed to enter into force in full from 1 July 2024. The transitional period is for different healthcare providers to be able to enter into the necessary insurance contracts, to make the necessary IT system developments, all other such preparations for the start-up of this system. Another important block of this bill is the so-called vaccine insurance or the treatment of vaccine damage. Perhaps with the draft, we will amend the pharmaceutical law and provide for such a vaccine insurance. The aim of the vaccine insurance is, on the one hand, to encourage people to vaccinate, thereby better protecting themselves from various dangerous infectious diseases. By creating it, we give people confidence in decision-making and, at the same time, which is also very important, we support those people who have really developed a rare, rare but serious side effect resulting in health damage as a result of vaccination. We want, on the one hand, to encourage people to opt for vaccination and, at the same time, to give them this assurance that if something very rare happens, the country will support them here. A person who has suffered serious health damage due to vaccination will have the opportunity to claim compensation for the damage at the rate prescribed by law, depending on the severity of the damage. The draft provides for compensation if the patient has suffered serious health damage due to vaccination, which lasts for at least four months, or if the person leaves us and is at least likely to have a link between the damage to health and the vaccination. It is never always possible to relate one hundred percent of these things, to determine the relation of one hundred percent, but it is enough for the Agency and other experts in the field to assess this relationship as likely. In turn, the bill introduces a compulsory premium for vaccine distributors, the amount of which depends on the number of doses of vaccine marketed in Estonia and the rate of payment set at government level, which will be reviewed every year. The insurance contributions cover the costs incurred by the sickness insurance fund and the Agency by processing and paying out claims for benefits. In the first year, or this year, we will focus on COVID-19 medicines and this is where the National Health Board and the State, which is where the state will make up the necessary funds both to create IT developments and to compensate for these benefits. From now on, starting next year, such a market-based solution will already take place. The provisions necessary to create it are included in the Pharmaceutical Act. And as I pointed out, this bill actually starts in two phases. From 1 May 2022, the aim is already to start the assessment, treatment of COVID-19 vaccine damage, as well as payments in the context of health damage during 2021 and 2022, and to compensate for possible more serious adverse reactions of other vaccines from next year. By other vaccines, we refer not only to the national immunisation programme, but also to the influenza vaccine, tick encephalitis vaccine, different travel vaccines, i.e. all the vaccinations carried out in Estonia. As I referred to earlier, there are also certain changes concerning COVID-19 medications. The aim is that if new medicines that have not yet been subject to in-depth discussions, price fixings, are introduced, the state would still be able to fully compensate, compensate and introduce them to patients through the first stage. For example, here we are talking about Pfizer-BioNTech's Paxlov or Molnupiravir, which has also come to the market in some places, so that their reimbursement system is as simple as possible, convenient and legal clarity about how this is done in order to avoid possible future disputes. Similar situations may occur in the future, so it is justified to change the law in this view. But thank you and I'll be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U88	And the questions will be started by Priit onion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a question about this vaccine damage issue and about the COVID vaccines. If, on other occasions, the importers have the right to choose whose medicines they bring, from whom they buy, with which prices and things, this is quite different for COVID. In the case of Estonia, Minister Kiik sends the Excel table to the European Commission, who concludes these contracts, that how much, when and under what conditions the medicinal product is delivered to Estonia. Perhaps, in principle, the importers perform logistics problems in some form... or, well, solve logistics issues to a large extent. I have a question as to why, in the case of these vaccines, if you call this threshold, what the importers have to pay, also works for the COVID vaccines. It is as if I do not fully understand that their role is almost non-existent in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U90	Thank you. Actually, in the case of COVID-19 vaccines, there is a special arrangement, as I described. In the case of COVID-19 vaccines, the Health Board is essentially a wholesaler. Perhaps the Health Board is the one who has been allocated state funds on the basis of a state order, or by the government, depends on how we take it for a variety of COVID-19 vaccines, bringing them to the country. And in their case, this vaccine dose-based payment does not actually apply, i.e. its cost is actually covered by the State. For the side effects of vaccines against COVID-19, it is estimated that we have accounted for an amount of EUR 1 million in government expenditure for 2021 and 2022. In addition, there are a few hundred thousand euros of different administrative and IT costs associated with the start-up of this system. From now on, he'll be a wholesaler subject. With regard to the future of the COVID-19 vaccines, here, the honourable questioner, depends on whether in the future the COVID-19 vaccines will be 'free market goods' brought to the country by different wholesalers and importers. Then they have the same rules as the flu vaccine. However, if there continues to be such a special regime, the state's own role and the obligation to compensate for and compensate for this damage also apply here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U92	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here in the bill that it is clear in Estonian that the bill is not related to any other draft pending. But a moment ago, or was I dreaming? We were just discussing a similar bill. The question is whether I can't read or whether the draft we just voted on has nothing to do with it. But the other side is that Parliament recently voted down our draft rapid testing. Is there hope, and when, that the government coalition will soon come up with the same or similar thing and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U93	Thank you. Then let's start at the beginning. As I said before, patient insurance has been spoken for ten years or more, longer than I may have been in politics at all, I have such a feeling, and for longer than so many have been able to discuss this issue in this House. Maybe patient insurance issues are old. It is very good that we have reached the real draft that has now been passed on to Parliament, an apology. The vaccine insurance side, really, this debate is somewhat more recent. This debate was brief when we started vaccination, i.e. a year ago, also what the role and responsibility of the state should be here. At the time, very little was known about the side effects. At the time, there was an initial assessment that vaccination may be mainly for risk groups. We didn't know the quantities back then. Perhaps at that point, even more than a year ago, this period, which I am talking about now, was perhaps not the most critical issue to deal with. However, this issue was actually raised at the time, particularly in the area of health. A more serious discussion came when we saw the different side effects of the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaxzervia, in particular, as well as the more serious side effects of the Janssen vaccine both in Estonia and elsewhere that occurred. And also this knowledge that this vaccine will be indicated, recommended or even necessary for participation in society in a very large part of Estonian society, so as not to say almost everyone, depending on age. Today, everyone in Estonia is vaccinated from the age of five. It is true, however, that this concerns adults and the 12+ age group, where this COVID certificate is also valid, in a larger and more active way. Perhaps in the autumn we started this debate again, discussed it in the government, discussed it in Parliament as well. Then there were really different suggestions, different ideas. There were also at the beginning in this respect, I felt, sceptical parties who have changed their minds today, also here in the opposition ranks, and which I only welcome. Perhaps in this light, we have now come with the government's decision on these two drafts that patient security, vaccine insurance, both are dealing with similar concerns, i.e. increasing patient safety, improving health quality, from a somewhat different angle. But I think that the whole treatment, together treatment, is entirely justified. So that's a long answer to your question. Of course you can relate it to the draft decision initiated by the Fatherland, but the substantive decision at government level was, of course, taken before that, and in this light, I am pleased that these drafts have reached this Parliament or the draft has reached this Parliament as a whole. Now this other side, the debate on the rapid tests. Today, in the cabinet, we really listened to the proposals, thoughts of the scientific council. It's all on the same page that sooner or later we're gonna have to ease the rules of the COVID. At present, the main concern is that the spread of the virus is still in the rising phase. The numbers of hospitals have not yet shown a downward trend, even here, either stabilisation or a slight increase, which is why the proposal and recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board was really still not to introduce these rapid tests as one of the alternative proofs of infection safety, but the Scientific Advisory Board also supports this debate and debate in order to gradually return to the normal situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U94	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm reading about this patient's insurance from 1 July 2024, then I'm reading about the coercive insurance for vaccine damage, then I'm reading about the system's cost of 1.4 million, then I'm reading about some other kind of benefits that are covered by insurance premiums. I have a question for you that it's like a Kört-Pärt shirt, I just don't get it. Explain, please, who will arrange this insurance? Are these insurance companies, are they interested, have they been spoken to? Or is it a health insurance fund or is it an medical agency? Who's gonna lead this whole process? Who's gonna deal with this? All these things require time, money, resources, all other things. I would very much ask, my question is specific: who is organising this process? I would ask for a specific answer. Ten minutes of lecture is very complicated, I'm losing my mind, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U96	Thank you. Let's get slices. One side is the liability insurance of health care providers, i.e. patient insurance, and there, as I have pointed out, representatives of insurance companies and business representatives have been involved in the working group from the outset. It will be the task of any health service provider, or hospital or family doctor's centre, or any other such institution, to find an insurance partner, or insurance company, with which he or she will take out insurance to compensate the patient for various medical errors if they occur. And that is why it is a long transitional period, the same July 1, 2024, that the same hospitals, primary level and other hospitals will find the necessary insurance partner. These insurances also exist today, which is not a new thing in itself. The new one is that it becomes mandatory, so it will be required for everyone. Today he is actually essentially the health institution's own decision as to whether he will make insurance or, figuratively speaking, he will argue with each patient one at a time if any such situation occurs. From now on, it can, it is a unified system that will certainly be more reasonable and comfortable for the patient. He knows he's insurance, he knows where to turn. The other half is about vaccine damage, i.e. vaccine insurance. In fact, it is the state that will play a more important role here, i.e. that the sickness fund will be the one to process their claims for benefits. The Agency will assess whether there is a relationship to a specific vaccine, this side effect, or no health damage, including naturally doctors. And in that case, the person will be paid out by the sickness fund. What is this obligation? The health partners have these different wholesalers, importers, pharmaceutical manufacturers marketing vaccines, they start paying such a dose-based payment at a certain rate of payment, and this rate will be set at the end of each year for the following year, which will cover the costs of reimbursement. These are actually two different systems, two different solutions. But in both cases, these debates have taken place with the parties in the sector, how and who will pay compensation in one case or another and cover the costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U97	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U98	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I think it was a bit of a wrong decision when we gave all the thickest jobs to that Health Service, but let it be. In the information war we have lost, and as a result people have had a lot of doubts and doubts. The four new PR people who recruited us on 28 April 2020 proved not to be the best choices either. They started banging people who had doubts, that lameman. It is a very good bill that now the state actually comes behind the patient and gives him this confidence. The question is how much we might have been ahead of time if we had not made these mistakes and given the whole thick end to the Health Board, not that Parliament had decided it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U99	Thank you. I must, of course, now ask back, or rather I will try to answer in my reply, that I did not understand whether you meant the coarse end in communication or in the vaccination process or in the imposition of restrictions or in what, because the government is imposing restrictions. Vaccination... [[Tarmo Kruusimäe specifies the hall.]] Well, it's not all for the Health Board to decide in Estonia. There are still different actors in the health field, there is a government, there are ministries and so on. On the subject of communication, I certainly agree that there is always a better way to call someone flat country. I don't know if it's really been done by a communication team, I hope it isn't. But as far as these specific drafts are concerned, it would certainly have been better, as usual, 'would' is a bad thing if we had done the same thing ten years ago and today there would have been working systems. In the COVID crisis, so patient insurance would have been available, vaccine insurance would have been available, all clarity-simpleness, just like in a number of countries, such as Finland. There was no problem, there was a system earlier, extra money was allocated, everyone knew how the system worked, nothing new was being invented. Our country's specificity is that in the area of health, we may not yet be as social, just, at Nordic level as we want to be, but this bill will definitely lead us in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U100	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I am asking about this basic draft, to which you have last grafted, then also, in connection with this vaccination. I would also ask for the view that, compared to today, where and how doctors will insure themselves, what role the Health Insurance Fund will play, what kind of insurance companies, how much thanks to the adoption of this budget or its draft in the state budget, I do not know whether the Health Insurance Fund or who will receive additional funds to make this insurance, and what will change exactly for the patient. How will this system work to make sure that patients receive compensation for medication errors?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U102	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning. Perhaps health care providers themselves will insure their own institution, their own 'workers', in this light, or rather, in their own institution, any medical errors, regardless of who are specifically doctors-sisters, health care professionals in this situation. As you know, often in medicine there is not one person who deals with a patient but is a healthy group, and this possible medication error can occur at any moment during this treatment. Of course, everyone is doing their best to avoid it, let it be said. Perhaps for doctors-sisters, health professionals, the situation gets more simple, more comfortable, more understandable. There are health care institutions that conclude these insurances with insurance companies. In turn, its so-called financial cost, we have counted, it will be in the order of a few million euros, the exact amount here is very difficult to say, because negotiations with insurance companies are actually starting, i.e. they have been talking about a three to four million scale. In fact, it also depends on how much in real life there will be these various damages, various benefits and what offers in the future will also be offered by insurers, insurance companies, which will then in turn provide them to different health care institutions. For the patient, the difference is that since today's patient's choices are broadly whether he or she can reach one agreement with the hospital or, for example, with the health institution or he or she will go to court, now he or she can turn to the insurance company and the insurance company will actually settle this compensation in accordance with the procedure. Of course, this decision can also be challenged. We also had a debate, if you remember, the time we joined the government together to create such a separate fund, or, let's say, a patient insurance fund, so that there is a specific place where all patients turn, regardless of what the company is or what the insurance is. This foundation isn't here yet. The point is that it may be created later if it proves reasonable and justified. Right now, we're going to make it kind of thinner, probably cheaper. As a fund, he would be even more comfortable for the patient, he knows exactly that he is a patient safety fund, he turns there, he doesn't care what the health care institution is, what the insurance company or contract is, it's all in the background. But it will be possible to start or create more later when we see that it becomes necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U103	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U104	Thank you, Minister. My question concerns an issue that has already been addressed at the end of this, but to understand better, I will ask you one more time, and perhaps you can speak further. Is it true that now, in the case of vaccines, the importer will pay the so-called tithe, generally except in the case of coronal vaccines, where the Health Board finances the fund? Is that so, and what is the logic of why we treat these different vaccines differently in this way? Such seasonal, specific vaccines can and will continue to develop today, flu vaccines, and so on, which society offers free of charge to certain target groups. Why have they been approached differently when they have been approached differently, as I have now understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U105	Thank you. It is true that such an additional'tithing' or payment rate will indeed be required for the importers of medicinal products, for wholesalers. According to the agreement, we do not assume that a wholesaler or a particular importer will somehow cover it at the expense of its other expenses or revenues, but that it will be possible to add to the statutory mark-up the amount that is this dose payment. If we talk, as I said, about COVID vaccines, then here really is the importer, or wholesaler, the state, or Health Board, and that is why the state is paying them itself. For other vaccines, influenza vaccines, tick encephalitis vaccines and other vaccines, the importer will be a wholesaler there and buy these vaccines in the country. There, in fact, the country partially compensates, indeed, when we are talking, for example, about vaccines under the national immunization plan or the vaccination of the elderly against influenza, but for a very large number of target groups, the vaccine is acquired by the person himself. For example, if a person under 65 wants to vaccinate himself against the flu, it's his expense, the same way that I want to vaccinate against tick encephalitis, for example, or if I want to go on a trip. Therefore vaccination against COVID and all other vaccines are somewhat different. However, it can be said that the user's view is probably not very different here, rather it is the difference in settlement between the state and the wholesalers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U106	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Of course, it's nice to hear you say you can't call anyone lame. However, this does not make up for what has been done all these months through the media and also in the government circles, taunting and derogatory people who are sceptical about the corona vaccines. There are more and more new facts and studies that show that people who have been skeptical have been right from the start. That is why I would ask that, if we now talk a great deal about compensation for vaccine damage, wouldn't it be best to prevent these vaccine damage in the first place? For example, you are, and the government has taken a clear course towards mass vaccination of children and young people. However, with regard to Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, there are very clear studies showing that these vaccines cause serious cases of myocarditis or pericarditis in young men under 30 years of age. (The President: "A question! ") Would it not be best to prevent these losses and abandon this mass youth vaccination policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U108	Thank you. Vaccines are in the process of preventing damage, in that sense I agree well with your question. The vaccine may prevent serious harm to your health, which may occur in connection with an infectious disease such as COVID-19. Now, when you compare these vaccine side effects, the potential damage and compare them with the disease, there is nothing to do, no matter what database you look at, no matter what angle you look at it, we can see very clearly that vaccination-related side effects, notifications, possible health damage are a fraction of what has led to COVID-19 disease. This is true in both younger and older age groups. After all, the European Medicines Agency, as well as the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, has analysed all these data, studied them, and therefore they have been granted marketing authorisations and recommendations respectively in relation to the vaccination of young people. Indeed, there is a certain age group that recommends one vaccine, another vaccine, that has been through this crisis. This has been rather because today we have this luxury, in a sense, to choose between different vaccines. But the notion that vaccination helps to prevent serious health damage, reduce mortality, it is still a consensus in the field of health and science, and certainly there is no other way, let us say, there are no arguments here to question this claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U109	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U110	Good manager! Dear Minister, I haven't quite figured it out. The government said he wouldn't raise taxes, but now you're trying to burden people. On the one hand, you're bringing a tremendous burden on the importer. The last discussion was on vaccine medicines, where advice was given on how much they need to buy in the expensive €800 medicines that will be sold to people after two and a half euros at the pharmacy. Now, they're gonna have to set up some kind of fund and start paying for the obrok. In the end, it is paid for by two options: either the sickness fund through taxes or the person who buys it. Who are we kidding now? We try to put all the costs on the importer, the importer finally puts these costs at the end of the day, and the end user pays, whether by compensation through the health insurance fund or by the person who buys the vaccine, for example. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] He'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U111	Yes, thank you! I fully agree with that statement. And so it is for all such public services that nothing comes out of the wall or in itself. In this case, perhaps there were several options in the debate, the option was to really go over, so the state will pay the total amount of them, regardless of who is the importer and who is the user of the vaccine, but as a result of the discussion in the government, we have decided in favour of such a solution, where those vaccines that are bought in by the State, such as the COVID-19 vaccines, rather than the COVID-19, because there is no role for wholesalers, there is a cost for the country and, in the case of other vaccines, it will still depend on the final consumer. For example, if we just paid him over the field, those people who, for example, are not using, I do not know, the vaccine against tick-borne encephalitis or traveling, do not make travel vaccines, indirectly pay the cost. But in this case, if he is "vaccine-based', dose-based, he will either pay for it, either by the Health Insurance Fund, which, for example, compensates for vaccination of the elderly or vaccines under the national immunisation plan, or by a specific consumer who decides to go to one of the most exotic countries and before vaccination. In this sense, it is, like, more related to the direct patient, to the direct consumer, to the current tax system. But the other system has its advantages, it'd be more solidarity, the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U112	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Tanel swing! I remember this moment when you stood here in front of the Riigikogu and announced that Estonia would introduce experimental vaccines. As it turned out later, the side effects that the vaccines could have were not known to the people. In essence, you also carried out illegal human research in parallel with the introduction of vaccines, which is contrary to Articles 5 (2) and 16 4.5 of the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedical. In view of the fact that you have committed such an essentially punishable act, do you agree that the insurance for COVID vaccines will take effect as soon as the use of vaccines was accepted in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U114	Thank you. Just in the interests of the record, I must mention that I do not agree with the beginning of your report for a gram. But in answer to the question, in the case of COVID-19 vaccines, the compensation for adverse reactions is indeed applicable from the time of their introduction, perhaps retroactively, so the explanatory memorandum to the draft in question also states that the EUR 1 million that we foresee to compensate for them on the basis of an initial assessment will concern both 2021 and 2022. Hypothetically, it really started December 27, 2020, but no side effects reported from that period. If there is, they'd go down there too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U115	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U116	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask. There's a specific story I'm working on right now. At the end of the year, a person suffered a stroke, but recovered, went to the south in the meantime, and then he was completely human, already made plans. And then he went to the family doctor, and the question was whether the dose was effective. And the family doctor said, yes, go bravely, but after that, your legs stopped wearing and you don't know where she is anymore. Right now, the entrepreneur is fighting for his life. And my question is, well, obviously, or is this kind of person going to get damages from this fund, and whether the family doctor who said yes, go on, put it down, he's going to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U117	Thank you. First of all, I would certainly like a strong health and strength for both the person you described and his family. Without knowing the circumstances of this case, you will also understand that it is impossible for me to comment from this Chamber whether this advice was justified or not, whether a person is entitled to compensation or not. As I have pointed out, if there is any health damage that lasts at least four months or more, then the right to compensation is. Surely, on the basis of the criteria you described, it would be reasonable for people to seek compensation. I believe and hope that, in this case, he has already reported these side effects both at the Agency and at his own health care facility where he was vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U118	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U119	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Why is § 11 different, numerically, the amounts of insurance provided by the creditor and the insured event in paragraph 1? Normally, insurances have actually dealt with this per person rather than on a case-by-case basis. I don't know if 100 people, 1,000 people at once or how it's been taken. And the second is actually why there's so little money. When we say that very serious damage to health, compensation, compensation for non-material damage, § 19, is provided for up to EUR 15000. Even if we look at Estonian case law, the person will remain crippled and the insurance logic will be up to EUR 15000 at the same time. And thirdly, my question is whether, in the contracts with which the vaccine has been purchased, the European Union's procurement, whether the vaccine manufacturers have anything, compared to the usual pharmaceutical contracts, there is a more limited responsibility in relation to the fact that the vaccines were developed well faster and were placed on the market well according to the needs of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U120	Thank you. Now there were quite a few questions together, so I'm gonna keep trying to answer. The insurance has really been done so that the patient, when we are talking about health care providers' insurance, 100000 cases, 300000, well because in the same case, for example, potentially more than one patient at a time may actually be injured. [[A voice from the hall.]] I very much hope and believe that such a case cannot, in essence, be treated as a single case because we are talking about a medical error, we are not talking about a disaster or such, we are talking about a medical error in a hospital or health institution. A thousand patients will not fit in the operating room in parallel. Okay. Therefore, it is really different that 100000 patients per, 300000 cases... [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U121	Mr. Reinsalu! You still have a second chance. Push in there!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U122	... 300,000 cases. And for the insurance period, he's really $3 million. Now the other side. You may not actually have noticed that there was a question here about what is non-material damage, Mr Reinsalu. Perhaps in the case of non-material damage, this amount is up to EUR 30000. And this, in the case of very serious damage to health, bodily injury, as described by you, is up to EUR 15000, is the compensation for non-material damage, so here, in fact, in parallel, there are different grounds for compensation, in this case it was compensation for non-material damage. And the third question you also had was, what was it that was different... I'm sorry, how was question three? You put three questions into one question. [[A voice from the hall.]] Are the contracts different? Yeah, yeah, it was about the contracts. There is a difference, of course, that these vaccines against COVID-19 have been introduced into countries under an agreement signed by the European Union, the European Commission on behalf of the countries, where all countries have assumed somewhat more responsibility. For example, if, for example, a situation occurs where a patient suffers some serious health damage, the producer turns against the producer, which has also occurred in Estonia, for example, this producer will contact the country and the country will compensate the producer if necessary; the producer will have to pay the damage. Of course, this assumes that the manufacturer himself has not made any scrap lots or any other errors, i.e. it will be assessed on this basis. And the logic has been that, since it was in the interests of the countries and of Europe, it was in the interest of the Union to bring these vaccines to the market as soon as possible in order to contain this pandemic and thereby protect human life and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U123	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U124	Good minister! You argued that the risk of vaccination is in any case lower than the risk of coronal failure. But it's factually wrong. A specific study by the University of California, which has also been extensively reported in the UK newspaper The Guardian, conducted last year, based on data from the first six months, a study of the side effects of the COVID vaccine on U.S. children aged 12 to 17, showing that healthy 12 to 15-year-old boys experienced myocardial infarction after two injections of Pfizer at 166.2 times a million times a million and healthy 16 to 17-year-old boys at 94 times a million. At the same time, 44 out of a million children of the same age were in hospital due to healthy teenage COVID. Why are you making false statements to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U125	Thank you. As I said before in my reply, vaccines are designed to prevent and reduce serious harm to health. That, of course, is what I'm gonna stick to. These studies have been conducted in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry, have been carried out by the European Medicines Agency, have been evaluated by the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and have indeed been found to be indicated and justified in all age groups. I'm sure you can find a study that, I don't know, from the sample, says the other way around. But in this case, you're comparing one to one here, I understand, one particular case of health damage, or myocardial disease, to the general hospitalization of patients. They are not one-to-one comparable. Perhaps a person can suffer a great deal of health damage, which requires hospitalisation as a result of a serious illness: long - term health problems, inflammatory syndromes, such as this. Perhaps you should actually compare what the health damage of these millions of potentially infected young men as a whole, not just a specific example of hospitalization in a particular state of the United States or a smaller unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U126	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U127	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. When I come to the previous question, I say that the fact that the importers are now starting to pay some obrok is something you could think about in the government a little more once. In the end, it is still a large part of the health fund's money. These small medicines or medicines bought at a pharmacy, not at a discount, are still relatively few. But you mentioned, you said that insurance would be paid if four months had to be sick first. Then they pay some money, these numbers are relatively small. If such a well-paid person has been on a blue page for four months, sick leave and still is unable to work, then he will receive some sort of small compensation and the subject will end. Isn't that compensation just too low? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U128	Thank you. In fact, as has been pointed out, these compensations are up to EUR 100000 per individual, i.e. definitely EUR 100000 in Estonian terms is not small money, but, of course, if we value life and health from a human point of view, life is invaluable. That makes perfect sense. And health, too. This four months has come from the concept of serious damage to health that exists today in legislation. Indeed, the long - term health problem is more serious. This is a period in which a person is able to receive a sickness benefit relatively easily, not simply, but in any case. From there, there will be a moment where, for example, the employer will be able to terminate the contract because it is a long-term sick leave. Logic was not to create a situation where, for example, a person is deprived of sick leave and has no other means of compensation. At this point in time, the national vaccine insurance should be introduced. But surely all of these points will be a forum for discussion, a debate place. This was before and in the future in Parliament. These are both new things, both patient insurance and vaccine insurance. And in real life, we appreciate today, projecting on the basis of models from other countries, how many of these compensation cases can come about, how much these sums can come from. In fact, we only see all of this when both systems are activated. And certainly, as they say, the best thing can be made even better, so these systems can also be improved. Now, this damages party or once, you asked again. The current agreement really is that it is a 'dose-based' price. Here is a little bit of the logic, indeed, that since some consumers consume more vaccines, for example, travel more often, this cost is higher for them. On the other hand, there was also an argument in the government that a wholesaler, an importer, would be interested in bringing vaccines or medicines that could cause less side effects to the country. I think they're gonna do it anyway, it's clear. But those were the arguments that sounded back then. However, I agree that there are also very many arguments for the reverse solution. A solidarity solution would be easier, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U129	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Peter Volkonski once said: "We eat ourselves, we drink ourselves, we bring our own dishes. " The situation is exactly the same: we inject, we get, we damage, we die and we pay ourselves. It is incomprehensible to me that these funds must come out of the taxpayer's pocket because of the apology for expression! The drug companies have been allowed to inject us with this filth. However, it is known that Pfizer, for example, has been released from any liability for adverse reactions to vaccine damage. Although this is a common European contract, the question is: are you also going to turn on Pfizer to collect these funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U131	Thank you. However, since there are such misleading statements in Parliament, I must correct them. Vaccination has saved lives and health; unfortunately, this cannot be said the other way around. Over 2,000 patients have died in Estonia due to COVID-19, over 2000. Hospital treatment has required more than 14,000. These are real-life numbers. The fact that vaccination has side effects is that to date, some 300 more serious side effects have been reported per 1.9 million doses of vaccine, this is the other side of the coin. But these two also need to be weighed against each other. On one side there are 2,000 lives lost, mostly unvaccinated, and on the other side there are 300 more serious side effects per 1.9 million doses. And, among other things, right, some potential deaths, for which today the Agency also says that a connection cannot be ruled out, which must be assessed, and these must naturally be resolved. But vaccines have brought great benefits and good health to the people of Estonia, it cannot be called into question, because there are no real-life arguments for this. Now this other side, Pfizer/BioNTech as manufacturer. As I have pointed out, on the basis of these agreements, these vaccines have indeed been placed on the market more quickly than usual, because it was in the interests of European countries and peoples to exit the pandemic as soon as possible. We see very clearly what has happened to those countries and nations whose vaccination coverage is lower, to whom these vaccines have not reached, either there are still very strict and extensive restrictions or very high mortality rates, hospitalization in hospitals. The question is which side of the not real equator, but which side of the line we want to take in this sense. Would we rather be like a Nordic society that gradually opens up and the vaccination rate is so high that the COVID-19 damage is already very low, or are we on that side of the line where the situation is the opposite? So the Government of the Republic doesn't have any status in the filing plan, because there are no grounds for this at the moment. Should this base arise at some point, for example, the manufacturer makes some poor quality supplies, etc., there is another situation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U132	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U133	Thank you. The Prime Minister in the fall said that whoever has the right to claim these vaccines, go to court, there are courts. My question, Mr. Minister, is what seat should a person address to the court? Is Estonia, as a court of damage? Brussels, as the award court? In the New York State court, where, for example, Pfizer's headquarters is located? Or, in fact, the court of the state of vaccine manufacture? The second question is that, if I understand correctly, the mechanism of limiting liability for damage is currently such that, in the case of manufacturers, in the case of vaccines, it is placed on the hands of countries to bear the damage, will people retain this right of claim when this law enters into force or, in fact, it is the law of limitation of claims? Because obviously, when we talk about serious damage to health, for example, a couple of ten thousand euros, which is your dome, the sum of this person, EUR 25000, that is obviously when we talk about case law, the relevant numbers are not, or say, 100000 euros in the case of a person's death. Obviously, when we talk about the sum in the case law of other countries, or also in the case law of Estonia, these numbers are considerably higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U134	Thank you. The first suggestion is that people really turn to the future vaccine insurance, i.e. through the Health Insurance Fund. Today, without being a lawyer, I'm not going to specify. It is possible to turn against the manufacturer; it is always possible to resolve this dispute with the manufacturer immediately, so to speak one to one. And then, if no agreement is reached with the producer, the question is, in turn, which court will resolve this issue. Here, without being a lawyer, I'm not going to give you that answer. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Today, if a person has a particular problem with a medicine, whether it is a vaccine or another medicine, they should contact the manufacturer directly. It has also been done, as I indicated. In the case of these vaccines, there are also some specific examples where an Estonian resident has approached the pharmaceutical manufacturer with a request for compensation for an adverse reaction and the manufacturer has informed the Estonian country about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U135	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U136	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The express was just a big story about a young woman who lost her health as a result of the vaccine. And these people are actually very, very many. And so far there was a position based on faith. It's just saying, we don't think it's caused by the vaccine. And it was particularly good then for the Health Board's representative to comment on the case that if he still has a worsening health after the vaccine, he felt that he could be comforted by knowing that he would help to detect the new side effects of vaccines, which is particularly cynical. This position has so far been predicated on the fact that, for the sake of the general good, we are, as if, obliged to sacrifice our personal health. And with regard to this bill, I am now asking what gives us the hope that this initiative will actually protect people who are in trouble, who have suffered health damage after vaccination. You read the numbers here earlier, and you said that very few people have actually turned. But that's why they've turned very little, that they haven't had the faith that anyone believes them that they're just being branded for some sort of...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U137	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U138	...the colonel's widows or the lame countrymen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U139	Thank you. The use of vaccines is certainly not based on faith; the area of medicine is not based on faith at all. Of course, there are also placebo effects and nosebo effects and other effects, but the use of vaccines is based on scientific research, data, and on this basis, our common government has brought and bought these vaccines into the country and I think it did the right thing. As far as the side effects are concerned, the possibility of informing them has been really open to people, is still present, these notifications are being made. Certainly my recommendation to people is, if they have reasonable doubts, to signal it either directly to the Agency or through the health service provider. And all these notifications have been sent here, let's say, 27 December 2020 to 16 January, even 6569 notifications. But any number we take as a basis whether all the notifications or the more serious side effects, or also the so-called informal maybe estimates, we see that the damage and deaths of the disease are more than repeated, in tens of times the potential similar cases of vaccination. We can see this from the statistics of the Estonian state, from the statistics of other countries. Of course, we can say that all countries are lying, all countries are misleading, but I do not agree with this assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U140	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U141	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I listened to the debate here a little while away, and I had a question. This patient insurance, which has been basically ten years. Isn't he too dangerous now to be linked to this vaccine damage insurance? Or we should say that patients can be grateful for having a corona and now it came on the table, otherwise there wouldn't be a fire. Or maybe the fact that there is too much debate is given two days for amendments, for example, because it is very urgent in fact, and we are still losing, and we still have to wait 20 years for this patient insurance? Is it reasonable to tie two bills like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U142	Thank you. Well, that, of course, depends on Parliament's own procedure. Perhaps I hope and believe that Parliament will support the adoption of both drafts. Well, there's a bill now together, but let's say both legislative changes are made, because indeed, they have been long awaited in the field of health, especially patient insurance, but certainly also vaccine insurance. The logic of the combined approach is that both concern patient safety, both concern improving the quality of health, also in some respects the creation of a social or, say, a fairer health system. So in this view, they can be discussed together. We could have discussed it separately, but since we had this debate, whether or not on the end of the patient insurance bill, and we have now formed this debate and also the consensus in the government on dealing with vaccine damage, here we really brought them to Parliament together as one as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U143	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U144	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that this is one such draft, which Parliament has probably been waiting for very long, and it is a very positive development that concerns the whole social sector and patient security. But my question is specifically about § 20, which describes what is not compensated. Point 2 states that the material damage caused by the deterioration of the patient's future economic prospects will not be compensated. And paragraph 10 of the same section states that no compensation shall be made for loss of income, except for loss of income due to death, damage to health or bodily injury, to the extent provided for in this Act. Don't you think maybe there's a little contradiction and some wording that needs to be adjusted a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U145	Thank you. The specific wording has been developed in a very broad working group precisely with the idea that, on the one hand, uncertainty, i.e. figuratively not all people would take on the future life map, but at the same time there are some real cases where a person does not earn any income due to what is going on, an exemplary need for treatment, such as this, in order to compensate for these costs. Certainly, if there is such a precise question, it will still be possible to dimm it during the draft law procedure, perhaps to clarify the explanatory memorandum in order to make it clear which costs and income foregone will be reimbursed and which are not. Understandably, there will certainly be quite a lot of debate here in the future, and this practice is likely to develop and perhaps also needs to be adapted after its real application.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U146	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U147	Thank you. This is, of course, a very big step forward from the situation where we have been so far, and I would just like to know what this process is going to look like. If you say that also retroactively, how can this causal link still be proved ex post for the benefit of the patient? The question is, which way? There's some discretion, there's probably gonna be some committee and all of them. Whose side will this discretion be, is there going to be a tendency towards the patient's side, or is there going to be a tendency towards the vaccine companies and the medical system? Let's be honest, it's still very much so and so, and I'm not really really sure that these troubled people will actually get help in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U148	Thank you. Now the question is whether you meant patient insurance or vaccine insurance. I'll answer for both of them. In the case of patient insurance, it is really the insurance company that will be the subject of the dispute, but the health institution itself will also report the medical errors. The logic is really that since we take away, I don't know, criminal liability in such situations, i.e. when he has specifically recorded this patient's safety case, recorded, reported a problem, it is also possible for the institution and the health system as a whole to learn from it and, on this basis, for the insurance company to make a decision in favour of the patient. Perhaps when it is actually seen that a specific treatment error has occurred and has been reported. In case of vaccine damage, the sickness fund is the one who is going to accept these applications. The evaluation is, of course, the main consideration of the Agency's experts. This principle applies here that, if it is at least probable, in fact, this logic is rounded up in favour of the patient, compared, for example, with the situations referred to by Mr Reinsalu before that, when a person turns directly against the manufacturer, he is actually a weaker shoulder of power, because in that case he should prove that this connection has existed, which maybe quite complicated. However, in the present case, it is enough if it is at least likely: it is not 100 percent certain and the Agency is not certain, but it is considered likely, as this relationship cannot be ruled out in such a situation, in fact, the right to the benefit of the patient arises. So we're still trying to be more patient-like here than we have to choose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U149	Thank you very much. No further questions. Then we can go to the co-rapporteur. That's why we have Siret Eagle. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U150	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic was dealt with on 18 January this year. The bill was introduced by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, who also gave you here today a very comprehensive overview, and I will not repeat. Since a lot of the questions in the Chamber were also asked, which was asked in the Commission, I may only mark some of the questions that were not asked in this Chamber, but in the Commission there was an issue to be dealt with. The Minister has already spoken in many ways about the process of compensating for vaccine damage here, so I am not going to go over it here. But Tiiu Aro asked about the Conciliation Committee, and it was answered that the Conciliation Committee's aim was to settle disputes between the insurer and the patient. And the Conciliation Committee will be composed of five members and will involve legal and medical experts responsible for the re-evaluation of the case. My colleague, Priit Sibul, in the Commission, also referred to the fact that, in certain cases or in the event of death, we have received compensation today, such as the case of a rescue officer, which benefits will then be paid to us. And the minister here also replied in the Commission that health institutions can pay a benefit or a benefit in agreement with the patient, to which the Minister referred today in this Chamber. Although health establishments are not obliged to enter into a contract with an insurer today, some have done so. At the same time, the Minister noted that, in the case of a rescue officer, the Agency, the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board assessed the case as an accident at work, as a specific rescue officer went into vaccination in accordance with the employer's guidelines. Luck then Pillak asked about the funds and IT solutions, which the Minister replied that the Government of the Republic has agreed to provide the necessary funds from the reserve and that these IT solutions would then be expected to be implemented in the patient insurance system from 2024. And then the Commission took the following decisions: to appoint Siret Kotka, the representative of the lead committee, which was a consensus, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 25 January this year, which was also a consensus, to propose that the first reading be closed, which was also a consensus, and by law, the Commission proposed ten working days for the deadline for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U151	Questions too. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! For the sake of the stenogram, I'd like to be more specific. What is the level of compensation? What criteria are used to determine the compensation, and what amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U153	COVID? In the case of vaccine damage insurance, the amount of compensation is EUR 2 000 to EUR 100000, divided into different steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U154	No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations at first reading. The first is Priit onion from the Fatherland. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not just talking about this bill, I'm gonna come back to the last one. When, in the context of the previous draft procedure, Siret Kotka, the chairman of the committee, said that everything took place according to procedures, there were seven weeks, and that is how we dealt with the draft of the Fatherland, this urgent draft, this bill happened so that it was handed over to the Riigikogu on Monday of last week. It was asked to place on the Commission's agenda conditionally on Monday on a Tuesday agenda, if the government should hand it over, we will discuss it on Tuesday, because it is an urgent draft, which was not the same as the draft of the Fatherland. The formality that is taking place in this Parliament and the way in which the various drafts are being discussed, and several members of the European Parliament also asked about the previous item on the agenda. Now, from the contents of this bill. Indeed, as the Minister pointed out, this has probably been discussed for more than 10 years and has changed. Changed compared to me taking part in and discussing our various working groups during the previous government. What's good? The good thing is that if there is any legal basis for resolving different issues, it is reasonable in any case and it is expected. It is, I think, a sensible decision from the point of view of both patients and doctors and the understanding that we will solve it. And when something's done, it can always be repaired. This is what concerns the patient insurance part of the bill. I am absolutely convinced that this bill does not make sense for us to discuss it in this Parliament, as it has been brought before us. One long-term and comprehensive problem and the other short-term and urgent problem that needs to be addressed. The Minister's presentation and introduction today gave me absolute assurance on why it makes sense to set up a fund for vaccine damage in the case of the COVID virus as a separate fund, companies. Firstly, it is a new disease that we do not have real understanding and knowledge of. In a short period of time, he has had several different strains, some of which respond better to vaccines, others worse. The virus spreads despite vaccinations in different societies. All of this requires and shows that a different solution is actually needed. A different solution has been presented here either way or otherwise, as I was still surprised today, when the Minister pointed out that what concerns the insurance that has been written in here is true that, in the case of other vaccines, we are starting to assume that the importers will pay tithes, which is a perfectly reasonable solution, probably nothing better to bring out, but in the case of COVID vaccines, this importer or wholesaler is the Health Board and, in fact, we are raising the money there from the state budget. In this case, I really do not understand why we do not make a separate fund to solve this problem of COVID virus and possible vaccine damage, because this is an absolute distinction in today's context. It is not the medicine importers who buy these medicines, but the state, and not even the state, but, as the Minister has confirmed, it is the European Commission, at the request of the country. The large corporations that produce these vaccines today have essentially delegated this obligation to the State to deal with losses, as the Minister has pointed out. As a person turns to the vaccine manufacturer, the vaccine manufacturer actually turns to the country because the country has committed itself to deal with these vaccine losses. This does not concern this sector. Which, in turn, shows once again that this is an absolute distinction, and that is why it would make sense for us to break up this draft, so that one procedure does not interfere with the other, so that we can discuss and deal with the rights of patients and doctors in the future. And another issue that concerns vaccination and, in turn, vaccines related to the COVID-19 virus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U156	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group Kalle Grünthal, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! Today we are processing the law on mandatory liability insurance for the provision of health care services, but in fact this law should have come out with the moment the vaccines were taken, the COVOD vaccines were introduced in Estonia. After all, there is no dispute that these vaccines were actually at an experimental stage and, in essence, illegal human studies have been carried out on the Estonian people, contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. But I would like to talk to you in parallel about another subject. In my opinion, today's bill and the period before it are replaced is similar to the case of the sinking of the Titanic. I'm sure you know the story that said Titanic was unsinkable and went to sea and collided with the iceberg and most of the people died. You're saying I'm lying, but I'll bring out the reference moments. So, Titanic, ready, unsinkable ship, insane luxury, everyone was invited aboard, let's go to America. The comparison today is exactly the same. WHA Vice President Tanel Kiik, sometimes also a health minister, comes to the hall, says that only these experimental vaccines will save us. Otherwise, we're not gonna get any peace from this pandemic. We go down in history, people drive the Titanic. The weather slowly deteriorates, there will be reports from other ships, ice warnings, bad story, radios ignore them, don't send messages to the captain because they're busy sending congratulations to rich customers who are about to arrive in America. A good source of side service. Let's jump today: just like that. Already from the start of the vaccines, there were signals that not all things were quite correct. Human health damage has occurred until the first death of one rescue worker. But, by analogy with the Titanic, these reports are being muffled, and generally the public will not know in public. Then there's a Titanic collision with an iceberg. The captain forbids any information being shared because such a thing can't happen and the ship is unsinkable at all. The same is true today in a slightly different context. People start reporting their problems through social media to the public. What does the public media do? Says using a fact check that there's misinformation, that's not true. I think it's a completely equal sign to this thing right now. One minute the water's on the ship and you can't hide anymore. But the captain says the ship has watertight bulkheads, we're not sinking anyway. Comparison with today: the public is served that no, the problems are not about vaccines, but about concomitant diseases. So the vaccines are all right. Then on, at one point, I have to say a little bit here, there's a little difference. While the captain of the Titanic ordered the radios to send out distress signals and requests for help and ordered the firing of missiles, in today's context, the Estonian conservative party has been the radioist, who for the first time came up in this hall with the question of how the people will be compensated if they have suffered damage to their health. And what did WHA's vice president say? He said to sue the pharmaceutical company. It shows an attitude toward people. What happened next? Eventually, the ship went down. Titanic, I mean. And the parts that were in the lifeboats survived. Most of them either drowned or froze later in the water to death. And the approaching ships only picked up those who had escaped to the lifeboats. The same is true of this bill. Only those whose potential health damage will occur in the future will be saved. Because this law will only enter into force from 1 July 2024 and the insurance case can only be referred to one year ago. In other words, just as those drowned in the Titanic, just like those who have suffered health damage at this point or who are dead and loved ones in mourning, this law is toothless for them. Moreover, we are also given a very difficult obligation. Those who have suffered damage should contact the insurer with a notification, but at present the Agency is doing everything it can to cover up these events. We know this story where one person in Põltsamaa fell down after the injection within half an hour and died. Do you think the Agency put him on that list? Tutkit! The cause of the immediate death was coronary insufficiency, not to be confused with corona. In the absence of time, I cannot explain what this disease means. In this case, the law must be passed and made retroactively effective from the moment the COVID vaccines arrived in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U158	Thank you. But now, before we go on with the speeches, I say that we have had a proposal from the two groups to extend today's sitting. Both the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group have proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. We need to vote on this, and we need to do a séance before the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group have proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. We have to vote on this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U159	The extension of the sitting was supported by 38 delegates, one against and the decision is positive, we are working until 2:00 today. Now let's continue the negotiations. Please, from the Reform Party Group, Hele Everau!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's still, I don't know what to call it now, star hour or whatever, but I'm really glad that the health care provider's mandatory liability insurance law has reached us here. For almost ten years, nearly ten years we've been waiting for this. I would very much like to congratulate the medical expert, the Attorney-at-Law Ants Nõmper, who has consistently stressed the need to go through such a path, namely, firstly, the creation and realisation of this law. He has repeatedly and repeatedly given the Ministry of Social Affairs tips in this direction. A little talk about some other things alongside viruses and vaccines, which are just as important in fact. We trust doctors and medical personnel at all. And for the most part, we leave it to them to decide for our lives. Yet, doctors and nurses and all those involved in medicine are people and they may be wrong. If doctors, we take it more narrowly here, if doctors are wrong, patients will either pay for their health problems by getting worse, but sometimes with their lives. And the other half, where you have to pay, is about applying for justice and compensation, which is expensive and complicated. A medical error is defined as behaviour significantly different from modern standards leading to damage. Just a few examples for you. Whether it's a false diagnosis or not a diagnosis, such as a non-diagnosis of cancer, although it exists, a failure to investigate a patient, believe me, a patient cannot be investigated or diagnosed by telephone, a lack of informed consent, that means that a person does not know what the risk of surgery is, a contamination, which means that the instruments used are either infected or black, just using or not using medicines, a treatment procedure without consent. This list could also be continued. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this is not a non-existent problem. We feel that, since we have not spoken about this, we have not systematically considered that we do not have this problem. In America, more people died a year because of medical errors than in vehicle accidents. In the European Union, well, it's the tip of the iceberg, actually, we don't know the exact statistics, 8-18% of patients in hospital experience complications due to medical errors. A total of 25% of citizens in the European Union a year have been affected by the circa, either when they are inside the hospital or they have been given the wrong medicines. A year. For every 20 hospital patients, one, every 20, gets an additional infection that's gonna give you a whole life of complications. All of them could have been avoided by 50-70% if patient safety were to be dealt with systematically. In the European Union alone, 750000 medical errors could be prevented per year, which is certainly a smaller number than the reality, which would in turn reduce the number of hospital days by 3.5 million or reduce... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U161	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U162	... 260,000 permanent disability points. The annual deaths associated with medical errors would also be reduced by 95,000. In fact, we do not know Estonia's statistics today. We have an opportunity for people now through criminal or civil law procedures, this medical'responsibility', the responsibility of the service provider is so-called guilty. But this practice is almost nonexistent when you look at these figures. Just this road is very complicated, as a rule, the Estonian person goes to the doctor's court and it is difficult to prove the error. And actually, we can say that this guilty liability model doesn't work. Already in 2002, the World Health Organisation adopted a resolution 2002, according to which improving patient safety must be a fundamental principle for the functioning of the health system. How do we do it? It is clear that, again, I recall what Mr Nõmper has said that the so-called 'culpable responsibility model' does not deliver the desired results, does not help to improve the quality of the health system. Errors can only be learned if the environment is calm, not after the perpetrator. A fundamental change in medical culture is needed. An earlier culture of "professionalism," actually based on a really nice assumption that a good doctor does not make mistakes, however, must be replaced by a safety culture at present. The development of a culture of safety requires, in fact, a change in attitudes and behaviour of health professionals, fear, defensive positions towards openness and learning and readiness to change. And when society decides to contribute to patient safety, laws must be adopted that are consistent with the general objective, taking into account the legislative rights of the parties. And this law, which we currently have in the debate, through no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-to-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no Winning patients, winning the whole healthcare system. I'm glad we're finally discussing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U163	Thank you. Andrei Korobenik from the Centre Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite symbolic that, now, at the end of January, when the Corona sets new records in Estonia, the draft vaccine damage fund has reached us at first reading of the Riigikogu. There are 315 people in the hospital with Corona today, 221 of them in severe condition, and only one fifth of them have been vaccinated. Reality is tough. If all Estonians had been vaccinated, hospitals would now have less than a hundred patients with corona and our medical system would live its normal lives. People would have access to scheduled treatment. A serious diagnosis would have been made if lives could be saved. This will not happen, however, because we are one of the last countries in the European Union in terms of vaccination. It is easy to call unvaccinated people conspiracy theorists, but the reality is much more diverse. There are very different reasons why some compatriots do not want to vaccinate. Politicians and politics certainly have a role to play in this. People do not trust the country's messages, and we must work together to ensure that trust in its institutions is higher. The vaccine damage fund is a small but notable step in this direction. Regrettably, we have missed other positive moves, such as bonuses for vaccination for older people, but in the future we will try to focus on a positive agenda. A vaccine damage fund is required and should be provided. And even though it took several months to draft the bill, today it is more topical than ever. Of course, no compensation will bring back the deceased, but neither will patient insurance, for example, which has long worked in Estonia and is quite successful. Today's initiative increases the sense of justice in society and narrows the gap. We will not be able to solve all the anti-vaccine concerns in this move, nor will we increase the level of vaccination to 100%, but we will certainly indirectly save quite a number of lives with the vaccine damage fund. It is also important that the Vaccine Damage Fund extends to other vaccines, and I hope that we will be able to stop the fall in vaccination in Estonia and prevent the epidemics of diseases that we have long forgotten, but in some other countries it is not uncommon. There are, of course, many who want to go another way and increase the level of vaccination by means of penalties. There are quite a number of such examples in other parts of the world today. In Greece, the elderly unvaccinated people pay a fine of EUR 50 every month, in Austria a fine of up to EUR 4000 has been imposed since March, the same route goes to Canada. I do not rule out that the financial penalty may increase the level of vaccination, but the restoration of a broken society can become much more expensive. We need to focus on positive initiatives, and the vaccine damage fund is one of them. On behalf of the central group, please support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U165	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak, negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 522. There are no other proposals for this. So the first reading is finished. I will set the deadline of 8 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U166	Let's move on to the agenda. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and related laws initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Heiki Kranich, Peeter Ernitsa, Erki Savisaare and Andres Metsoja (483 SE). The rapporteur is Heiki Kranich, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U167	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, there is a bill before you, which in this sense is at least two ways extraordinary. On the one hand, because it is initiated by representatives of very different groups, and this has not been the norm in this Chamber. And, on the other hand, extraordinary in the sense that I do not remember that during the time of its composition another law would have produced such a great amount of aziotage, such a great deal of response and such a great deal of talk about what the real purpose of the law is. If we now do the Nature Conservation Act as a whole, at least I believe that there are at least four mistakes. The first mistake is that just for historical reasons, there are a number of things in the Nature Conservation Act that, as part of the Nature Conservation Act, would have a more powerful effect. That's why there's all kinds of crap in the Estonian language. For example, referring to the rules for setting up farms. My favorite paragraph, of course, is that the theme of nature conservation is the handling of caviar. Well, good morning. Caviar handling and nature conservation. What's the end of it? There are several other points, which are in fact directly ballasted to the Nature Conservation Act, but these points are not dealt with in this draft. The second issue, which is largely unregulated in the Nature Conservation Act, is actually the relationship between the citizen and nature conservation. Today, the state takes something into protection, the owner is subject to restrictions, and the only thing that is compensated for by the owner is that there is less land tax or no land tax at all. These are the caves compared to what comes with the nature reserves of a person. This is an issue that this draft does not address, but it is an issue that we will certainly have to deal with in the future if we want citizens' attitude to nature conservation to be be benevolent, understanding and not create unnecessary conflicts, as is the case today with the creation of many protected areas. It is not practical, it is not sustainable, but, as I said, this draft does not deal with it. What does this draft deal with? First, the Nature Conservation Act contains a large number of terminological contradictions with other laws. For example, a flood area is defined as a flood area in the Nature Conservation Act, but a flood threat area in the Water Act. Which one are we talking about? A flooded area or a threat area? It would be practical to harmonise these terms. Another thing, the Nature Conservation Act repeats a great many things in other laws, above all what is provided for in the Water Act. And one of the aims of this law is to make unnecessary repetitions that are often not comparable to one another, such as levelling and making the law more understandable. And the third thing actually comes from history. The Law on Protected Natural Objects, which was the forerunner of the Nature Conservation Act, was adopted in 1994. It laid down how protection would be granted, protected and so on. But it was also clear that in 1994 it was not possible to define all the areas that deserved to be protected. That is why the Beach and Coast Protection Act was adopted in 1995, where the construction ban zone, which was 200 metres in the islands and Narva-Jõesuu, was even determined elsewhere in mainland Estonia and on the shores of the major lakes 100 metres, was smaller elsewhere. It provided an opportunity to analyse in more detail what protected sites are, what protected sites are, how they are protected, how to establish a protection code and so on. It's been 27 years today. In 27 years, quite a lot of protection has been granted, protected areas have been established, protection rules have been established. There are protected areas where protection rules are still not in place in a considerable way. But this is not now the fault of the law, but rather the administrative inability of those who have been invited and have been put in place to draw up and lay down such protection rules. In addition, the provisions of the same Beach and Coast Protection Act have been introduced in 2004, I dare say that, to a certain extent, there has also been no change in the full text of the new Nature Conservation Act, and basically the principles have not changed. I am saying that time has moved on and, in fact, we should also take a somewhat more flexible approach to the principles of beach and shore protection. The reason is very simple. There are very many different beaches in Estonia. There are such things as sandy beaches or so - called mooring beaches, where building too close would be foolishness of the slave. And it is clear that building there should certainly not be allowed in the future. The length of such beaches is not 100 metres or 200 metres. In some places, it reaches 300 to 400 metres, some of which are 20 to 30 metres enough, especially when it comes to the morene beaches, where the beach itself is relatively resilient to the sea. But what's most problematic about this is who decides who gives the permission. At the beginning of the days, this decision was made by the Minister of the Environment. The Minister of the Environment alone decided who could build a house in a construction ban zone. Doesn't that sound absurd? When the minister was Jaanus Tamkivi, this decision-making point was shifted from the Minister for the Environment, where there was already a lot of trouble and not just this issue, the Environmental Board was moved away. Today, it is the Environmental Board that decides, for all rural municipalities, whether or not a detailed plan is approved in a construction ban zone, whether or not someone is granted a building permit in a distributed area. I'm afraid it's based on the wrong assumption that there's more wisdom in Tallinn than anywhere on the ground. I do not believe that Tallinn is better aware of the impact of floods on the beach when known, for example, in Haapsalu, Kuressaare, Pärnu and many other places. I think that the city of Tallinn also has its own experience with the same Tuukri street, for example, and I think that if it had been intended perhaps in a little more detail, perhaps the plans for this Tuukri street would have been somewhat different. And I don't know what's gonna happen to Porto Franco, who has a lot to talk about, in case we have such a serious Southwest and West Storm. But that's it. That's all we're gonna find out. These are the decisions we've made. If we look back in history, we do not have a situation today that would not be built on beaches. Built. They send permission from the Environmental Board, they build it. If we look at a cadastral map, for example, there are seaside properties across Estonia. Well, a good example is, for example, when someone is bothering to open a map application for the Earth Administration, such as Neeme Peninsula or Kaberneeme, and so on there is no 100 meters. When we look at Narva-Jõesuu, for example, on the riverside, there is no mention of 200 metres. And if we look at how many dubious permits have actually been granted to build in a construction ban zone, it is quite difficult to come to the conclusion why one has been granted permission from the same Tallinn and has not been granted to another. In addition, there are also such inherent contradictions in the construction of scattered settlements and in the construction of densely populated areas. But it's all a technical matter in that sense. The problem exists and the decision-makers are far from the decision-making point. The purpose of this draft is to increase the rights of the local government and also the responsibility for taking decisions on whether and how far from the sea can be built. What's it gonna be? The Water Protection Zone will certainly remain in accordance with today's law. It has been criticised that the 20 metres that are currently laid down in the Water Protection Act as a water protection zone are too few. Maybe. Let's talk. Has this bill been attacked and said that, oh, now the beaches are shut down, they're being rebuilt. Where's that coming from? That the shoreline will be shut down? Where's that coming from? This draft law clearly states that the regulation of the shoreline will not change. Yes, we have repeated and repeated examples of how the same requirement to provide a shoreline has been ignored. But it has not been governed by the law. Also in the case of the existing law, the Environmental Board, which is now attached to the Environmental Inspectorate and the rights of the Inspectorate have gone to the Environmental Board, has the right to eliminate such violations, to fine the infringer, to dismantle illegal buildings. They don't do that for some reason. And it's not in the law. The same way for the parallel path. If we're saying that people have to get to the beach, they have to get away with this bill before it becomes law, and after that. The path around which a great deal of drums are being cast in this public is not the subject of regulation of this law. On the contrary, this law is based on the assumption that all claims on the shoreline are and will persist and that people's access to the beach must be guaranteed. The only thing we can say is that the Environmental Board could actually read the law better and perform the tasks assigned to it better. What else is being blamed for this law? It is said to be contrary to the HELCOM Treaty, to which Estonia has joined in 1992, as I recall. But unfortunately, if you don't say the wrong thing, it's imprecise. The HELCOM agreement concerns the protection of the marine environment. There is a great deal of talk about how to avoid pollution from ships, how to avoid industrial pollution, how to avoid agricultural pollution, how to avoid pollution from settlements. And one of his 37 articles, Article 15, is that the parties, either alone or together, should also ensure the protection of biodiversity. That's it. The HELCOM Agreement has seven annexes. None of them deals with nature conservation or beaches. A number of improvements have been made to the HELCOM Treaty over the years. None of them deals with the natural environment or its protection. Yes, on March 8, 1994, HELCOM discussed and concluded that this could be the case, let's say, next to the agreement, true, the agreement not as part of the agreement, but just for information, one suggestion that there could be a zone of 100-300 metres overall on the beach and on the shore. And actually, there should be a special zone about three kilometres wide, where construction activities are restricted and where the rules are slightly different. What has not been said is that the same recommendations also set out the differences. And these differences indicate that it must be approved by the local community. That it has to be discussed at local level. And it is precisely this idea that is based on this draft, which wishes to give greater decision-making power to the local government and not to stick to the fact that somewhere far away, from a distance, no one knows the local circumstances, will decide whether to go there or to go there. Is that the right place to build a house or a road, whatever. It is likely that people who have been practically involved at local level can tell almost anecdotal stories about how this type of communication has looked in this bureaucratic machine. Let's say this isn't the remote where these anecdotal stories start. If anyone really needs it, they can do it. But I believe you all have this opportunity. And the fact that the competence of a local government may be greater is an idea of this law. Things should be decided by local people, and, by the way, local decision-making is a very important advantage compared to decision-making at the level of this authority. At local level, such matters are decided by the council and the local government and, unlike the state office, there is also an opposition. Perhaps there is a perfectly natural political monitoring mechanism, which, in many respects, we have seen, actually applies. It's going to work in this hall too. Here too, in fact, this monitoring mechanism exists very clearly between the opposition and the coalition. I was deeply impressed by the position that came from the Ministry of Finance, where the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the promotion of administrative reform, declares with the signature of the Minister, and the Minister was Jaak Aab, that local authorities lack competence. Well, what the hell, I'd say. If local governments have no competence, why do we even have them? And why would a local authority develop competence in an area where it has no decision-making power? The power of decision is also exercised by the competent authorities. This is the basis of good local government principles. As I said, this bill is primarily an initiative for the Riigikogu to think about. I'm sorry to say this, but the Ministry of the Environment has been thinking a lot about it for over 25 years. About this whole time, this topic has continued to be airborne. I've got four years since then to take on my conscience. I did not consider this to be a first-class task at the time either, because the development of the Natura network seemed more important, the creation of new protected areas seemed more important, and the construction ban zone was not a problem number one, but today it is so far up to us that we can look at this thing soberly. Yeah, there's a lot of emotion around this thing. Yes, it is very difficult to fight these emotions because it is very easy to get ahold of such an environmental enemy or anyone's temple. But besides everything else, we are also citizens, and the principles of the functioning of the state should be rational and not rely solely on the emotion of the moment. It is also likely to provide an example of how an impact assessment, which has been very much discussed, does not always produce the desired result. Research has been carried out here, which says that the change in the use of beaches is very bad. The main thing that happens to the beaches today is that they're scrubing, which means that they're growing up on the same shoreline that should be open. And the owner, for whom this is simply a restricted zone, doesn't have any special motivation to keep this seashore clean. As I said, this is an initiative that could give the Ministry of the Environment, which has been silent for 25 years, a boost and a reason to come up with its proposals exactly as if all those sitting in this Chamber could come up with proposals. 'Cause the subject that it's just like everything's fine about the beach and the shore hasn't been heard by me. Maybe I've been listening badly, but I don't think so. The subject certainly needs to be dealt with, and in today's day I think it needs to be dealt with without delay, not delayed for another 30 or 25 years. For God's sake, not us! It's a distraction from responsibility. I very much hope that there will be no distractions in this Chamber. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U168	There are questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U169	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Toomas Kiho, one of the most dignified carriers of our national scientific and cultural heritage, writes in Postimees today: "The damage that will be done to Estonia by becoming the law of this draft will never be reversed again. [... ) The law amending the Nature Protection Act would lead to precisely this, just as it has unfortunately happened elsewhere in the world: let us look around the southern shores of Europe on the Mediterranean Sea or on the shores of lakes and rivers throughout the euro continent. [... It would unfamiliarly change our shores, give a fatal blow to the communities of life there, and nota bene, our whole nation's sense of the sea, rivers, and lakes. " What do you say to Thomas Kiho?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U170	I'm going to answer two things to Thomas Kiho. Point one: Good Thomas, please read the law and his explanatory statement and comment then. There is no point in giving comments on pure emotion. And point two: Thomas, be good, trust the municipalities, don't think there's only fools sitting there. This assessment is based precisely on these two regrettable assumptions. I don't think Thomas is smarter than the average beach-side governor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U171	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question, too, maybe a little like the one before. Where could you have made a mistake that the goals you were talking about, which you told us about this morning in the group, which you have also spoken to me in private conversations, are quite different than they seem? It's the title that was quoted that behind this bill, the ears of the big businessmen appear and so on. Where could this mistake have occurred that you do not understand what you are actually pursuing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U173	There's a lot of things here. First of all, of course, it is very humane to judge everything and everyone by the level of their own corruption. What would that or another person who makes such an assessment do instead of the initiators of the draft, or what would be the one that operates it? The second thing is: look at the company of the initiators of this draft, all of them from the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. That's it. To assume that the members of the Committee on the Environment know nothing about the environment would be a bit of a false assumption, very politely said. In addition, these initiators are all from different political parties. And imagine that some huge real estate magnate can organize the representatives of almost all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, I do not know that there are such capable manipulators. I think that the initiators of the draft are primarily concerned because the current regulation is impractical, excessively bureaucratic and unaccountable to local authorities. Why are there literally inaccurate and even wrong claims to create a social background in all of this, as regards the clearing of the protected area, which concerns felling of forests in protected areas? I can't count those false claims that have been released in connection with this bill. Regrettably, the headlines count. And everyone knows the headlines matter. As I said, the honourable Toomas Kiho is unlikely to have read or at least not understood this draft and his explanatory statement. I think it's the fuel of all the aziotage. Besides, we're all chosen here, and it's a terrible temptation to like. I think that wanting to like is extremely short-sighted as a method of government and disastrous by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U174	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Taimo Aasma, Head of the Department of Nature Protection, said at the meeting of the Commission that the Environment Agency has been asked to make beach and shore data extracts, where, in fact, building or planning can be built on the basis of this legislative amendment. My question comes to you, have you received this answer, where will it be, or how great Estonian territory are we actually dealing with today with this bill? Unfortunately, the public gets the impression that we are talking about all of Estonia's coastal areas, but this is not the case with this bill. Why don't you open it up a little bit more and explain it. And have you received the answer to those areas where there are no restrictions that we are talking about with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U176	Long before this draft was launched, when we had received the first letters of concern from local authorities, I met with the people of the Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of the Environment and described to them, for example, my understanding of how the Nature Conservation Act could be developed, especially as regards the beach and the shore. The answer I got was, yes, it's basically understandable, it's a topic that the Ministry of the Environment has dealt with over time, but they don't think they have enough resources to get it done at the right time. And that they are willing to cooperate if this kind of initiative appears on the side of the members of the Riigikogu. This has come to light today, and I am also counting on cooperation. But that's not the answer I've had. I very much hope that such an answer will come, and the Committee on the Environment will be able to discuss this during the procedure for the draft. And not only that, but perhaps other observations that the Department of Nature Conservation of the Ministry of the Environment has made. Like I said, this bill is an initiative, it's a bill. This is so that we can all think about it and can actually formulate for ourselves that delaying things does not make these things better. The feeling that we're quiet, maybe it'll pass, practically never work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U177	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U178	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Well, with this draft, of course, no one is saying that there is no problem in this area, but what is being proposed as a solution is, of course, immediately flawed in its design, saying that the main aim of the ban on the construction of coastal defence was to protect water and, as a result, this border has been transferred to the Water Protection Act. As we have all read in the letters of specialists and scientists here, and have seen that this is clearly a misguided concept. In fact, the various ecosystems that are on beaches and near beaches and, of course, the right of everyone to move freely in nature, including on shores and beaches, are also protected. So this basic principle, in fact, has been misrepresented here. But you claimed that the law will allow municipalities, local authorities, to increase these no-construction zones by over 20 metres. Could you describe how this process might look, based on what expertise, and how successful local authorities could be on a property restriction that goes beyond the minimum required by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U179	Thank you. I am not talking about extending the effects of the law or extending the meaning of the law by the local government, but about making decisions based on the law. When we talk about effects, it has been criticised that the effects of this law have not been assessed. If this law is passed, there will be no impact whatsoever, apart from the fact that local authorities will be right. Yes, absolutely, at any moment when a local authority exercises that right, the corresponding effects must also be assessed, but they are different each time. It is not possible to make an all-Estonian single-slab rash on the beaches and shores of impact assessments. Here before, I did not answer his question as to how much of Estonia's beaches it affects. I listened to Hannes Tõnisson's presentation at the annual meeting of the Society of Estonian Wildlife Researchers, entitled the beautiful and lyrical "The Magic and Pain of Building the Beach." And there he described different types of beach. It is quite clear what I said before, I think, that there is quite a lot in Estonia, namely that it is not practical to build on the moorings. It is clear that sandy beaches, which are not very much in Estonia, are not practical. Artificial beaches, which primarily concern dense settlement areas and cities in Estonia. A good example is Pirita Road, which is a purely artificial beach. By the way, the artificial beach is also the beach of Haapsalu Africa, but it has to be said here that the repair of the engineers of their own time, for example, did not keep in 1967, and the water came over this artificial beach line, so what happened? When I was a little boy, I looked at it in the window. If we compare the current situation with what already exists. A.Randas already have a large number of buildings, built there, probably not being pushed down by anyone. Old foundations have been found better than any archaeologist, by all the owners of the land by the sea, in order to build on these old foundations plus 30% more. If we are talking today about those beaches where, for example, the Environmental Board has not already granted a special permit, or where there has not already been a historic settlement, I do not believe that this part could be exceeded to a significant extent by 10 to 15%, because there are now no too many of these so-called morenaurs in Estonia. And I would like to repeat, there are beach areas in Estonia where it is very reasonable for the local government to increase the same construction ban area, because it is primarily the responsibility of the local government, which it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U180	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U181	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, So let's talk about content, if you want, without emotions, as much as possible, and with concrete examples. For example, Lake Päidla in the municipality of Otepää, which I know very well, where there are 12 lakes. If you are familiar with environmental issues, you will know that one of our major environmental problems is the growing up of lakes. And now, if it's 20 meters for the slope, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U182	There's four meters, by the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U183	...what are those 20 meters? In a large case, they are either reededed or a landscape in which a house cannot be built and where you can't walk. It's like a wide area that's very good to walk in, but it's not like it's in a lakeside reed or bush. So, actually, this place where the shoreline...... right now goes, is often 30 to 40 meters from the real beach, so... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U184	Time, Reuben!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U185	...how can you say it doesn't close the banks, this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U186	Thank you. As far as I know about reed, the reed doesn't grow on dry land, the reed grows in the water. And where there is water, the shoreline is just beginning to be counted from its boundary. If you want to rustle people, you're a poor landlord, you can't do that. This is not in line with the meaning of the law, neither with the law in force nor with the law in force following the adoption of that law. Don't make people reeds!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U187	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U188	Thank you. Well, you started with the nature conservation restrictions restricting the owner's rights. But in my opinion, these restrictions still protect our common wealth. The shores, all this nature is our common good, our common property, and I think it should still be primary. You rightly said, of course, that these beaches have already been built up a lot, indeed. But why do we want to go on with this, still more locked up and more locked up? And why should we see any buildings or, I don't know, some barbecue or whatever? Well, fantasy can't reach it. It also seems that this bill has somehow moved very secretly, we have such a big debate, if we do not take into account today's newspapers, there has not been one. What's really behind this? Is it right, then, for the press that big real estate sharks are behind this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U189	Thank you. With regard to looking for something to do, I dare say that this bill is an empty breeze. As I said, its initiators, all four of them are all from different political parties, they are all members of the Committee on the Environment, or at least at that point they were, and these people's motive, in my opinion, has been a good will to regulate today in a problem and increasingly problematic area. I come back to the beginning of your question, concerning nature conservation restrictions. You can't deny that if some kind of protection code is established somewhere, it limits the rights of the landowner. Actually, it's fair. And this land tax compensation is a puddle pillow. It doesn't really compensate for anything. It would be fair for this landowner to have a choice. When it comes to a person who is thrilled by this idea, in a word, that his country is protected by a lot of such people in Estonia, he will gladly accept this notice of protection, there is no better compensation for him than he knew that this country was better kept than it was before. However, if we are dealing with an example of a native forest man who lives for it, then the state should have a mechanism to offer this person in a situation where some kind of forest area is protected in the interests of all of us, and I think that this must be done if there is a reason, whether or not the owner opposes it at the moment, then the holder must also be offered an equivalent compensation, whether it is a substitute land or some kind of financial compensation. Of course, with this financial compensation, we also have a law-level adventure today, because if, for example, land is sold under some kind of road or railroad, the land is bought out on one basis, and if this land is taken into nature protection and the option of buying out is offered, then there are quite other bases. Here too, the state would have reason to base itself on uniform principles and not to distinguish between the interests of the state, which are related to the development of infrastructure, for example, and those relating to nature conservation. Here, I think, it is possible to ensure that such legislation is clearly understood and better understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U190	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U191	Good manager! Good waitress! I think I've probably moved the most from this company along the shores of the watercourses, whether it's the sea or the stream. Unfortunately, I have to admit that the existence of a shoreline is sometimes fiction. And my question is why, in all these decades, the executive power, the environmental inspectorate or agency has not wanted to eliminate this illegal situation, so-called bulldozer or men. Why is that? That's the background we've come to right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U192	Thank you. It's a million-dollar question, why? I don't know either. But I remember... Now, the years are ticking, and you start making memories. But I remember, I thought it was 2002. Yes, it was about 2002 when the Environmental Inspectorate of that time organized a raid along the coast of mainland Estonia. All the illegal facilities that were there were recorded, including wheels wagons and such humor. I hear the newer-day Culibins have also invented beach houses on skis. Let's say human fantasy is infinite. And then, as I recall, several of them were also eliminated. Why doesn't the Environmental Board do this now, I don't know. I remember when we were discussing the merger between the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. And one very big objection to the merger that has been made today was that in this case, the Environmental Board will be able to authorise the construction of a construction ban zone and the same Environmental Board, or its inspection side, which will be connected to it, will be able to control it. I don't know, maybe it's because they're the two offices of a house that are up against each other and don't want to get into a fight. In my opinion, the already existing law, in which the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board today have been given all the powers to keep the shoreline clean and to dispose of illegal buildings, even if it is necessary to issue an invoice in this regard to the infringing owner of the law... There are all the prerequisites for compliance with this law. Why they don't do it, I don't know. And here I take this opportunity to send my regards to the sitting Minister for the Environment and wish him the strength to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U193	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to say that four sympathetic men have initiated this draft: one former Minister for the Environment, one current Minister for the Environment and why not one future Minister for the Environment. In fact, I think, in many ways, I agree with those spokespersons that there is a problem in itself in this topic. Having also been in this position for a short time, I know that indeed in Läänemaa, Pärnumaa, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa many landowners, many municipalities have turned with this particular concern and wanted a solution. However, for some reason, I see a situation where all environmental organisations, including environmental tourism organisations, but also the same municipalities that you have gone to help, do not approve of this draft of yours. Why has it happened that you went to help those in need, but quite the contrary, this aid does not come from this bill, and rather this bill receives criticism? Why did this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U195	Well, here's a quote from the Scriptures: "And he came among his brothers, but they didn't recognize him. " I have no other explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U196	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U197	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm sure your faith will honor you. But unfortunately, a large part of society believes something other than this bill, this bill, this bill, or some of it counts. And even if you described very correctly that we actually have such problematic buildings all over Estonia, it seems to me that you are opening up the possibilities by this law to create more of these problematic places. Inevitably, people fear that this ramp, which they are accustomed to using, or which they would be willing to use, would become even more limited. And unfortunately, your introduction to the draft law, which in two places emphasizes immediately in its shortness, but in two places it can be emphasised that the aim of the bill is to mitigate the existing ownership restrictions under the Nature Conservation Act by reducing the amount and scope of restrictions, and for the second time that the reduction of ownership restrictions will ensure more ownership of persons, increase the attractiveness and usability of water-side properties, and create prerequisites for the development of the economy and rural areas. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U198	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U199	Doesn't it sound like everyone's right to property is being restricted?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U200	No. It doesn't sound like that. But I very much hope that the people who read this bill and, above all, his explanatory statement will be more and more, because I have the clear impression that very many of those who have spoken on the subject have not done so. As regards the relaxation of ownership restrictions, yes, this is a relaxation of ownership restrictions in a situation where there are no compelling reasons for restricting ownership. As already mentioned above, there is no substantive justification for restricting ownership. And this right of ownership is limited simply in such a way that the person who wants maybe... A concrete example from Saaremaa. A man wants to build 150 meters from the sea, a construction ban zone is 200 meters, he has applied for it, he says he does not want to build a forest that's just next to it, it's a pine that he thinks is beautiful and he doesn't want to take it down. And they say unto him plainly, Take down the tree, build the house 200 metres away. There's no problem with taking down trees, but building 150 meters is a problem. In this case, this is a completely disproportionate restriction, even from a nature conservation point of view. But as I said before, the part of the beaches that such relief can bring with it is relatively modest, because in most places we already have quite a lot of beaches built. As far as religion is concerned, I cannot call myself a religious person, and when I know the scripture, I hope nothing but reading. But when it comes to faith, it is very risky when people instead of knowledge come from pure faith. I'm an engineer from education, and I believe in rational knowledge, and once again, as you hear, I believe in knowledge, not faith. And I hope that everyone who thinks anything about this bill will also be guided by rational knowledge and not by blind faith, which, unquoted, according to the classic, is one, one bad thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U201	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm not even gonna deny that I don't know the subtleties or the nuances. Why don't you explain to me what the situation is now and what it would become after the adoption of this law, which specifically concerns the construction of beaches or building protection zones?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U203	Today, the same example of Saaremaa is relatively common. If a person wants to build 150 meters, he or she turns to the municipality, it is said that the Environmental Board can grant permission. The Environmental Board says that a study must be carried out, a plan must be drawn up. A person does it, one costs 3000 euros, the other costs 5000 euros. Then these papers go to the Environmental Board, the answer is no. A person has put a piece of money to sleep, and no one takes responsibility for this "no" even after this money is spent. I hope that if the decision-making power falls back on the level of the local government, this will become more understandable, more transparent and this possibility of obtaining no later. But I hope that the Commission's co-rapporteur will perhaps be able to open this issue further, as he has more extensive experience than everyday life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U204	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! At the beginning, it was said that either Toomas Kihol or the drafters were right. One thing that doesn't make much sense to argue with is the wisdom of our ancestors. Estonians have historically built not large dwellings on the shores of the sea, but such light wooden boathouses. Once again, large capital buildings have never been built by Estonians directly on the shores of the sea. Whose wisdom to believe is it that of all the ancestors, or indeed of this small group, or of the initiators of the bill? Which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U206	Of course, one must first believe what is longer in time. The peoples of Central Asia believe only those men who have grown their beard to their knees. I think that, although we do not have such a cult of accessories, we have a history-learning experience, not only in construction, but also in other areas, in exceptional practicality. The fact that it is not worth building a home by the sea holds true on many points. As I've said, I'm Haapsalu's boyfriend, and I remember from school my house was like in the first row, but it was about 300 meters from the sea. Four apartments were rented. I remember in the winter, when the damp wind blew off the sea, the ice was frozen, even though the door wasn't so closed to the sea that the poor dressed schoolboy had to mumble this snapper lock for a long time before the key finally went in, because the lock was frozen. I think that the person who is building the wrong place in the wrong time in the wrong house would, of course, be building somewhere on sand dunes, in short, then the person would get a lot of interesting jokes, this person will soon realize that he has made the wrong decision. So, in any case, the wisdom of earlier generations must be taken into account. For example, a good colleague, Aivar, has told me that there are no problems with this 200-metre construction ban zone in Hiiumaa, because the geographical or, let's say, geological structure of Hiiumaa is that there are no basically coastal villages there. And it's not like it's a problem there today. It is very practical to have a local authority based on the knowledge that exists there. However, we do have places by the sea where, in addition to boat and network sheds, a dwelling has been built. There aren't many places, but these are beaches that the sea doesn't take and the ice doesn't take. There are places like this. The sentenceful prohibition of such places and the restriction of property rights there without justification, if there are no conservation values, are not justified in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U207	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U208	Thank you. Good waitress! I would certainly like you to repeat that the drafters certainly do not put the wisdom of our forefathers in the air with such a question mark. That is precisely what we want to emphasise with this draft that wisdom cannot be a total ban, but wisdom can be the whole planning of certain areas where it is possible to build. Maybe you can explain it one more time. In today's case, it actually works on a case-by-case basis, it is actually viewed as a single object, not as a whole, and the basis for planning is seeing the whole. And our wish with this bill is precisely to enforce the legal space so that the same road user in nature, the visitor of the beach area can be predicted in the community that awaits him in the future and in the same way the owner of this landowner. Why don't you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U209	If I were to try to explain it again now, I would simply repeat the question. And I can assure you that what good colleague Andres said is the original idea of the initiators of this draft. And what I would like to say again is that it is not possible to do this from far away, from Tallinn, from the office, but it must be done by every municipality itself, when assessing the future in a community. And he must first and foremost have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U210	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U211	Thank you. Well, the discretion mentioned by the previous speaker actually exists in today's law. Change is very simple. Today, in order to be able to build on the water border, this is an exception to the general norm, which means that it must be very well justified. As a rule, no answer will be given, I agree. Sometimes you get an unfair no answer, I agree. But the proposal for this bill is to turn it right over. As a general rule, water can be built on the border and, if it is to be prohibited, it must be justified. Since this is a restriction on ownership, this justification must be very thorough, calculated and, of course, will continue to be challenged in court. Consequently, the fact that local authorities fear both this obligation and the fact that they are not actually able to protect nature and the general interest of people in the regulation you are proposing is perfectly understandable. The question is simple: if this change were to reverse the general rule, do you think in ten years' time we will have more houses on the waterline or fewer houses than today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U212	Whatever happens with this law, whether it is adopted or not, in ten years' time we will have more influence on the waterline. Because the current law is also likely to grant permits. And how much, only God and Juula know. I don't know either very well. So I don't know how to make a prediction about it. But as for the siege of the norm you've described, I'm afraid we're in a completely contradictory position here. Your angle is this: the state imposes some kind of restriction, which is quite straightforward, and when a person says that this restriction does not apply to him, then the person must prove that he has the right to freedom. I say that the relationship is quite the opposite: a person's personal freedom and his economic freedoms are primary, and if the state decides to restrict them, the state must have a very good reason. Here is our principled ideological confrontation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U213	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very I acknowledge your courage to go against the entire nation, but I also have a concern and perhaps from this very question of values. You said that it should be based not on faith, but on knowledge. My question is whether we should not debate such a subject on the basis of values. There is one very important principle of conservation, called the precautionary principle, the "precautorial principle." In my opinion, the explanatory memorandum to this bill and nowhere has it been discussed what is the possibility that things might go wrong. It is precisely in order to be cautious, rather in the way of preserving nature, and in the same way not only to rely on personal freedom and economic growth, but also to build on this important common good, which is nature and the opportunity for us to preserve it. Is the question of values important to you when you make this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U215	Values cannot be carried by law, values are carried by people. And if we cut this precautionary principle just like the letter of the law and literally, we would definitely be wrong. When it comes to screwing up, I'm trying to make fun of myself, but one of the derivatives of Murphy's law is, if something can go wrong, I'm sure he will. But the precautionary principle must actually be in all of us, because... I have to go back to history as an ageing person. Once, when the Estonian Liberal Democratic Party, the predecessor of the Reform Party, was founded, his programme began with the words: a person is free to borders, which are laid down for him by the same rights of other people and the sacred duty of preserving nature. This is a perfectly natural political definition of the precautionary principle, if you wish. And I think that this is what we need to build on here in this Chamber, and it must certainly also be the case for the local authorities. But if we here think that we are better at making individual choices at local level, the safest way is to screw things up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U216	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U217	Thank you. You didn't answer my first question, but I'll ask you again. Why is it that you are going to help the municipalities and, in fact, the municipalities say that they do not want such a bill to be rather afraid of it? And it is precisely those municipalities that fear where I think this problem is the most acute. Well, I think it's actually a bad situation when someone in Nasva village wants to build a tree shed and a tree shed building permit has to be applied for through the Environmental Board. However, I am now asking this question, and I would also like you to confirm in front of this Chamber that it is not the personal interests of the four of you or the personal interests of another company that are behind this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U218	Come on, imagine me and Peter Ernitsa having a common interest! It's pretty much out of the question. So this is a matter of fantasmagory. As far as local authorities are concerned, both the municipality of Saare and the municipality of Muhu have both expressed their views, they consider that the current situation is discriminatory for them. Similarly, the Committee on the Environment in written form has also done so in Jõelähtme Municipality. Several local government figures have been, like, outside of such official correspondence. And let's say we're all human. So, when this huge aziotage is like the air, where it is thrown, I dare to confirm it, the false claims, in order to say this, a paradigm shift, as to put it down, then politicians, also local self-governings, who are also politicians, are also guided by the precautionary principle mentioned above. And I think that, if these rights are granted to them, we will see how this current, let us say, a silent attitude, which can often also sound like a relatively deafening silence, is still replaced by relatively active and constructive work aimed at our community.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U219	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U220	Thank you very much. There have been questions here, and it has been many times since the last questions, that the municipalities are afraid of this new solution. Do the initiators also know those who are afraid? And if you do, please say it out loud. Fear must also be addressed, that is also where objective solutions must be found as to why they are afraid. Then it is also possible to hold this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U221	The express expression of fear to say that this or another municipality is afraid, I cannot give an example here. But there have been examples that I am better silent, which can actually be defined as the same, well, appropriate or not appropriate, caution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U222	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The fact that local governments say that there are actually a lot of problems, now that we are legitimizing what you have proposed to us means that there is, in fact, a substantive impact analysis without going into this draft. I also remember from the Committee on the Environment, which was very interesting, that the position of the Ministry of the Environment had not reached the members at all before the committee meeting, when this draft was discussed. So interesting things happen. Neither does the Ministry of Finance. Can we read out of this the reason why it has been presented by the ambassadors so that it would not actually be possible to submit such a bill through the government? Because if we actually have an impact assessment, if we actually carry out public involvement, which is all that is missing now, and debate, this bill would never receive support from the government. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U224	No. It's not like that. The world is simple. First of all, impact assessments. As I have already said in this remote control, it is relatively hopeless to carry out such a comprehensive impact assessment throughout Estonia. In fact, these impact assessments are rather self-governing, depending on the particular type of beach and so on, and so on, and so on. It is practically impossible to carry out such an impact assessment before we give decision-making powers to these same municipalities. This impact assessment therefore needs to wait somewhat. As far as the government is concerned, once again, from this remote control I have already said today, last summer I had conversations with the people of the Ministry's Nature Conservation Department and they agreed that a number of changes were needed here. But they also admitted that their own resources and their own willingness to do all of this, plus the government itself, let's say, such a procedure for initiating drafts, that the intention must first be to do what it is, and then this intention must also be to let through different ministries and so on, so that it is such a long procedure that it is easier for the ministry to intervene in this process if the draft has been initiated by members of the Riigikogu. I think that, as of today, the Ministry of the Environment will have every opportunity to integrate into this process, and I believe that these problems, which we may eventually formulate as common, probably in the form of some possible compromise, will also be resolved more quickly in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U225	Indrek Saar, please! In a minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U226	Thank you. Good waitress! In particular, however, this passionate response to Evgen last time gives me the feeling that what I quoted here in the introduction to the explanatory memorandum is sacred, even greater emphasis on the sanctity of this property right, also through this legislative amendment, which is very close to your heart in the world, is, unfortunately, deeply written here. When you think back about all the decisions that have been made in this philosophy, you think about these endless litigations and fights and the jocks that go on because we've privatized most of you, people can no longer get to their homes, because the owner at one point thinks that if it's mine, then I can do it all in the same way in a situation where the local government may have to prove to people that it has the right to impose restrictions? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And in the end, it means everything goes its way. And the one with the...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U227	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U228	...a bigger fist and wallet, that's up to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U229	Again, I have to disagree with the left side of the hall. I do not see any possibility that granting the municipality such a right could lead to any legitimate expectation of anyone. This gives the right to a local government and the local government does not have a very clear answer to the owner either. As far as court proceedings are concerned, the traditions of court proceedings have already been described in detail by Tammsaare. They are essentially based on two things: property disputes or just personal jealousy and spite. I hope that this draft will not encourage either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U230	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! The question that prompted me to ask was whether or not your personal interests were at stake there. I know that Peter even withdrew his signature because it was precisely the accusation that personal interests were involved in the game, and I know that he also called upon the Postman to find out his personal interests. That means they'll figure it out, and I'll say it's not like it's a problem here. I would ask you that it was only in Ida-Virumaa that these border areas were dealt with very closely, that the edge of the Narva River is full of such property and houses and boathouses, which are directly on the water's border, and I remember that you and I have discussed and talked about this also during the border guard. What position do you have in general, how do we have to resolve these issues in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U232	As far as personal interests are concerned, I must make a dramatic statement: I do not have any personal interests. I have ideological, political and interests based on the whole functioning of the Estonian state. That is why I am also among the initiators of this draft. As far as the Narva River shore is concerned, as you are well aware, certain special rules apply to land on the border. And I do not rule out that, for example, when it comes to the Narva River or other properties very close to the border, we may have to look at matters in a different way for defence purposes. I don't rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U233	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U234	Good manager! Good waitress! I will make a small remark: you say that you and I have no common interest. Yes, it is. In terms of sexual orientation, our common interest is women, but not men, children and animals. Two: common sense unites us and that ownership must be compensated. And there are other things, but there are differences. But my question is, is this, given this resentment, could it really be said that the people do not trust the local authorities that we thought, in our own naivety, that we would give them more decision-making power? But at this point, it seems that local authorities, at least today, are an untrustworthy group that can be bribeable and so on. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U235	I think it's the other way around. The fact that such an aziotage has arisen does not show that the people do not trust local authorities, but that they do not trust you and me very clearly. In other words, he does not trust the Riigikogu, asks whether you have any private interests. It is already insulting to ask this question. And this is, in my opinion, a categorically expressed distrust of the Riigikogu. And in case we say yes, we're going to pull the tail between our legs and say yes, of course, which we're going to be here, right? In that case, we will confirm that they were right. I say that those who suspect any private interest in presenting this bill are not right. And there should be so much confidence in the Riigikogu that he would dare to look at the problems that exist, to deal with them and not to draw his tail between his legs. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U236	We can ask the last question, but there is very little time left for an answer. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U237	Well, you see, when we were talking about religion here earlier, we imagine that your bill was written out of good faith. At the same time, it is clear that today the wider public in Estonia does not believe you. And this is still because, under the law already in force, this law has been broken, built, right, closer to the seashore, which worse, is a closed shoreline, placed in it by barbed wire, evil signs, dogs. The fear of the Estonian people, at least the majority of the people, is that if this law is passed, the situation will get worse. And these fears are certainly very well founded. What do you respond to these fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U238	I think it's not that they don't believe, I don't think they understand. And what I'm saying is that you see that the current law doesn't really work. This law is being violated, the law is not being enforced and the situation will improve once this law is passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-25_U239	Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the extension, the time for our sitting has passed. We can continue to process this bill tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
