ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It's like there hasn't been a time since yesterday's trial, but even though the date hasn't changed, the day of the sitting has changed. And then we will begin the session of the VIIth session on Thursday of the 11th working week. And as usual, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits is the first to express her wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Yesterday, we graduated from education, and now today begins with education topics. On behalf of the Fatherland, I will report an inquiry into the activities of the Teachers' Association. The inquiry is addressed to the respected Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna. The task of the Estonian Teachers' Association is to partner the Ministry in increasing the number of teachers applying for an invitation and developing the application system. It provides the organisation with an operating grant from the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U3	I'm sorry for a second. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U4	As a strategic partner, certain higher expectations have been set for the Teachers' Association, which is why I draw attention to the administrative supervision carried out by the Vocational Chamber of the Foundation over the activities of the invitation of the Estonian Teachers' Association. The conclusions of the Chamber of Appeal reveal a number of offences in connection with the award of the invitation. It has been pointed out, among other things, that the decisions of the professional committee are not lawful and there is a suspicion that the professional committee will perform the task assigned to it by law only formally. In addition, the validity of the decisions of the professional committee is called into question. In this regard, we have a number of questions, namely six. Questions include who is then responsible, how much money was directed and how the Ministry has reacted to what has come out of the open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U5	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! When I went to school, my abbot started with a poem called "Everything's New September." We are a country and a nation that values education and knowledge, who, as a Nordic country, attaches importance to a better reconciliation of work and family life. The beginning of the new school year, the day of knowledge, is a very important deadline for Estonian families. Many parents send their children to school that day. Very many families have a tradition of meeting and celebrating the day of knowledge, the beginning of the school year. So today, the Social Democrats are issuing a bill to the Riigikogu, which allows parents whose child is studying in a general education school or vocational training institution to receive a free day paid by the employer on the day of the beginning of the school year. That is, of course, if it is a working day. I hope you will support this. The bill would become a law, and our families could celebrate the beginning of the school year with dignity. The draft has been delivered electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U7	It's a good thing a handshake can't be delivered electronically. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that one bill and one inquiry have been handed over. Their further processing will be decided by the Governing Board in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act as usual. Now we have a chance to conduct a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U8	Currently 64 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, which is the debate on the crucial national issue "From the energy crisis to the electric shock" initiated by the Isamaa Group. Let me remind everyone how we are discussing this today. First, the representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Koka, will give a presentation for up to 15 minutes, then 20 minutes for questions and answers. Then we expect Marko Allikson, member of the board of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ. He has the opportunity to speak for up to 20 minutes and we will see 40 minutes for questions and answers. And thirdly, the speech chair of the Riigikogu is welcome to be the chairman of the board of Alexela Group Marti Võo, whose presentation is up to 20 minutes and questions-answers up to 40 minutes. We have agreed that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask up to two questions to each of the rapporteurs, but of course in the time frames that I have just read. Then we open negotiations. And as you are already aware, during the negotiations, we ask the representatives of the political groups to speak first, and then all members of the Riigikogu will be able to express their opinion. We will not take a decision to close the debate. Now, please, Member of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U10	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! What is our government's plan for green energy independence? What energy insurance guarantee and prices are we going to meet the next winter? These are questions and topics that interest all our people and businesses. This is an issue that we should have discussed last autumn. Over the last few years, we have been talking about environmental issues and the green turn of energy, the last eight months about energy prices that are clearly beyond our people and our businesses, and since 24 February, energy security issues have been added to this. All we've heard from the government is that they're investigating, discussing, talking, meeting, hoping and believing. This was the case in the discussions on energy subsidies when discussions were launched in autumn, which only reached decisions in January this year. Similar scrapping has been taking place for years in the construction of wind farms, not to mention the failure to make a specific decision to abandon Russian gas, so that operators can immediately start preparing the infrastructures necessary for the supply of [revised] gas and the conclusion of supply contracts. Unfortunately, these decisions have not come. Instead, we read press releases every day as if all decisions had been made. Unfortunately, no specific decisions have actually come. Who's gonna pay for this indecisiveness? I guess end-users, our businesses and people. But who's responsible? After all, we have responsible people working in the government and in the ministry. Time and again, the question arises as to why it is not possible to decide. Energy production should be environmentally friendly, affordable and, at the same time, secure energy security must be ensured. Production and interconnections must cover our energy needs. So what is our country's plan for energy security? What is the cost of energy for final consumers? We have oil shale energy, wind and solar parks, cogeneration plants, we are discussing ways of using nuclear and hydrogen energy. But which way are we going? Our long plan should be to reduce the carbon footprint in the energy sector. What will the Estonian carbon footprint be like in the coming years? Our energy sector, or oil shale electricity, is largely responsible for the carbon emissions of Estonia. On the one hand, domestic energy consumption, from heating solutions and the insulation of the house to the choice of lights and domestic appliances, plays a major role in reducing our own footprint, but on the other hand, decisions that we will produce electricity in the coming years and decades. Electricity production must be viewed as a whole. We know...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U11	Mr. Chef, I'm sorry for a moment. Your groupmates, with their baritone vote, are making quite a noise. I think it's hard for our guests on the left side of the corner to hear you. So if I may ask the hall to be quieter, then... Please, Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U12	We know that about 70% of energy is produced in Europe from fossil fuels. It is our desire to decouple ourselves from Russia's energy, from gas, liquid fuel, from electricity, and a definite goal should be the transition to green energy. First there must be a plan, then there should be a political message and decisions, and then investment grants to implement this plan. The price of electricity in the Baltics must be decoupled from the price of gas, and the solution is that at the moment it is only a quick option to put in full gear for the construction of land-based wind farms and to proceed quickly with the preparatory work for the construction of offshore wind farms. We cannot talk about a ten-year perspective here, but we must talk about a two-, three-, four-year perspective. We have to do everything we can to get this full speed pushed in right now. As a result, we could produce enough green energy and reduce dependence on gas, the price of which we do not control. But in the case of wind energy, we can set the price ceiling for electricity because we know what price we have in our hands of this energy is under our control. In this way, we will be able to offer affordable electricity prices to our people and businesses. If we produce enough electricity in Estonia, we will have most of the time the same price as the Nordic countries and we will be able to offer the remaining electricity on the market in the same price area. If we cannot produce enough wind power, we will continue to be dependent on gas prices. In today's situation, the price of gas will also dictate the price of our next winter's electricity. The peak electricity consumption has been 1650 megawatts in recent years, and 2200 megawatts in gas. To say today that we are pushing the larger world into a smaller one, no one would believe it, but many in the energy market are trying to say it. To cover the peak load, gas is needed where the alternative cannot be implemented. Normally, during peak load, it is necessary to cover [need] when the wind does not blow and the sun does not shine. It is clear that the gas will never compete with wind and solar energy, but the vertices must be covered with something. The government and Elering should fight for security of supply in Estonia. But for some reason they do not do this, it is done by private entrepreneurs and Eesti Energia. But they're always trying to create obstacles. The question arises as to whether someone works for Gazprom or why. Can anyone answer that question? The cheapest electricity comes from the land wind farm. For the last ten years, no new wind farms have been built in Estonia. We do have investors willing to build them, but there are more obstacles and obstacles and decision-making delayers. Let me remind you of Aidu and Toots' wind farm. For years the founders of Aidu wind farm went to court with ministries and two state companies argued with each other in the case of Tootsi wind farm. The result? The years have gone by, these two wind farms would have been producing 340 megawatts of electricity for years, and this would have made our electricity much cheaper. Are these officials responsible for their stubbornness? No, on the contrary, we end-users are paying for this fight from our own pockets. Eesti Energia has four wind farms in operation. At the same time, the Tootsi Suursoo wind farm is expecting less wind energy, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs is unable to announce in any way. This competition has been expected as a blessing for the last two years. Society screams under electricity bills: government, turn it up! What are you waiting for? Besides Eesti Energia, there are similar projects in Estonia. Give a clear political message that more wind energy is needed for Estonia. The availability of the companies is high, but it must be borne in mind that an investor plans a 30-year return on such a project. But there is no certainty in today's world. The government should provide some investment certainty. All our neighbours do this: Finland, Lithuania, Poland. We just watch and think. We could start building wind farms tomorrow, we have connections, we have projects, we have permits, we have no altitude limits. The more we produce green energy, the better we can offer Estonian consumers. That's the plan of the Fatherland. If all parties were to behave and act rationally, we would not have a shortage of green energy in a few years' time. Everything should be done today to make Toots' wind farm ready in 2024. Connections have been built, plans are in place, procurement is under way, the procurement results are announced in May, all major manufacturers want to build this 240 megawatt wind farm, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs thinks, discusses and ultimately prevents it. With today's knowledge, Aidu wind farm could start producing electricity by 2025 at the latest. Sea wind parks can become competitive from 2027. For security of supply, sea wind parks are very important because there is more wind at sea and research has shown that at least 270 metres of altitude there is enough wind to produce electricity at 98% of the time. Instead of bagging wind farms, we should create a good investment environment in Estonia where investors would like to build wind farms. The last few years have been active in the development of the Gulf of Riga wind farm. When throwing sticks to developers is stopped, investment decisions can be made by the end of 2024, and at the latest in 2028 there would be 1000 megawatts of Livonian wind farm in operation. Before that, we could build several wind farms on land. The Livonian wind farm alone would satisfy 50% of Estonia's energy needs. We've had five storms and a lot of blackouts this year. One option is to invest in better wind resistance in networks, but perhaps it would be more sensible and also cheaper to invest in storage and solar energy. The wind and sun are usually in different cycles. Usually, if there's a high pressure, the sun's gonna shine, but there's no wind, and vice versa. In order not to waste land, it makes sense to cover the ground under wind farms with solar panels. It means: we build hybrid parks, we can use the same connection and network. At the same time, we could leave farmland uncovered by solar panels. Instead, we would build solar parks on the roof of production buildings, apartment buildings and private buildings with electrical energy storage tanks. I have a proposal for the government: we support homeowners and exempt them from VAT for a few or three years in our homes for the construction of up to 15 kilovolts of solar parks and for the installation of storage tanks. This is very important in terms of security and energy security. Recorders also ensure that we load less of the grids and, at the same time, at night's electricity consumption, the owner of the house can use already stored energy or save cheap electricity that can be consumed by the day. Society also wins by not having to invest so much in networks. Today's security situation and the price of Russian gas have created a situation in which the government should clearly state that Estonia will not consume the gas produced in Russia next year. As a solution, we need to build the LNG reception infrastructure by autumn, the connection to the gas pipeline, rent the LNG vessel and buy enough [exploited] gas. But what decisions have been made today? In fact, a number of press releases have simply been issued which have not been followed by specific decisions and guarantees from the State. We know that prices are rising every day. Alexela had already made pre-bookings weeks ago for the ship, the [exploited] gas, and the metal that was going to build the infrastructure. But before the final decision is made, the state should have a clear plan and the government should have a clear decision. Unfortunately, it still doesn't exist. If we want the infrastructure for the LNG vessel ready in autumn, the government should have taken a decision no later than two weeks ago. But there is still no decision today. Within six months, building all the infrastructure would be a world record anyway. But every day, the delay in the decision will push us into the situation that in the next winter, there may be a shortage of gas in both indoor heating and many gas-using productions. The indecision of the government has given the entrepreneurs a clear message: entrepreneurs, rest on your feet, do not disturb us, then the government can rest peacefully in the summer. Now, if we make new reservations, we know what's happening in the world at the price of metal, gas. LNG ships to rent are practically no longer available on the market, if you find them, at a more expensive price. Who's gonna pay for the price increase that's gonna result from this limp? Rege rake still in the summer. We know that on the world market gas is cheaper in summer than in winter. To have the gas for the winter, we need to stock it up in the summer. This summer [in gas storage] we will not only depend on Russia's decision and its gas. The gas coming from the Klaipeda LNG terminal is 100% booked by Lithuania and Estonia and Latvia will no longer get gas from there. When, in 2014, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas abandoned the construction of the LNG terminal in Estonia and announced that we did not need it because the Klaipeda terminal covered our needs, it was asked how this could be done if the gas needs of Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were 70 sharp hours and the Klaipeda terminal has 30 sharp hours of capacity. Is it possible to cover 70 terawatt-hour needs with 30 terawatt-hours? You can go to the neighbor's well for water, but if it's a dry summer, the neighbor will say: come next spring, this summer I won't have any water for you. As you can see, there are no free lunches. At the moment, it seems that the Reform Party government can chuck the same bucket for the second time. As in 2014, the construction of the LNG terminal was abandoned for the benefit of the Finns, the same is now the case. I would remind you that Finland has not yet established its LNG terminal. One way to secure energy supply maybe nuclear energy. One of the solutions proposed could be a nuclear power plant with small modular reactors. Hence the question: is building a nuclear power plant in Estonia, which is not a nuclear state, the best idea in the world? Perhaps it makes more sense to build Finland with Finns, where would we be a partner equal to 50%? Unfortunately, today we do not have a nuclear energy plan on the table to discuss so that we can consider the pros and cons and make final decisions on them. Hydrogen has been used in the world for a long time. It is mostly used in the chemical industry today. In wind parks, hydrogen could be produced from electricity that does not fit into the market, but then it should be connected to the chemical industry, so the consumer is next to the wind farm. In that case, you have one transformation, but if we want to re-energize this hydrogen, it's a second transformation, and there's only 30% of the energy left, or even less. We do not have large hydrogen consumers; we do not even have energy consumers. The plan is to make a ferry or bus drive hydrogen, but it's not enough consumption. In the Livonian wind farm, about one third of the energy produced could be stored as hydrogen at a time when there is no point in selling electricity to the market. But it's a huge amount. A chemical industry should be attracted to the consumption of one terawatt-hour in order to create value through green hydrogen. But why not clean the gasoline that our oil shale industry produces with this green hydrogen? If you add that 90 days of liquid fuel supply is half of abroad and there is virtually no aviation fuel supply in Estonia, then [the question arises], what does our government do? However, our own entrepreneurs could manage to keep this stock. Is this what this is about to create our security? Why do I get the feeling that there's a total lack of strategy in Elering's activities? First, we build an additional drain pipe into the connected vessels, i.e. an electrical connection to Latvia, and then we start to think about how we fill this vessel. There must still be strategic thinking: on the south side, the consumer of Estonia is totally sucking electricity and paying Elering an overload fee for this! Of course, it is a great business for the state company, but why does the consumer of Estonia have to pay for it? As of today, the Estonian consumer will pay Elering over 100 million euros per year and the same amount will be paid to the Finnish national transmission system operator Fingrid. The only reason we are paying is that the exchange prices in Finland and Estonia are different. And they differ for one reason only: Elering decided to open a third power line in Latvian direction, in other words, to a caged container with one hole. How do people come up with these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U13	Mr. Chef, how much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U14	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U15	Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U16	The profit from the high electricity price in Estonia, which is different from the favourable price in Finland, goes not to the producer but to Elering. The Finnish electricity producer receives the Finnish stock exchange price, which was 86.5 euros per kilowatt on average in March. At the same time, the Estonian consumer paid EUR 151 per kilowatt. The price difference of EUR 64,[5] simply went between Elering and the Finnish national core network company Fingrid to split 50:50. Should we now build Estlink 3, whose construction price is estimated at EUR 75 million, or could we instead give half of this money to local renewable energy investors, such as the market insurance measure? Then Estlink 3 wouldn't be necessary. After all, we know that the Estlink 3 investment would automatically go into Elering's core network tariff and should be paid back to Estonian electricity consumers. Finally, the question: what has been Elering's action to ensure security of gas supply, especially after it has in principle been decided to abandon Russian gas? Let's be honest, practically nonexistent! It hasn't started to move since the last few weeks, but it should have been dealt with for years. Fortunately, we have private companies like Alexela and Infortar who are finally trying to solve this problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U17	Good waitress! At least one question from Tarmo Kruus Hill is waiting for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U18	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The subject, of course, is very large and wide. I'm starting out like this. For some reason, it is not recommended to build solar panels near national defence objects. We can still understand the windmills, but the solar panels, too. For some reason, however, it was noted that in Ida-Virumaa, the state itself sells some defence object in the Narva-Jõesuu area. Does that mean you can start building there now? I don't understand why this object is being sold, but does that mean that it can be built there, or is there still some years [needing to wait] that maybe the state will have a point or an object? How long does the prohibition on building there apply after it has been sold?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U19	Thank you. I really don't know how long there's a construction ban or if there's a construction ban. But we know that the last ten years have been debating whether or not there are radars, whether or not radars are needed to build wind farms. During the first decade of this century, it was agreed to connect the surveillance and defence radars. Border surveillance radars indicate up to 300 metres above and beyond Defence Forces radars. This connection has not been made. If radars had been purchased as originally agreed in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the price of radars was forecast at this point at 6 to 8 million. It's been agreed today that radars will come, but the price of these radars is 70 to 80 million. And I understand that 2024/2025 is the time when these radars should be in place, and then wind energy in the area should have no obstacles, and there would be an opportunity to build a wind farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U20	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In your speech, you also touched on the possibility of domestic customers installing 15 kilowatts of solar panels. After all, the main problem today is the possibility of joining. One thing is that support measures could indeed be found for the installation of these panels, to motivate people. But it doesn't help much if our power grid doesn't allow us to join. It's a very big bottleneck. There's a finger on the instruments. Do you have an overview of how much additional money should actually be directed so that our Electricity can connect solar panels at normal times?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U22	Thank you. Actually, I think we should start the other way around. When we talk about 15 kilovolts of solar parks and storage tanks, there is no real need to build any more networks for this, because we are definitely consuming the same amount of power as a household consumer and these networks have been developed. If we put the storage tanks that store solar energy during the day and the remaining electricity could be used at night, or if we have used up all the energy during the day, we could save the cheap electricity at night when there is less consumers and use it during the day. In this case, there should be no additional cents in the development of the network, as these networks have been developed. The other side is that when 2017 we passed the law that up to 50 kilos of solar parks could be put on apartment buildings, homes, we are honest, at one point, a sentence was written somewhere that the members of the Riigikogu did not notice between second and third reading, and the fields came three hundred instead of 50 kilos of parks, five hundred. Five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten of the 50-[kilovat] solar parks were made, but there are no consumers. In my opinion, it has been quite foolish to create solar panel parks on a field without production or inhabitants. If they had been placed, I do not know, on the roofs of Tallinn or Tartu or Pärnu apartment buildings, the consumer would be there. I know there are problems in some places where it is said that the consumer cannot put up a solar panel park for his own use. If he puts a solar panel park in the power he consumes himself, it is not possible that the networks will not survive because he has a network built today for his own consumption. He can sell out the same amount of power on the same road. So actually doing business maybe it's not right to put [sun parks] on the field, especially if we know that every square metre or hectare of arable land is at the cost of gold. We shouldn't be building solar-pane parks there. We have rooftops for that. But the other thing is, think about what safety it is when we have our own recordings at home. We don't have to put a lot of money into network development. But the second [plus] is that we know that there have already been five big windstorms this winter, where there have been power outages. If you have a 5-kilovatine battery somewhere, you'll survive a few days. If you don't waste the kilowatts on cooking in the oven and the electric sauna doesn't go, you can do it. You don't have to put millions into network developments that may be needed in five or ten years. For once, it's a place where an interruption can occur because of the wind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U23	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've been studying this subject in connection with the presentation. I wanted to ask you about that. At the end of last year, in December and January, quite a number of Estonians were surprised not to say shock. And, of course, [whispering] the housemaker's bills. What awaits people in the autumn? What decisions has the government made? In the autumn, when the new heating season begins, do we expect new surprises, or do the decisions that have been made help us in the autumn, or is it as usual for this government to run after events?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U25	To be honest, it is clear that indecisiveness is still present. We have not given the opportunity to quickly develop wind farms, which, as the fastest option, would be to produce more electricity. We have not agreed to trade in CO2 quotas so that banks do not generate this price. This is not the price that governments and producers are creating today, but it is, in fact, stock market goods. And when we talk about gas, the decisions of the LNG terminal [should have been made at least] two weeks ago. They have not been made to this day, and in this two weeks, hundreds of millions of them will all be more expensive for our consumers, because I do not know if there are now any more ships to rent, and if there are, I do not know at what price. But the price of gas on the market has risen because everyone understands that now there is a need to buy more gas from somewhere. Europe is saying that we are buying everything at once and we are buying 90% of the quantity somewhere in the warehouse, but we know that at the moment when the purchase volume is growing, the goods are going to the stock market and the price on the stock market is rising. So we can see with fear that this autumn these prices could rise. And when we talk about gas, when there is no gas coming into Latvian underground tanks, gas consumption is practically left to private consumers. 100,000 domestic customers may be getting a roomwarm, but on the business side, the gas will be turned off.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U26	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U27	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I liked the idea of a solar park under a wind farm so you can save space and everything. In this regard, I remembered that the Poles built their own mast nets in such a primordial nature. This is probably not what we would imagine in Estonia, that a mast would be erected somewhere in the middle of the wilderness. But it is that if the mast is there, then the mast is double: do not touch! In this light, maybe we can use this efficiency to our advantage? We also have some areas where people don't really need to go out there. There would be wind and solar parks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U28	Yeah, a hybrid park like that has one big advantage. Usually, when there's wind, there's no sun, and when there's sun, there's no wind. Perhaps the connections and networks should [be so constructed] that they can be used simultaneously. During high pressure, the sun shines, the sun parks work, but at the same time, there's usually no wind. And vice versa. We're gonna win a lot of money by joining up and building networks. Hybrid parks could be in areas where the land is not very valuable. This is one of the ways and opportunities of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U29	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U30	Thank you. Dear waitress, We are talking about wind farms, we are talking about solar panels, but there are a lot of keywords behind this, such as security of supply, connection to the grid, which we cannot do. We put a large pile of solar panels on the field, but we can't connect them to the grid. It's very easy to build a high-value rally there, because the field is beautiful. But maybe there's food to be produced there, it would be more appropriate. But here's my question. How does it feel that we have a long-term plan for electricity supply? Are there any risks planned and accounted for, the risks discussed, any plans made to manage these risks when one or the other situation arises? Do we know where we're going, or are we only going today, that we're going to do it, tomorrow we're going to do it, as it seems?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U31	Thank you for a good question. As I said in my speech, unfortunately, we do not have a plan. Today we should actually discuss here the future energy plan presented by the government, but it is not. First there should be a plan, then there should be a political message from the Riigikogu, then decisions and after that, investment grants to implement this plan. Unfortunately, there isn't one today. I must admit that I have not been able to do so by the previous governments either. This indecisiveness over the years has created a situation where we are today. At the same time, I must also stress that an individual official may have made his decisions to the situation where we are today. Six wind farms, developed wind farms, have literally stood behind the tantrum of a former official.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U32	Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U33	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Our inflation rate is already above 15% and annual inflation is forecast by the Minister of Finance to reach 12.7%. What's your approach? The government has not been able to take any step towards curbing inflation in the price pressure of energy carriers, which is actually the main engine of inflation. What's your approach? What should the state do about the price logic of the energy sector in order to curb inflation? Secondly, the question is that President Zelenskiy praised the Estonian state in the Estonian parliament for giving up Russian gas. Unfortunately, we have not imposed a war sanction on Russian gas, and we have not set a date for the irreversible, permanent abandonment of Russian gas. What is your vision that has prevented the government from making these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U34	Thank you. As I mentioned in my speech, in fact, the indecision that we have not built wind farms is one reason for where we are today. But another, in my opinion, is the screaming [factor] that we have not been able to decide on the gas issue. We have Alexela's representative Marti [Hääl] in the hall, who has been telling us for the last ten years that he is ready to set up a LNG terminal as an operator. But there must be guarantees to put millions into some kind of investment. To this day, there is no such guarantee. We are honest, if we look at today's situation, the current situation, then Estonia has no other option than Russian gas. If we're honest in this moment. All that is in Latvia's so-called caves is Russian gas. Klaipeda LNG is probably nothing more than liquid gas transported from Russia. On February 25, the red light should have lit on Elering and the government, because Lithuania announced that all gas coming from Kaipeda and going to Latvia would remain in Lithuania. It is not sold to Latvia or to Estonia or Finland, but, if it is left, to Poland. No decision has come from the government to this day. The fact that the decisions of the cabinet are discussed somewhere is in no way legally binding. These are fundamental agreements that can enter the government. But it's not done. I have this feeling today that we are going to meet the winter at much more expensive prices. And if anyone says that you can go all the way from gas to electricity, we have today's power generation capacity in the order of 1000 megawatts at best. But the need is 1600. As I mentioned before, I do not understand how it is possible to put this larger earth into a smaller world. No way! But we're always told we're gonna be on power tomorrow. Yes, I believe that [helps] the Livonian wind farm. When some people from the ministry who constantly throw sticks are sent home, these developments may also be completed. Then it's possible. But how is it possible for two years to expect a less bid that the Ministry should announce? If it had been done, Toots' wind farm would be ready today. The fact that two agencies or public undertakings argue with each other and go to court... In 2017, Toots' wind farm and Aidu wind farm are written in the law. There are only two wind farms that, theoretically, should have received this support. But now it's decided that one can and the other can't. But the amount that is divided by each year is the same thing. If it were divided by two... Well, the private contractor got, thank God, the state company didn't get, we'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U35	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'd like to refocus on Russian gas and LNG. In essence, the government has said with political declarability that the purchase of Russian gas will be discontinued. No steps have been taken in real life. Moreover, the government itself does not actually buy Russian gas, it is still purchased by private companies. I have a question for you, too, how do you see it? What steps should we take today, tomorrow, perhaps yesterday, when the country looks at Russian gas? Should we make decisions alone if Finland and Latvia are not ready to come along so quickly? Moreover, as a result of these steps, what should be the role of the state? Should he do so alone or in some kind of cooperation with private operators? Should the burden be placed on the shoulders of private operators, and should the state support in any way? What's your vision of this thing? What's the take-off and follow-up now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U37	The launch should have been made in mid-March. A clear message for entrepreneurs: we guarantee that in the next period, I do not know, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten years, Russian gas may not be sold in Estonia. At this point in time, the companies would have used all their resources and resources to build the LNG vessel's reception infrastructure and Elering would have been obliged to connect the infrastructure to the gas pipeline. Legally, these decisions have not been made. We read today, somewhere on European news, that there are three countries in Europe that have given up Russian gas: Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. That was really nice news, but it's actually a lie. Today, Latvia's containers have, I think, a 100% chance of Russian gas. There's nothing coming from anywhere else, only Klaipeda is possible. But Klaipeda, Lithuania, has said it will all go to Lithuania. Today should be and we hope that there will be a message from the government, 100% confidence and a guarantee for the developers. According to yesterday's press release, Alexela and Infortar have struck their hands and are ready to come to the aid of the people of Estonia, because unfortunately the government is incompetent on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U38	Good waitress, now is the agreed time for both presentation and questions is over. And now we are waiting for Marko Allikson, member of the board of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ. As a reminder, Mr. Allikson has up to 20 minutes to conceive. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U39	Hello, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and good members of the Riigikogu! I am trying to present a picture of the market, particularly the energy crisis, as an opportunity that we see in this connection. I'll get right to the point. Compared to last autumn, I was here last autumn, too, the Russian aggression in Ukraine is a new catalyst for energy development. The problem is that more than 40% of natural gas, almost half of coal and more than a quarter of oil products come to Europe from Russia. Today, Russian coal has been sanctioned in the European Union. We know that, from 10 August, Russian coal should no longer be purchased on the basis of existing contracts. Oil sanctions are under consideration, but the withdrawal of gas is, above all, a huge challenge that we will see from the market. It seems quite clear that the European Union will not be directly freed from Russian gas dependence as early as 2022. Indeed, if you look at the European Union's plan, 150 billion cubic metres of Russian gas will be purchased. You can see two smaller columns on that slide. One is the European Union's assessment of how to get rid of this gas dependency, and there is also the International Energy Agency's assessment in 2022. As you can see, it doesn't cover all the dependence on Russian gas, but it covers, let's say, two thirds of it, and most of it is LNG. So the biggest alternative to Russian gas is LNG and looking at it is an opportunity for the European Union. But this means, above all, very high demand for LNG in the near future. If you look at the map of the European Union, you can see that the LNG terminals are in this picture, these blue dots are in fact the main parts of Western and Southern Europe and the UK, are also in the Nordic countries. Sweden is also quite well covered. But unfortunately, they are not in Germany. Central Europe does not really have major alternatives. Germany, Austria and Slovakia are the countries most affected by Russian gas. More than half of Germany's gas imports come from Russia today and it is pipeline gas and LNG combined. The entire gas system in Europe is built on the assumption that this gas is mostly coming from Russia. Its conversion in the short term is essentially not possible. The biggest problem at the moment is, in fact, that if you even try to add LNG to, for example, Spain and Portugal, then it actually does not reach northern or central Europe, because it simply does not fit. The pipes in the meantime are too small and they don't even sell power in that direction. For example, no direct gas flows are yet foreseen from France to Germany. Gas flows are moving from Germany to France because historically this has been the case and the market has not taken this into account so that these flows can move the other way around. It takes a lot of restructuring to get the gas flow to the other side in the first place. The implementation of the LNG project in Paldiski would really save the gas supply of Estonia next winter. I certainly want to congratulate the participants in the project, and I think that is a very strong word. If you look at the map of the Baltic States, our problem is that even if a lot of natural gas could come in from the LNG terminal in Klaipeda, the connection between Lithuania and Latvia is actually limited. And if you take the scenario that Russian gas is no longer coming from today, and now there are about 7.5 sharpers in natural gas containers, then let's say that, in a good case, maybe up to 10 sharps could fill this container. So about half of Inčukalns' tank could be filled before winter and without Russian gas, the other half will not be filled. This is insufficient and this means that, without an additional supply channel, gas consumption needs to be significantly limited. The Lithuanian-Polish gas connection, which will be completed in May, is more likely to lead to gas extraction, especially when gas comes from Russia, because in Poland too, most gas has actually come from Russia. So they simply buy LNG in Klaipeda and deliver it to Poland via the same Lithuanian-Poland interconnection. Indeed, Paldiski is a technical opportunity to resolve the situation quickly this year or this winter. Finland's consumption of this Paldiski solution will, of course, remain limited to the volumes of the Balticconnector and the Finnish LNG terminal Hamina. Compared to figures, Finland's consumption at peaks can amount to 100 to 200 gigawatt-hours a day, but the Balticconnector provides 50 to 60 gigawatt-hours a day. This means that a large part of Finland's consumption, if it were at today's level, would be uncovered even if this gas were to pass through Balticconnector to Finland. This is not quite a solution to the problems of Finns; the problems of Finns must probably be resolved differently in the long term. These are important issues for the market. We know the deadline: on 1 November there should be a floating terminal, but where the gas would be degasified. Market participants need to know at some point when LNG ships can be ordered in order to receive gas, what tariffs are, what calendar plans are, all such issues. The sooner they become known to the market, the better it will actually be ensured that the gas will come from there. The completion of the terminal on 1 November does not necessarily mean that natural gas will enter on 1 November. It is certainly important to have a deadline for ordering natural gas, when these ships could be ordered there. An important aspect is that the white ship that could be in Paldiski will save us from security of supply, but it will not save us from the price shock if Russian gas supplies are interrupted. In this diagram you can see, this black line is the TTF price line from the beginning of this year. It can be seen that it was between EUR 65 and EUR 95 in January and February before the war. As soon as it went to war, the price went up. On 7 March, the price was EUR 345 per megawatt-hour. Today, we are moving between €100 and €105 megawatt-hours. But this 345 is a sign. This means that on a very likely day, when it is absolutely clear that there will no longer be Russian gas in Europe, I fear that this price will be closer to 345 than 100. This threat is pretty serious. And what Estonia is doing, whether it buys gas from Russia or does not buy gas from Russia, whether we have a terminal here or not, it does not play any role in this price, because our volumes are so small. Our prices depend on the prices elsewhere. Why is this price going so high? This price gives a two-way signal in the market. One thing is that the gas will be very expensive and should not be consumed. Those who are able to give up consumption at this price are likely to give up. And another signal: there should be a lot of LNG in here. LNG is the only practical alternative to pipeline gas, and basically we have to offer, like, over the price that Asia or other countries, other regions wishing to obtain gas could pay for it. We very much hope that the price will not remain at this level for a long time, but it is still rather above this EUR 100, because this is the situation at the moment. I'd say it's just a little bit of a time of fear. The risks have not materialised; Russian gas is still coming, but also EUR 100 is not a cheap price compared to last year, for example, where the price was around EUR 20 at the same time. One important aspect of the market is certainly the European Union's plan for filling gas containers, which should be taken into account. There is currently a consultation, the aim is to fill the gas tanks by 80% this year by 1 November. A small calculation shows that if it requires at least 600 terawatt-hours of natural gas, EUR 60 billion is needed, or more than EUR 40 billion more than last year. In addition, the market price will be higher this summer than in winter, which means that someone will have to pay for it. This difference between the price of summer and winter costs EUR 3 to 6 billion when the whole tank is filled. So the European Union must find money for market participants to finance it. In the case of Latvia, for example, if we were to fill the Inčukalns container, about 9 terawatt-hours of gas would need to be bought. It costs EUR 600 million more than last year. Similarly, there is a price difference of EUR 50 to 100 million in summer and winter, which somebody will have to pay for. It is clear that no energy trader voluntarily buys more expensive gas in summer to sell it cheaper in winter. Today, unfortunately, the market shows this. This is one problem that really needs to be resolved, and one must also find a way to actually motivate it to buy natural gas. As a result of all this, since the risk of Russian gas supply being disrupted is high and the Russian gas replacement plan is long-term, any price reductions we expected in the coming years, which will happen in the coming quarters, at least in terms of natural gas, have been delayed quite a bit. In this picture, prices are at current market prices in 2023 to 2026. As we can see, the 20-euro price level will not be seen for years. Which means that if the price of gas is high, the prices of electricity and heat will also be high for years to come. Higher energy prices actually mean high raw materials prices, high product prices, high commodity prices, high food prices. Unfortunately, they're all connected. At least in the Baltic region, we are less prepared for a disruption of electricity supply on the part of Russia. Frequency exits have been prepared for a long time. The share of imported electricity from Russia is relatively low and Finland is able to replace Russian imported electricity relatively quickly thanks to the new nuclear power plant. However, if electricity is stopped coming from Russia and gas supply is cut, then the impact on our price is that more gas is needed, especially in Latvia and Lithuania, because it mainly produces electricity from natural gas and rather increases gas use. Perhaps the need for gas in the event of a disruption of electricity connections will increase. Which means that this problem is amplified. If we look at electricity prices, high prices will last a long time. Here's a picture of the price expectations of the financial markets. As you can see, the next quarters are, let's say, at EUR 120 to EUR 180, next year's product price will be EUR 130 to EUR 140 and the next year will also be more than EUR 100 per megawatt-hour. One point that is important from the point of view of the market and which is always taken into account by the market is that when consumers receive subsidies, consumption does not actually decrease. You're gonna continue to consume. This is what has happened this winter. Many consumers have had old contracts that have survived, but now new contracts are being made, but of course subsidies mean that consumption will continue. So we need to get that gas somewhere. The fact that consumers in the European Union or our consumers are actually able to reduce consumption has not yet been very demonstrated. There's no sign of that anywhere. We do not yet know what the reaction will be if consumers actually have to reduce their consumption. An important aspect, particularly from the market point of view, is that the state is generally very good at resolving crises, because the market generally becomes emotional in the event of crises, prices rise and cannot react. But market-based mechanisms are generally those that offer long-term solutions. Here the pictures have a normal cost curve for electricity price formation. Today, high electricity prices are determined by gas prices. If you set a price limit somewhere and say that the market price must not rise above that price, then what really happens is that in the long term, this electricity is simply not produced anymore. And then it's even worse. Yes, there are a number of countries that have tried to regulate [this way]. In France, for example, electricity has its own price in the internal market, but we see that, in addition to having its own cheaper price on the internal market, there is also a spot price in France, which is at the European record level. It must also be taken into account that nuclear plants there are not very reliable. There have been discussions on the charging of gas prices in Europe. This, too, is actually having such an effect that no one today can judge what the final effect is. There's such a real butterfly effect that you take one step and then find out that you still have to adjust, adjust, adjust every next thing. I fear that it is very important here to find a balance that is still regulated and not regulated in times of crisis. What the state should do and what should be allowed to do in the market is very important to find this balance. And in the case of a balanced energy policy, there are three aspects in the same way. In recent times, the most important thing in the last month is really security and security of supply. This is because Russia's gas and electricity and other things must probably be abandoned, because it makes sense, given the aggression that is taking place there. But for us in the electricity economy, prices and competitiveness, the environment, climate change, are also important issues. And what will happen next winter, which will be in the future, in the longer term. Especially long-term plans need balanced solutions, not rushing. And we should trust [the starting point] that we will rather create a system and a mechanism that will help resolve matters in the market. I have also pointed out some important areas of concern that we see in Estonia's energy supply, especially given Russia's dependence on fossil fuels. There are problems in the electricity market. It is clear from the price problems on the issue market that they will not actually be resolved this year. It is not yet known whether prices go up or down. This depends, rather, on whether there is a major contraction of consumption. When it does, prices will naturally fall. However, there is a risk that coal plants will need to be used so much that CO2 expenditure will increase significantly compared to today's gas plants. Indeed, we do not know the effect of the price. At the moment, it is about 77 euros, slightly lower than it was at the end of last year. However, it is clear that there is no important solution for market participants here. Indeed, the minimum task of the shale plants has been talked about this has not yet existed. At present, the regulation of the local benefits of renewable energy is jammed. There are many such vague signals for the developers of the sun parks. There are relatively complex planning processes, there are phantom connections that interfere with the arrival of new capacities. Waiting for radar, anything else. There are no incentive mechanisms for the rapid implementation of large projects that are actually ready. In fact, it would be necessary for some things that have been standing for a long time to start. Maybe it's possible that a white ship will come into these areas and help move life forward. We have the readiness to synchronise with Central Europe, but there is essentially no market for frequency products. The balance sheet market in the Baltics is also in a very difficult situation, because the prices of balance sheet energy have completely disappeared due to spot market prices. This means that stock market packages for all will become more expensive in the future, because they cannot be managed on the basis of their small margins, as is currently the case. I would also like to highlight the key elements of the pollution market. One thing is certainly that the country is a good crisis solver. At present, it is also important to consider how the market would operate on a market-based basis in the long term. Such questions: who should own terminals, who owns them, how much national stock should be on the market, how it should be handled. All of this affects market prices, market activity and market participants. One moment, which in fact will certainly occur with LNG, is that there is a risk of increased market concentration. In fact, LNG can only be bought by very big players. In the case of a ship, if the megawatt hour costs EUR 100, one point hour costs EUR 100 million. You have to have 100 million euros to buy a shipload of natural gas. It's a lot of money, not everyone has it in their pockets. In the case of heat supply, the biggest problems are certainly the increase in the price of chipped wood, which has occurred in particular due to high demand. It is also very difficult to replace gas in many places. If you think about the next winter in advance in the short term and try to use oil shale oil or something else, then it immediately turns out that there are problems with sulphur emissions and so on and so forth. Resolving them in the short term will require substantial support for businesses, or otherwise they may not even be resolved. On the market side of electric cars, for example, today's development of liquid fuels [replacement] is relatively modest compared to our Nordic neighbours in particular. A few questions to leave up. Maybe this difficult time will help solve such things. The Estlink 3 project will certainly provide greater price stability for our consumers in particular. This would provide greater price certainty because Finnish prices are lower. Accelerating the development of wind and solar energy, in particular by speeding up the [achievement] of large volumes, for example for wind energy developers already today, taking into account the arrival of radars in 2025. In Lithuania, for example, planning processes are very accelerated and there are many things to learn from them. There is the issue of network development obligations, incentives for faster use of free capacity, as well as the issues of flexibility in non-fossil energy production and consumption, nuclear and hydrogen issues and even simple honeys for electric cars. Support for the purchase of an electric car, support for the construction of charging infrastructure by housing associations, as is the case in Finland. In Finland last year 10% of new cars were electric cars, and in Estonia it was about 2%. There are things you can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U40	Okay. Let's get to the questions. Start Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Marko Allikson! Our good colleague Aivar Kokk, who is the initiator of today's OTRK, was extremely critical in talking about the topic 'From the electric crisis to the energy shock'. I am asking such a question that Estonia is not alone in this electricity crisis. The European Union, the European Commission, has just launched a major project called "RePower EU" and so on and so forth. Everyone's trying to solve these situations. Maybe you should have seen them sooner, but, well, that's the way it is. What do you say to the normal electricity consumer, to the energy user [after] all this fine presentation, to give the assurance that we will not be left without electricity next year or the year after that and that we will not actually pay ourselves apart? Explain this with a few sentences, but not with experts, but with [normal] consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U42	As an adequate market participant, I understand that we have sufficient electricity connections both with other countries and with other electricity generation in the region. We're definitely not gonna lose electricity because of that. We're being rescued by connections. Since we produce less in this Baltic region than we consume, we must always import. Luckily, there are connections. Indeed, there will be electricity. But the problem is really priceless. I don't dare give anyone confidence what the price of electricity will be. Just because it is clear that when Russian gas purchases are stopped, it will bring up gas prices. Our prices are linked to the prices of gas in Central Europe, and it can be said that our prices are going up, too, with relatively strong poison.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! There's a rumor here that the Minister of Economic Affairs might want to change jobs. For example, if you were given the position of Minister of Economic Affairs, considering your competence, thank you also for such an interesting presentation! And not only that this place is given, but also the so-called great powers, what would you do in the current situation in the light of all this talk? Would you put a bullet in your head or give it up or what you'd do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U45	It is very difficult to respond to job offers before the Riigikogu and it is probably very hypothetical in this case. The field of work of the Minister for Economic Affairs is very wide at the moment. If I was the Minister of the Economy, my days would be full. That's the list I showed you at the end of it. I believe that we have quite a few areas in energy where another white ship could be brought, just as this LNG ship is coming to Paldiski. Of course, in these difficult times, it seems that the moment could be helped primarily by agreements. They need a little social agreement, but [in particular] need transnational agreements, because we are very much dependent on what others are doing. With regard to the same LNG, I would like to acknowledge, in particular, the agreement with the Finns. If you look at this process as a market participant, when I first saw that this ship was coming, but you still have to agree with Finns and Latvians, then [I thought] we all know history. These agreements will never come about. But this time it seems that at least with the Finns some sort of agreement has been made. And that's actually a good sign. It means someone did something right to get some kind of agreement. I believe that, as Minister for Economic Affairs, probably we should try to find such agreements, do everything we can to obtain such agreements. And that it can really be decided. Without judgment, obviously one Minister for Economic Affairs will do nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, I really ask that we check some language. Certain artistic exaggerations may not later be as understandable as they may be in this Chamber when they read the verbatim. I'm really asking you to check the word usage. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U47	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Thank you for this very intriguing presentation. I got answers to questions I didn't even know I had. But I'm asking you about the Russian gas exit. Is there really an understanding among the markets and analysts [that this should be done]? Well, it is clear that Germany will not be able to do this in 2022, but is it the understanding that in the coming years it will inevitably have to be done, that sanctions will not only be a matter of the next month or a half, that perhaps something else will appear on the news instead of war, but that sanctions will have to be maintained until Ukraine has won and the peace treaty has been concluded, the war criminals will be brought to justice? We are actually talking about a very long process, and this need to exit will never go away in spring. And the second is the question of a layman. This market for frequency products, is it something for large companies willing to adjust their consumption according to the need to maintain the frequency? What is the market for frequency products?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U48	The answer to the first question is that yes, the market thinks that Russian gas will be abandoned. I have also shown here a picture of gas prices several years ahead. These price levels are so high that they foresee that there must be additional natural gas from somewhere else to calm the market. This price level of EUR 35 is not LNG, the price level of natural gas production. If there is enough natural gas in the country or, say, in the world, the price will fall. As you saw in 2020, the price fell to around EUR 5 per megawatt-hour. And let's say that EUR 5 per megawatt-hour is the minimum level for cheaper gas producers. Somewhere around 3 to 4 euros is perhaps the level of the Russians. However, LNG is also produced at significantly lower prices in several locations. Every time the price is above this level, it means that there is a lack of gas and an attempt is being made to attract new producers to the market. That's what this high price means. The market for frequency products can be both large and small. In the sense that there are consumption aggregates such as those that automatically switch on or off some kind of consumption to respond to demand or supply on the market. So it's actually for all kinds of consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U49	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for a very meaningful presentation. But I would ask why gas prices have risen in the summer of this year or at this point in time, and in this view the government decided to increase the national gas supply of one point-hour. What does this really mean for Estonian gas consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U51	Was the first part of the question the reason for the increase in prices? At this point in time, it can be said that gas prices are above all due to what is happening in Ukraine, and also because Europe's natural gas tanks are not sufficiently full and the task of filling them is very high. Let's just say it would be necessary to buy more than 600 terawatt-hours of natural gas across Europe by autumn. This means that, if there is such demand, European prices are high. The market shows that summer prices are just higher than in winter. And it's a little bit like signaling first and foremost that buying into a container actually pushes up the price. And maybe it's thought that actually in winter, even if we get [necessary] gas into the tank, the Russian gas flow will continue, and maybe in winter we won't need that kind of effort. It's like the background. When we talk about buying stock in Estonia, it does not affect the price of anyone in the European context. It's more like a drop in the sea. Our price comes from elsewhere. This is the case, however, that we must, like, live with what we are getting from Europe. The price is influenced by very large consumers: Germany and other Central European countries. But if you put it in the context of what it means to buy such a reserve in the Baltic region, it is undoubtedly a very large amount and it is quite a challenge. I'm afraid it won't be possible to fill it without buying Russian gas. That is definitely one aspect. And what matters is what will be the regulation in the future, how it will be used in the future. Is this a type of stock, such as the United States oil stock, which is being placed on the market at the appropriate moment, or is it, however, a direct crisis stock which, if balance sheet managers do not have enough gas, will be given balance sheet managers to use to cover their potential consumption of consumers? It all depends on how precise regulation will be linked to it. And this precise regulation is not actually ready. I understand that Elering is preparing it, and I suppose it will reveal the final impact on the market. I can't predict and I can't appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U52	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U53	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. I have a question in the context of electricity and prices. You said we had enough connections, but you're not sure there's any money to buy this energy at last. I mean the end user. But that energy is at least there. I am also a person of market faith, and many things can be foreseen, but not everything. What happened in February was not known. When you were here last time, we couldn't see it coming. I have a question of how, if we look six months ago, the same Russian gas that has to be put into Europe [must] was put into green energy. Today, it's forbidden energy. Pretty quickly, green can be banned. What are these short-term and long-term recommendations for legislators, politicians? What are we doing now? Of course, there are many [steps] long-term sea wind parks and other things to achieve the goal, but what could be the short-term [measures] so that we can buy energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U54	Yes, short-term and very short-term, when we talk directly about this winter, let's say there are relatively few things we can do for this winter. In practical terms, the same LNG project that Marti will be talking about is the only one with a very high impact. It would be good if we could build new windmills and more solar parks, but we are now in mid-April, and that means that they are unlikely to be finished. It would probably also have a significant impact if heat producers were to make life easier if, for example, they had to switch from gas to another fuel. These are the things that still could be done this summer to be ready when, for example, gas is not enough in winter. They're quick work this summer. I would say that everything else is still long-term [actions] and it is wise to think well and consider what is best for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U55	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for a very good and meaningful presentation. I'm actually asking about the gas replacement or the alternative. You also mentioned the possibilities of using wood in your report. In a bit of calculation-rearing, I came to the conclusion that, even now, where we have a very high price of firewood, the price of energy wood, practically doubled compared to the very low price of last year, it is clearly cheaper and cheaper than gas at today's prices. And it has also been said that we need half a million additional cubic metres [of wood] to replace [gas] in our boiler houses. How real do you think it is? How do you think this would be feasible as an energy expert? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U57	I think that is a good question for direct heat producers. I'm not the heat producer's representative. But there's one thing I can still repeat. Let's say, when we talk about the next winter and it is possible, either through regulation or some sort of temporary relief, for companies to simplify transitions, that is something that can be done right now. In the longer term, however, wood is only one of the alternatives for both heat production and renewable energy generation. They're all connected. In Germany, it is common practice to say that we do not need nuclear plants; they do not help to free us from gas dependence at all. But it's still helping. Just because, at these times, when you're using other alternatives, gas doesn't have to use that much. I guess that big collection comes from little bits. Unfortunately, in today's situation, it is probably not possible to say that we are not looking at this at all, we are excluding it. The exclusion would probably not work well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U58	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U59	Good waitress, thank you very much for this very brief presentation. I have a question. The 11 production capacities on the slide are immediately combined with wind, sun and water, where there is no variable cost. At the same time, two slides later about heat supply are telling the truth: local chipping timber is rising rapidly due to increased demand. And we know that the prices of chipping wood have risen exponentially since the government took all the limits off in the combustion of wood in the electricity [production] boilers of Eesti Energia. We know that there is no reason to rely on imports in the near future. And that means that if we still thought that this cogeneration would be relatively low at variable cost, it would actually exponentially increase. What do we do now? And how do you think this will affect our heat prices in the coming season? What can we do now to avoid another shock coming from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U60	I'll explain these two slides first. One shows the evolution of electricity prices. In the case of electricity generation, cogeneration is in this sense a "black run' that is produced primarily for heat and the rest, electricity will be placed on the market anyway. This means that it is always cheaper than other electricity, although its actual cost may be higher. If, then, the fact that fuel consumption is higher than the price at which the company sells may result in the regulator being approached and a new price being charged. That's what happens to us. If someone can no longer sell at an old price, then they have to submit an application to the regulator and show them, justify their costs, and then the price will be changed. And then there is the company's own decision on what level and how it actually sells it within the price limits. So this is a direct link: higher raw material prices lead to higher heat prices. But indeed, in what way would it be [to be mitigated]? It is certainly a question of how much chips are available on the market or whether [at all] is available. Any decision that increases the market from which to buy for potential buyers will contribute to price reductions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U61	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U62	Good manager! Dear waitress, once again, I congratulate you. It's been a long time since I've heard a sober man's story that we're actually about to hear. That we're waiting for a white ship, and the rest of the stuff is gonna need a clear head from us. But a little question. You said that the possibility of solving emission market price problems at EU level should not be expected at the moment. But I have heard from the high-ranking dignitaries that these things will be settled immediately. Can you expand it a little bit? You said that there is no prospect of resolving issues in the issuing market in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U63	First of all, the price of CO2, this price mechanism is shaped by a directive. This means that there must be consensus to change this entire market mechanism; Member States must give their consent. A number of proposals have been made to date, but no solutions have emerged from these proposals. And knowing these processes in advance, you could say that if at one point a solution were to happen, there would probably be one date from when this solution would come into effect, and so on. But these processes are not even there yet, so that there is some kind of clear message to the market. The market is waiting, indeed. Apparently, some sort of, well, better functioning price regulation mechanism is being put in place. To date, this old mechanism, which exists, has not reacted despite the fact that prices have increased significantly. But how can this be done on a market-based basis? That is a very difficult question. That's why I'm saying it can't be made so hard, let's say it's going to be like this tomorrow. Everything needs very good thought-out, as making one decision may mean an effect in a completely different place. The carbon market automatically affects the electricity market, the price of electricity. In fact, the main objective is to motivate [production] of renewable energy. By changing this whole system, the aim is for us to have more renewable energy and for the production of energy from fossil fuels to be replaced. Unfortunately, it takes time to think this through to make all these things work at once. And it is not in the hands of Estonia alone; it is not in the hands of individual Member States, who may even wish to do it quickly and well. Unfortunately, there are countries in the European Union that think that it does not need to be changed at all immediately. And as long as there is a need for an agreement, we need to find some kind of common understanding of how to proceed with it in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U64	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U65	For my part, thank you very much for a very substantive report. I have to say that you have an excellent ability to formulate complex problems simply, based on the aspects to be discussed. But my question is that yesterday, amendments to the building code were adopted in this very hall, which should give rise to the construction of sea wind parks. This volume is estimated by the European Commission at 8 gigawatts. About the same number of applications for building permits have been submitted or have already been initiated and more or less the same number is in the queue. My question. You know the network that carries energy around Europe. In view of the future, how does this potential energy reach consumers in what form and through what networks? What do you think of that? At the moment, it is still completely unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U66	Yeah, right now we're only seeing it as a vision. The vision is that a large number of electricity is produced at sea when the wind blows. And there the wind blows more than on earth, the windmills are bigger, so the volumes are big. They are connected to terrestrial networks, and not only in one country, but perhaps even in several countries at once. And indeed, if this renewable energy is left over at one point, then the longer term idea is that it is also used to store hydrogen. But let's just say that this future is still pretty far away. When we talk about hydrogen, the first challenge is probably to replace the current kind of gray hydrogen with green. From there, the next steps will be to start recording the electricity produced in wind farms. When they are finished, these solutions will also emerge in parallel. Of course, we have a huge impact on the implementation of such projects and these are very important projects. The sooner they [experience], the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U67	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U68	Thank you. Let's talk a little bit about oil shale energy, that's a little less talked about today. With the current government's decision at the end of 2023, some energy blocks should be shut down in Narva. Today we know that at the moment we do not have enough capacity to cover the need for Estonian consumers to talk about the fact that there will be no additional power generation during this year and a half. How do you see if this reserve capacity should still be maintained until we have wind farms ready and no new production capacity? Yeah, that's 20 million every year. But if we do not make these decisions in the coming days, then 2023 will be considerably smaller in Estonia than today. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U69	As long as there are no other options, we must use what is. Of course, oil shale plants need security, at least until the moment they have alternatives. There are no direct alternatives today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U70	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U71	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I'll pick up where Aivar Chef left off. Indeed, I think we ran a little too far into a green turn and didn't hedge those risks. We thought that everything would be very pink in the future and that all problems would be solved by themselves. And I guess it wasn't only a gas price shock that shook us here, but also an electricity price shock. And now you yourself said that basically we do not have any illusions that we will have a gas price, which is very clearly linked to the price of electricity, which will fall as an average in the future. Should we not, now that oil shale energy has been a core source for us, take cardinal steps to decouple ourselves from the price of the CO2 quota? This represents a very large part of the price of oil shale electricity. Maybe at least during this transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U72	The market price of electricity is determined by such a marginal producer and the time on the Estonian market when oil shale plants determine the price of electricity is not very high. Which means that regardless of whether Estonia actually pays for these quotas or does not pay for these quotas, the price of electricity is the same. And there may indeed be a few hours in which Narva stations should determine this. The second aspect is that the CO2 market is inseparable from the electricity market in the European Union. These two aspects [exist] hand in hand and their modification can be combined. To be honest, I do not see a practical way in which this can be done separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U73	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U74	Thank you, Mr President. I have this [question]. I told you that the Russian war in Ukraine has changed quite a lot. Do you think there are any indications that the carbon market could change in this regard? Before we talked about the gas, the green was banned. German energy is relatively circular [decided]; all these plant closures have been delayed. More coal has been used again in Poland and elsewhere and so on. So it is as if you are assuming that everything is absolutely linked, these two markets, that there is now a great need to change and somehow intervene in CO2 pricing policy. Or can't you see it yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U75	I think this is where two perspectives need to be separated. Why are we being cautious about changing the carbon market? The reason is to avoid undesirable long-term effects, since the long-term objective is still to support renewable energy and this aspect must not be lost. At the moment, of course, however, the practice is that coal plants use more CO2 [quotas] before gas plants, where there is actually less CO2. It's like the situation's turned upside down. In view of the Russian aggression in Ukraine and the subsequent impact on gas prices, all are more amplified and the same situation will last for a long time. I think it is a point of reflection whether, at some point in time, it is possible to take some measures that could make the situation easier for consumers and producers in the European Union. But on the other hand, it has to be a deal. In the sense that the acceptable level of CO2 prices is very different from the countries that appear to be different. For example, in the autumn the Germans said that the price level of 60 could be at least a minimum. I do not know what could be the minimum for Estonia or what could be the minimum for Latvia, for example. Not everyone's said it yet. Once again, it will take time to reach such agreements. I, like, have little faith that such agreements will be found very easily, but if someone can come up with a very clear idea, I believe that the market understands that there really is something to be done about this situation. It is clear that the European Union has taken up the issue of gas stocks, and so on and so forth. There are decisions that really would not have been conceivable six months ago. The ray of hope stays, the hope dies last.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U76	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, too, thank you for this good review. My question, however, is motivated rather by your responses to Russian gas and potential LNG. The true story, as you yourself mentioned, is that, in essence, [quite recently] the country did not actually pay any additional attention to all of this, neither Estonia nor the whole of Europe. Rather, by looking at Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, it could be said that this was a completely secondary activity. That's my question. There's a new situation today. It is clear that by buying gas from Russia, we are literally buying gas, and this is not rhetoric, but reality, we actually finance the purchase of tanks, military maintenance and so on. This is the question in the Estonian context. The state is well known to have assumed some position in declaratory terms that [the purchase of Russian gas] should be discontinued. How do you see the future role of the country in this context now? What should the country do? There's a private operator somewhere, with his own interests clearly, isn't there? How do you see what the country should do now? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How should the State participate in the re-evaluation of the effects of this sanction and [in its contribution]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U78	Are we talking now, say, about Russia's sanctioning directly? Yeah. At the moment, Russian gas can actually be purchased at the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian borders. In Lithuania, Kotlovka is flowing from Kaliningrad's Russian gas. Today, Russian gas coming in from Finland from Imatra also reaches our region. So Russian gas is moving in this area. And one can count on the fact that most of the natural gas in this container is definitely Russian gas today. This means that he is physically moving here and there is no way to separate it from the system. In the context of the whole region, it must be said that Estonia is particularly small in this region: 5 terawatt-hours of consumption. If we put all the rest here, maybe we can get 50 sharp-hours together, it'll be Finland and the Baltics together. Perhaps more or less so, as consumption has also decreased. This quantity is also very, very small in the context of the European Union. So our decision rather really is a purely political decision, because our impact on the amount of money that Russia receives from the European Union for gas is very small. The main money is actually coming from Central Europe. And as long as that money goes from other parts of Europe, we can make a gesture and set an example. At the same time, I do not think that our influence is far from such that it would make someone on the other side of the border behave differently. It would probably make sense if the long-term direction were to abandon the gas. That would be very reasonable. This should be done as soon as possible, as soon as possible. And beyond that, the real question of politics is whether Estonia or our whole region wants to set an example for others or whether we wait until the European Union as a whole decides something about Russian gas. I think it's a question of their choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U79	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U80	We need to wait, not wait, but to put pressure on Europe. This is a matter of moral standing with regard to the closure of Russian gas in our gas movement area. I have a question for you to explain. Right now, I get it, we have this kind of Luhamaa way of repairing, like I said, right? It's not just physically coming through there while you're repairing the gas. But Russian gas comes to Estonia via this Finnish pipeline, and in reality, the countries of our region have not currently blocked the use of Russian gas as a sanction. Russian gas is coming into us. Let me get this straight. And the question. Mr Netter said yesterday on television that it is misleading to use Russian gas as regards the acquisition of reserves. Eesti Gaas said that it is planned to acquire reserves in spring-summer for the next season. That the government has ordered Russian gas not to be purchased, but other gas may be purchased. What do you mean by "other gas" and, second, how do you imagine it as an expert? And what does that mean? In fact, it is purchased by private purchasers, if no restrictions are imposed, the contracting authorities will. They don't have any ban on buying from one direction or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U81	First of all, these Russian associations. Luhamaa and Värska there will no longer be repaired, repaired and currently physically could actually be purchased. The repair was at the beginning of April. [[They say something in the hall.]] No more purchases and the main reason is purely economic, because the price of Russian gas to the region at the moment is significantly higher than the price at which gas was purchased into the tank a month ago. Let's just say that, figuratively speaking, a month ago, gas was bought into a container at a price of EUR 80 and now it is about EUR 130. 50 euros is the price difference, it's a huge price difference. No one volunteered for it [pays] if that's an option. The Baltic States' good chance of gas is the same container, the container allows it. Today, Russian gas does not come directly to the region. However, Finland buys and commercial flows move from Finland to Estonia as well. In this sense, it is not possible to separate that we now really do not have Russian molecules. Yes, it is. Of course, most of the gas that has already been purchased in the tank is actually Russian gas. Now, in the context of this so-called siege or in the context of an additional or ancillary purchase, I think it will be very difficult to carry out without buying Russian gas. Well, for practical reasons. Because planning processes in the gas and electricity markets are quite long. For example, a month ago, all the capacity from Lithuania to Latvia was actually booked, which is then the pipeline capacity from which to move the gas. It means that if someone at this point wants to take something extra, they just can't take it because it's already been taken away by someone. This means that those potential gas sellers who bring LNG have taken their positions long ago and if they have gas over them and if they have not already allowed it for a customer, it is as if they could sell it to Estonia to fill another sharp-hour volume. This sale can be carried out either in the simplest way, simply by raising natural gas in a storage tank to the account of the Estonian state's reserve. But we know there's a lot of gas in that tank. It cannot quite be ensured that it is not the Russian gas that we [now receive]. Another option is to buy it at a virtual point or market point and for this purpose you should buy a container space to fill the container, where you can put it in Estonia. There are, of course, always limitations and this container space can probably be purchased in May. And then there's the question of how much gas can be put in there that's not LNG. This capacity between Lithuania and Estonia is 67 gigawatt-hours a day. The volume can be placed in the container, say, 100-200 gigawatt-hours per day, depends on what month is currently in place and in what volumes it is placed on the market. And that's it, actually. If there is no gas coming from Russia, there is still a need to cover Estonia's consumption and Latvian consumption. Estonia's consumption in the summer is perhaps 10 gigawatt-hours per day and in Latvia 20 to 30 gigawatt-hours per day. Finland's consumption is close to 40 to 50 gigawatt-hours a day. There's not enough gas here. It's just this paradox. There's gotta be more coming from somewhere, and it's probably inevitable that if we're gonna get this sharp-hour, some of it's gonna have to be Russian gas today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U82	If Leo Kunnas can quickly ask a question in 30 seconds, I'm sure the answer will be given in a minute or two. Let's hurry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your report. You have highlighted the consumption volumes of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. How do they compare, for example, with Hungary and Germany? What could their consumption be? It would be good to compare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U84	I don't really know the numbers by heart, I don't dare say them right now. But I dare confirm that we are talking about very many dozen-fold differences in consumption. We are the decimal place in the European context. Well, what could be compared to, is that if the European Union wants 80% of the tanks to be filled by 1 November, it needs to buy 600 sharp hours. Estonian consumption is 5 terawatt-hours. On this basis, calculations shall be made on how many times the different order of magnitude is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U85	So, great quick job to finish! Thank you, Mr Allikson, for your presentation and your answer to questions. And now we ask the Chairman of the Board of the Alexela Group Marti Vääne of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U86	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm honored to be here in this format for the first time. I'm sure you're not getting as comprehensive and as good a report from Marko, but that's the way the task was assigned to me. I'll try to focus my thoughts on a much narrower section and explain it to you. After the round of questions and answers, of course, you can ask me all the questions, not just from the subject of the report. However, as a preliminary point, I would like to say a few words about the energy market as a whole and explain this so-called crisis or price shock. It seems to me that it is often forgotten that this balance, which Marko also spoke about, is sometimes called a trilemma, i.e. security, the environment and affordability, are very important components in the resolution of this energy economy [problems]. And if this balance is kept every hour, every minute, in the context of the electricity system, you could almost say that it is not kept every second, then these things happen that the balance between demand and supply disappears. Especially if it is dependent on weather when we talk about the future of renewable energy. Keeping this balance in mind at all times when all strategic decisions are taken, checking all the time whether this sort of checkes out these issues only in such a way that it is possible to solve energy issues and in any way knowingly try to prevent, avoid or get into an energy crisis, such as today's war, to ensure that its consequences are as low as possible. I suggest that, if there is an interest in learning about the so-called entrepreneurs' view of possible scenarios for the future, look up this is a free-to-air "Energy Roadmap." This is the title of the analysis, and this analysis is the result of input and disputes provided by a very large number of energy companies at the Tallinn University of Technology, led by Rohetigr. Why do I think it's a sign report, a sign analysis? In it, practitioners working today have tried to anticipate how the energy turn, how this green turn could be foreseen in the Estonian context. The value of the analysis is that it is a compromise or a symbiosis about how entrepreneurs and practitioners, scientists and, let's say, in a good way, greening agents seem to be what is done and achievable in Estonia. I really think it's worth a lot, because if someone comes and says there's more to it than what's going to be done there in 2030, 2040. In the context of climate neutrality and the energy revolution, it has been said that the poison can be taken by the time it is not a good expression from this remote control, and I apologise, but then it can be relatively convinced that at least the current Estonian Energy companies do not know how to achieve this greater goal. Then somebody's gonna have to come up and tell them how to do it. And this is a picture, one of the most important images of this road map, which tells us that energy consumption in transport is currently 9.5 terawatt-hours, 14.4% in the heating economy and 7.7 in the electrical system. [[Display the slide.]] And as we can see from here, energy consumption is decreasing. The only one where energy consumption does not decrease, remains almost unchanged, or there is a very small increase, is electricity. This decline is taking place both in the heat economy and in transport. Why is it marked? It is symbolic in the sense that, in principle, this position says that a greening can only be carried out if we achieve a reduction in energy consumption. As energy consumption increases, these objectives are not achievable. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because these trends, which would allow energy consumption to be reduced, are also very important in the adoption of decisions in a crisis situation. In essence, it can be said that the whole of Europe, as well as Estonia, are in a certain sense at a crossroads: either to speed up the energy turn or to return to the secure and tried solutions that have always helped us in terms of energy[in supply], but in fact, from the point of view of climate objectives, they will take us back. And this is a very difficult place to choose. In one case, we are saying that it is coal, it is oil, it is oil in the Estonian context, we know how they work, we know how they guarantee energy security and so on, but they certainly take us beyond the climate goals. And I think it's maybe the most difficult place to make a decision. There is much talk about how renewable energy and fuel-free energy production in 2030, 2035 or 2040 could protect us from the price shocks of energy crises. I totally agree. The real question is how to get there. How can we achieve that, for example, in 2035, we are in this mix of energy production or energy sources, which is climate-neutral on the one hand and affordable on the other, and on the other hand is energy security on the other? I think that balancing these issues is the task of juggling which Marko, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, has set up in offering a portfolio of the Minister for Economic Affairs. And it won't be an easy task to keep this balance, because there's a lot of unpopular decisions to make. Especially in this situation where we know that today we are increasingly dependent on imported electricity when talking about electrification, as has already been said here. Our national electricity generation is still very much fossil. I would like to draw one more attention to all of you. When we are talking about resolving the crisis now, we often hear it, I am moving towards LNG, as I was asked, so that the easiest way to stop using gas is to switch to other sources. If we now think again in the key to green turn or climate neutrality, the sources that are called could be roughly said to be two in the short term. One is electrification. So mostly heat pumps, when we're talking about heat production, where the gas is in use, and the other is biomass. It's more like in this toolbox that we're moving towards a green turn or climate neutrality, there's no good dicks. There's another very important component, it's a recording, but we all realize that it's not fast or cheap [solution], it's a recording of hydrogen, it's a recording of [accumulation] or it's a solution of hydropump accumulation or some kind of fourth or fifth technology in the future. Recording for fast, 2030 or 2035 will not offer us a solution. Now, if we're thinking about electrification and biomass, this is the slide right here to characterize the electrification. We are saying that gas consumption in Estonia has always been on a downward trend and is there between 4 to 5 terawatt-hours, so it seems that of the 32 sharp-hours that are consumed in Estonia, this is not such an important part and we will cancel it. But when we think about which fuel the gas is, what it is used for and for which it will be used more and more in the future, [it is clear] that it [is not used] to cover the base load, i.e. not the basic energy consumption, but only in those places where the load needs to be increased or lowered very quickly. These are rapidly regulated power generation capacities. The food industry, agriculture, the chemical industry, the machinery industry in Estonia are around 3000 companies who use gas as inputs. And that's what, roughly, four sharp-hours out of five sharp-hours goes there. And then there are 40,000 more households who are very important, and they need one of the sharp-hours that was actually discussed here in the context of the reserve. I'm not the right person to say which is more important, either 1 point-hour or 4 point-hours. I can give you a personal opinion. This opinion is that what good is a heated room with expensive gas supplies when the job is missing because the company is closed down. And this is where I get back to the peak load. Gas as fuel is specific in the sense that it helps to survive those moments when basics do not work. And when we're thinking of a hero, the main thing is the wind, the sun and the recording. So actually, when we talk about the future perspective, when we think about gaseous fuels, gaseous fuels, future renewable gases, these hydrogen, biomethane or synthetic gases, they actually help to survive these peaks especially in our climate zone when the wind doesn't blow, the sun doesn't shine, and the storage tanks are empty. Looking at today's moment when we are talking about, for example, in the key to the coming years or in the key to the winter that is now coming, if, even in January of this year, there were 2200 megawatts of gas in Estonia and electricity hasn't gone for more than 1600 jokes, then we understand what we heard in this first report that this 2,200 megawatts can't be pushed in quickly. This would require substantial reinforcement of the electricity system, upgrading. And is that reasonable by the end of the day? For once again, when we talk in the context of a green turn and in the context of renewable energy, it is clear that it is renewable energy production and thinning that should, as far as possible, replace the strengthening of the energy system and the heavy cables in order not to build the large and coarse grid that is now needed and which, hopefully, is not needed in the future when this renewable energy arrives optimally. The second is the biomass side. There has probably been much more talk about this in this Chamber, and the question is, above all, what additional felling pressure it creates. I can say personal opinion again. Where biomass can be used in district heating, efficient cogeneration mode, it should be used as much as possible in Estonia. If it is possible to abandon gas, oil shale oil or any other fossil fuel anywhere, this should be done. But this is where we talk about efficiency of about 90% and where biomass is produced from both electricity and heat. However, this consumption capacity is at the edge of exhaustion, and if we continue to talk about biomass only in the production of electricity, so if there is no efficient cogeneration, because there is nowhere to put it, I would say that it is wiser to do with wood than to drive it into a 30% efficient furnace. All these alternatives have a different side and have an alternative cost in the economy. If we have options, how much does one or the other one cost? The rapid transition to heat pumps, not to mention the increase in electricity production and deficit ♪ investment in technology alone in order to replace gas, is one-and-a-half billion. We ourselves imagine the pace at which this investment can be made, whether on a market-based basis or otherwise. And in the case of biomass, as I said, these limitations are even greater. But we know that the consumption of today's 1600 megawatt peak load in Estonia, for example on the cold January day, when the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow, the peak load capacity we control, the power generation equipment that can solve this situation, is not enough, we are already missing them. How some analyst likes to model, but there's a shortage of 400-1000 megawatt-hours. If we put this at the end of the electrification, we'll put 1,000 megawatt-hours of deficit there. And today we depend on imports. What I want to say is that in this development that has been, very right things have been done. The energy economy has invested in the right things. But this coin has a different side and the other side is what should compensate for this renewable energy, which is unmanageable, and cover these vertices when there is not enough energy. This side is part of the orphan child and, in fact, that is what causes shocks in the price of electricity or energy at all. This is not specific in Estonia. The same structural problem is facing the whole of Europe, and that is why we are in the middle of an energy crisis. But now closer to LNG. Having spent last week in Washington and Houston to be sure in his soul or in his heart what is done on a market basis and what is not done, I dare say that there is a way in which, in addition to energy security, it would be possible to resolve the shocks of the energy peaks that Marko spoke about earlier. That requires one thing. I am obviously simplifying very much in terms of time savings right now, but for example, imports of LNG from America would take place on the basis of a contract of at least ten years. Basically, American natural gas producers and liquefactioners treat anything that is less than 10 years of age they would like even 15 or 20 years of age, but everything that is less than 10 years is basically spot transactions or spot transactions and they do not deal with them. The question may arise as to how this is possible. Estonia is so small and Estonia's consumption is so low, and I have also heard that this terminal is not needed, because Estonia consumes only 5 sharp hours. But I have not heard this, I do not know, in the case of the development of offshore wind farms, that Estonia's electricity consumption is so low and why we are building such a large wind farm, we do not need it. It's no different with gas. For years, a common gas market has been built for taxpayers or consumers' money. Thus, not all investments in both the electricity market and the gas market are made in view of the needs of the Estonian or Latvian or Finnish markets, but still in view of the regional, at least regional, need [taking into account]. And when we talk about the gas market, Estonian gas sellers today sell more outside Estonia than in Estonia. Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and I dare say, immediately after the launch of this GIPL tube in May, Poland is actually the markets that are being invested in. Yes, of course there are technical constraints and so on, but basically we do not see such an argument that the LNG terminal is too large for the Estonian market. I have to admit, as an entrepreneur, I do not understand this argument. Coming to that slide now, what am I saying? What I mean by this is that if we look historically at the European Gas Exchange Index TTF and, for example, at the light green line that stands at Henry Hubi, we see that if historically prices have been very close together, then already before the war, in 2021, this price difference has started to tear. So it is not the result of war, it is the result of the structural energy - the so-called disbalans that Europe has. This price keeps climbing up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U87	Good waitress, I'll interrupt for a second. The time allocated to you is over, but we always try to deal with solutions here in the Riigikogu, not problems. And this is where § 67 of the Home and Working Procedures Act comes to our aid. And it talks about the report you are doing now, the honourable waitress, and it says that if a report is made on the agenda item, it will be held in the Chamber where you are at the moment, and it will last up to 20 minutes unless otherwise provided for in this law. And now there will be an important solution. The President may, in agreement with the rapporteur, extend the period for the presentation. And I'm asking you how much more time you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U88	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U89	Okay, then we can make this deal, and you have two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U90	Thank you. This graph, or this picture, will show us this green line in the middle of it is estimated at what price it is possible to bring American gas to this region. This is combined with all costs, the logistics terminal and all other costs of EUR 35 to 36 megawatt-hours. But it assumes that this is a long-term solution. If you make short-term solutions for a year-two, two heating periods, then it is exactly as the previous speaker said that this does not actually give the price any relief. He gives security, he gives security of supply, but the price doesn't change because you have to buy it on the world market as spot cargo and at that price. Is there a frame for that? The new taxonomy of the European Union until 2035 is as if it provides support to anticipate this possibility. But this is very critical because of the length of this period, because the payback period for large investments must, in principle, fit into 13 years by counting from today. It's not easy. Last slide. On the same American gas price, when we're talking about covering the top load, I did a very simple piece of work. If such a power plant works 1000 hours a year, the price would be 220 euros per megawatt-hour. If it worked 2,000 hours, the price would be 140 euros, if 3000 hours, then 113 euros and if 4000 hours, then 100 euros. And how does this issue of peak load usually be solved? It is precisely the capacity charge that will help to compensate for the stagnant and waiting power generation capacity in the electricity market, so that it can start when it is needed. And here I have calculated these numbers, just to describe that if energy subsidies go into a few hundred million within four months, there are actually options and solutions for how electricity and gas prices can be put to a ceiling using market instruments and not requiring annual subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U91	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U92	Good manager! Dear waitress, We're all waiting for the white ship and you, Mr. Voice, are now like the Prophet Maltsvet's incarnation in the autumn. But here's my question. The leaders of Paldiski North Harbour will also follow this debate here. And their question is why the Government of the Republic loves you more than the Port of the North. They had a long time ago plan, they have a 385-meter quay where ships, tankers get [seek], and there is even a tanker with whom there are agreements. He also has a name: Bilbao Knutsen. Could this pipe, three kilometers, build it up to you, wouldn't have to do much [more] and could be done much faster. The question is, why does the Government of the Republic love your company more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U93	Thank you for your question. The short answer is I don't know. I love my husband and maybe I can say something about that. But as far as the particular ship you mentioned is concerned, it is not a floating terminal, it is a LNG tanker. Bringing it to the quay is of no use at all, as this gas would somehow need to be extracted from the liquid form into the gaseous form. That's one. Secondly, the floating terminal at the dock of the Northern Port This would imply that during the operation of this terminal, the school must be closed in Paldiski and the students must evacuate because they remain in this danger zone. It is still a very precisely regulated area where environmental impacts, risk assessments and everything else are assessed, where one or the other activity can be carried out. Let me give you another example. The Klaipeda terminal is not [planned] there, let's say, on the other side of the lagoon or bay, to build the same kind of "harasing dock" and expensive submarine pipe, not because they didn't have a quay line. [It was done] because if they had put it at the dock, the remaining activities of the port should have been terminated. There are certain activities that simply do not fit in with international safety rules. In this case, it is probably the real reason why the environmental impact assessments, risk assessments and so on, which have been carried out in Paldiski, the Pakri Cape or the Gulf of Gulf of Laheperé, and so on, unlike other projects, will allow for this love, if you would say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U94	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U95	Good manager! Good Marti! First of all, I want to thank you for agreeing to come here, and then on the other hand, for this report. But I would ask you how it felt when you were in America a week ago, when it seemed that after you had wiped Estonian dust off your feet, they tried to hijack your long-term business project, which you've been working on for the last ten years. However, today you are literally the only ray of hope for all gas consumers. Do you expect the government to finally be specific? How many weeks has this specificity not come, what will it cost us as final consumers in the end when all things are finished by autumn? Let's hope we put this world record in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U96	Thank you for your question. I don't know how to comment on what I felt back then. Right now, I feel more important than I've ever felt in my life. However, I do not think that it is only up to us. There is a need for very strong, constructive and operational cooperation between several parties. Starting with that, yes, we only have 700 meters from the hauling dock to the shore and from there to another 200 meters from the Balticconnector compressor station, but this pipe connection needs to be realized by autumn. At one end it must be connected to the compressor station and at the other end it must be connected to the floating terminal. This is why we take the example that quick, operational, constructive and say, the solutions, not the trouble-seeking cooperation between Elering and us, could say, the key to success is whether it succeeds or fails by autumn. However, I do not think that anyone in our rule of law, which we consider Estonia to be all, our property or our business project, tried to hijack. I hope it was just media noise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U97	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Marti's Voice! I don't have a conspiracy theoretic question. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that greening can only be done if energy consumption is reduced. But today in this Chamber, we have not heard the words 'energy efficiency'. This is certainly one method for reducing consumption among many, but it requires smart information technology solutions, the Internet of Things and so on and so forth. Do you think there's an extra resource hiding here to reduce energy consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U99	Thank you for your question. It's definitely hiding there. After all, here too, these reports have repeatedly pointed out that this problem, to which the so-called new energy economy, the energy economy based on renewable energy, is how to optimise demand and supply. That, on the one hand, if it is necessary to build production tools with a much higher nominal capacity than before and, on the other hand, the consumer wants to consume at the very moment he wants to consume, that is what the imbalance between the two is about, where digital solutions and'smart' demand and supply management can help. As far as the second half of energy efficiency is concerned, this graph that I showed on the first slide, when I look at it carefully, is the biggest reduction of over 20% in transport and almost 15% in the heating economy. This is, in principle, due only to the efficiency, i.e. the transport assumption, of switching to electric motors, whose efficiency is so much better than that of an internal combustion engine. There's a challenge to the way in which the canada comes with the energy that drives the electric motor around. There [must] be a deeper entrance, I think, because lithium ion batteries are not a solution to environmental problems, but a new environmental problem. There's still a lot of technological progress to be made. On the warm economy side [brings] its 15% drop to 2030 and beyond, 2040 would in principle be the insulation of the entire heated building stock, to say the least. [Can't] waste this heat, which is then predominantly produced from biomass, can't it? These are the two keys. Thus sustainability, and sustainability, among other things, through digitalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U100	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U101	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, It is very nice that in such an exceptional situation, such a rapid reaction will be made and, in fact, by autumn, a solution can be found to enable us to have both roomwarm and everything else. But how is responsibility shared with the government, or what are the current agreements? For example, neither you nor any other company can mitigate the risk that the Estonian state will decide not only to exit Russian gas by 2030, but also from fossil gas as a whole or, for example, to mitigate environmental impacts, and the environmental impact will be in the construction of any energy object, whether we are talking about a solar park or an oil shale mine, to balance [this effect] with the creation of a protected area, for example. This can only be done by the state. What are the existing arrangements with the government to mitigate these risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U102	Thank you for your question. At least I don't know any more deals today. But sometimes you'll know about the arrangements afterwards. I think that managing the political risks associated with a project such as this LNG-ship is the biggest challenge for this project. Of course, building a six-month thing that usually takes a year-and-a-half is a challenge. But, in fact, construction engineering, it is not something that can't be done by those builders who have shown willingness and interest in contributing to the world record, as well as by supervision and all the other parties that are necessary for it. Maybe in this context, I'd like to get one more thing straightened out. From time to time, it is like trying to contrast LNG with the future of renewable energy. Let's just say, on the one hand, I agree that if we disregard the financing aspect of the current Russian aggression, the fact that fossil natural gas arrives to us either from the East or the West is actually bad both ways. Let's just say either way isn't an ideal situation. But why is that necessary? It is necessary because, in order to meet the climate targets of many other sectors, today's technology suggests that gas fuels play a significant role in renewable energy, unlike fossil liquid fuels. Let's start with the waste of the agricultural sector or the waste of the food sector and biogas to catch and use it instead of blowing up methane, right? By 2035 we are, hopefully, talking about, for example, the storage of residual renewable electricity in order to use it when it is needed, not that it will be wasted. And for example, hydrogen in this context, or synthetic gases, are a number of choices. Consequently, the construction of such infrastructure must always be kept in mind, and we also mean that it must be so-called future-proof. This infrastructure must allow, if we can give up fossil LNG hopefully in 2030 or at the latest in 2035, then renewable gases can be handled there. And why can't it work as an export terminal at some point? Last week, on the Gulf of Mexico, I saw that all three LNG terminals I went to were built not long ago to import LNG into the United States. This year America will be the world's largest LNG exporter. This change has taken place in essence over 20 years. As a result, looking to the future, frankly, I see that the credibility of the gas system and maintaining the gas system are one of the guarantees that renewable energy will actually be balanced in 2030. In the 1990s, it will be the main source of base load and energy consumption in this region.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U103	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, thank you very much for this interesting and substantive debate. In your introductory speech, you spoke about the region, right, it must be done with other countries and so on. But it seems to me and many others that in the end of this Russian war, everything depends most on what you have. In this sense, we must try to make agreements with the Latvians and the Finns, but ultimately, if we want to have something here, it depends on how much we want and whether we will do it. Riina asked [about this] and we had already discussed the hypothesis that if one moment the possibilities were lost, the fossil gas could not be delivered at all. Therefore, I ask: what decisions have been taken and what should be taken to make this project happen first before we finish [the others]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U105	Thank you for your question. I agree with a hundred percent that self-perpetuation is practically the most important skill for a small country and nation in particular. 'Cause if we don't make it on our own and nobody needs us, the last one will put out the fire. It is not just about energy. I think we saw exactly the same situation in the health crisis situation two years ago. I think it is all the more important to make use of the possibility offered by Paldiski Terminal. We [can] do something that is more important than Estonia alone. It actually plays such a balancing role in the wider region, perhaps in other matters. I would point out that we are not seriously discussing with Latvians that part of Latvia's underground gas storage should belong to Estonia. But the other way around, when we think about February 27 or 28, when the last phase of aggression started, it took two days for Lithuania to book the entire Lithuania- Latvia gas pipeline and the Latvians were able to bring gas through LNG only because they had an underground storage facility and they said you needed a storage facility, we need a LNG terminal, lets make a deal. This, unfortunately, is the case in crisis situations. And that's why I think it's very important. Now the essence of the question that is needed for this to happen. Essentially, this requires this guarantee. What form should it take? I am not talking about a bill of lading, which does not contain numbers, but about a guarantee if there is a desire for the market or market participants to resolve this issue. Both Latvenergo and Gasum and I have been discussing how to resolve this jointly throughout this period of crisis. But the biggest risk or problem is that I believe in the Latvian Government, the Estonian Government and the Finnish Prime Minister that we are giving up Russian gas, well, let's say so, without a deadline, but I would like to read about it as soon as possible if there is an alternative. But then could it follow that, in a year, two or three, or five, Russian gas will be fine again, then look, market participants, how can you? The hedge of this risk [must] is that, let's say, if there is a Yalta Conference and an agreement, private capital and market participants would not be part of the stupid part of this issue. That's the real solution. There is a need for concrete agreements. We have actually proposed, we realise that Elering has been given a mandate by the government to negotiate them. We have proposed how we will see that this issue can be resolved, and I very much hope that we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U106	Thank you. All right, 21 minutes and 15 seconds left. Good waitress, I would like to ask you to sit down for a moment, because we have to have a procedural vote here. No, nothing has anything to do with your report, it's okay, so just take it easy. But just for a minute, if you can sit down, it'll take a few minutes. It won't take long. Dear colleagues, I now come to what the Group of the Fatherland has asked for. The Isamaa Group has said this: the initiator asks, unless the debate is closed by 13 o'clock, to extend the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We have to make this vote and, as usual, we will also make a call to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U107	The proposal was supported by a majority, 21 votes in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. I now ask the Chair of the Riigikogu to return to the Chairman of the board of the Alexela Group Marti Kohe so that we can continue the round of questions and answers. And I'm asking you to put the time back on, 21 minutes and 15 seconds. Please put that time back on the board: 21 minutes and 15 seconds. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U108	I heard the North Port should evacuate the school. Well, it's about a mile from there. But your terminals, the fuel terminals, they're in the defense force right at the gate. Isn't there a threat? And if you look at this possible terminal of yours, where there will be dredging work, as I understand it, half a million [cannabis] this summer, how much does it actually affect the Gulf of Lahepere ecosystem and also Laulasmaa, Kloogaranna village and so on, what lies on the Gulf of Lahepere?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U109	Thank you for your question. As far as hazard zones are concerned, these hazard zones are defined in legislation for the various energy carriers. Accordingly, these hazard zones, hazards are assessed and accumulation hazard zones are identified. This is not an entrepreneur's decision, it is for the authorities to decide where they are. As far as I know, both in the South Port and in the North Port, all the activities of today are in accordance with the rules in force. That's why I don't see the problem. As far as dredging activities are concerned, their effects have been assessed in the environmental impact assessment, which is half a million. The duration of the work, if I remember correctly, is just under two weeks according to the construction offers. The nature of these works does not differ significantly in terms of volume or otherwise from those dredging works carried out at ports each year, including the Southern Port of Paldiski on a regular basis. In this sense, when it comes to volume, that is why this hoisting dock was even moved to 700 metres: to keep environmental disturbances to a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U110	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U111	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, good waitress, for this very clear and understandable presentation and answers. I have to admit, I'm still somewhat confused. Perhaps you can still explain to me how this plan you presented, which is on Alexela and Infortar, and which should provide a solution to our terminal question, how it interacts with the government's decision a few days ago, where they reported that Estonia and Finland will jointly resolve this problem? So what's the relationship between them now? Are these [plans] in any way consistent, or are these opposite movements? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U112	Thank you for your question. Then there are two of us who are a little confused about this. So far, they're still not really good. In the sense that we do not know about the fact that Estonia and Finland have a common floating terminal, although much. I found out about it, sitting in Houston with the leaders of one of these floating terminal owners, Accelerate Energy, at their headquarters. They took out an online news release there last Thursday about the fact that such a floating terminal is rented by Estonia and Finland. I can't answer that question. Maybe it's starting to relate if there's some discussion about whether this floating terminal could be the one that's coming to Paldiski's hazing dock. There have been no conversations on this issue, at least between us and, I presume, between the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U113	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U114	Thank you. When I listened to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications yesterday, his message was that Elering was given all rights and responsibilities. If you are now developing the subject of the previous questioner, what is happening in Estonia? Hasn't Elering been discussing this with you, as I understand it, at all? At the same time, all government debates have spoken about the port of Paldiski. It's clear today that the ability to build something by autumn is the only one you have. I am currently reading press reports that the Minister of Finance said that 200 million are planned to be allocated somewhere for the reception of gas supplies and LNG supplies. You still haven't been spoken to, and no guarantees have been given. Yesterday, you and two entrepreneurs agreed that we could still do this. This is indecisiveness, or what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U115	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to make it clear that it's not like we don't have any contact with Elering. Yes, it is. And communication will take place on behalf of or on the question of how the gas pipeline can be hauled from the Balticconnector compressor station by autumn. 700 metres under sea and a little less than 300 metres above ground. This discussion is inevitable because the pipe from the Balticconnector compressor station to the sea and this subsea pipe should be moving along our property. In this sea area too, thanks to the construction of a permanently connected facility, i.e. a quay, and the construction of this pipe, the right to build is ours. And we're discussing the conditions under which Elering would get a personal right of use for this pipe. The other part of the question concerned the floating terminal, the ship. In this regard, we have no communication, no debate, nothing happened. Well, that's why two private companies put their backs together, because on two we have the competence of shipping, LNG competence, and terminal construction and start-up competence. We felt that if we did not start in April, the [site] would not actually be ready for the next heating period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U116	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, thank you for this clear speech. Such talk is always a fresh breeze for us here in the Riigikogu. This triangle principle is certainly a question of sustainability. If you look at the long term after this ten-year contract, what is the possibility, or how does the construction of this potential terminal relate to biogas? And what is the possibility that we will actually be able to cover top loads in Estonia with green gas, which I think would be a vital development from a climate point of view? You have experience in this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U118	Thank you for your question. The connection is very direct. The link is that the same technology as the one that can cover peak loads with fossil LNG or natural gas will also be able to do so with biomethane and in a climate-neutral way. The possibility it offers is that, if there were long-term and stable gas supply, it would be possible to set up a controlled peak-load gas power plant to cover these peaks with fossil-based gas. And then, when enough biomethane is produced in Estonia, which is currently predominantly used in transport, but we all understand, as was the case with this first slide, that the aim should be to go to more efficient solutions in transport, which is an electric motor, then at one point, when biogas is no longer needed for decarbonisation of transport, it will be an excellent opportunity to cover climate-negatively, in terms of climate-neutrality or really the best academic knowledge today. Whether it's biomethane alone, biomethane with hydrogen, or biomethane with synthetic gases, that's what the future will show. But this will certainly happen at the earliest in the 2030s, before that, the time is not ripe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U119	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U120	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'd like to ask your advice. We can see how the great powers of Europe are trying to become independent of Russian gas. To do that, they've already launched their plans B and C, which means they've essentially stopped the herbal cords at the moment. Now, as members of the Riigikogu, we can prepare the people in this regard; it is important to us too. What would you suggest of former energy capabilities, bearing in mind that perhaps this transition or crisis that is, for example, will last three years, not longer? What's your recommendation we could introduce to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U121	Thank you. Yes, a good questioner very accurately pointed to this dilemma, which, I think, is in Europe. On the one hand, the climate targets should be maintained and, on the other, it should be said that Russian gas is replaced by Russian coal, because, as we have seen here in the previous report, the dependence on Russian coal in Europe is greater than the dependence on Russian gas. But it doesn't seem like a good plan, let's just say that. I think that in the Estonian context, it is still [the solution] to return to the wisdom of the peasant, that the old well should not be spat until the new well is ready and in use. In this sense, when we are talking about these oil shale blocks that are supposed to go under the current plan in 2024, my personal opinion is that their closure should be linked to the disengagement of alternative controlled production capacities. Perhaps, just as the taxonomy of the European Union basically does: if there is a new way of producing energy that is less polluting than it can be closed, then this transition is okay. But until it is created, it should still ensure that the top load is covered, hand in hand with solving it. As I showed here on one of the first slides, it's not like we could give up everything [the old one]. In fact, it still has a very expensive price if we increase our import dependency rather than reduce it. Our current energy balance [is this].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U122	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U123	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for really getting an excellent answer to my previous question. I therefore ask a more complex question. I really liked how you described these fundamental choices, whether to use old, familiar, secure technology or to speed up the grass. But if you look at the need to reduce energy consumption as a whole, what do you think it means? How can we do this in a way that is acceptable to society? Is it simply an improvement in the energy performance of buildings, just less movement, the use of [common] means of transport, less consumption? There is no need to be a politically correct or polished answer; I rather have such a fantasy question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U124	Thank you for your question. I think that the biggest bite is increasing the energy efficiency of buildings. And I mean, the biggest bite in that sense, it's the hardest to achieve. That's where to separate these few millions... I apologise for the incorrectness if I do not say all these building insulation allocations or programmes in terms of the budget, so to speak, but we are still talking about a few million in a short period, right, which is being applied relatively quickly and then waiting for the next round. But these volumes are appreciated here. Now, if I am right in my head, achieving energy efficiency will require an investment of 1.5 billion. The honest answer is that if we see that there is so much need to improve the efficiency of buildings in ten years, i.e. to achieve energy savings, and if the cost is 1.5 billion, the company will say that it is very simple, 1.5 billion must be distributed over 10 years, and if [some years] are below this section or one tenth of it, then there will have to be more next year. Otherwise, it can't be done. Another very important side, and I do not mean that everyone should come out of the state budget, is simply identifying this need. Just as the SEI report on the green turn said here: 17 billion comes together, 14 of which must be put by the private sector. But this private placement must somehow be amplified, so this initiative is not punishable but decorated. And what else I think is very important. We are talking here on a large scale about the housing fund. I think all kinds of industrial and commercial buildings, well there, let's say Money Talks and that other thing Walks, right? It, I think, solves itself. But I see the biggest concern actually in the housing fund, because I expect to expect an apology that I will now say this to the chairman of the Losnamäe panel building housing company to come and do it, and that is how we will expect all of these dwellings to do it. Somehow it is necessary to reverse this proactivity. Whether they are programme agents of some kind or just one word, someone has to go to the field and initiate it, not actively wait in the office for the head of the building management company to come and apply for it. Otherwise, you can't do it by the buildings. And as far as transport is concerned, I think there are two keys. It is easy to say that transport needs to be reduced, and that is the right thing to do. But how do you do that? The organisation of public transport, which best addresses today's needs, is, in my opinion, the key. But I see there's the biggest problem actually with spatial planning. If we don't understand how we plan in the planning document as the most important strategic document we plan some settlements or attraction centers or other things, [then the story is bad]. That's what determines later transport. Transport is not a matter for itself, it is necessary to get from point A to point B. Which means that the planning process is what determines its future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U125	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation. And, of course, you have to admit, it's still quite surprising that the government doesn't communicate on a daily basis with the builder of the most potential solution. But maybe they'll start communicating. I will continue to ask whether this planned solution, in the form of LNG terminal, will allow for the reception of liquefied hydrogen, provided that one day we will still have these sea wind parks in operation and we will also produce hydrogen during overproduction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U127	Thank you for your question. The short and concrete answer is yes, but perhaps only with this so-called future certainty in mind. For once again, in our opinion, even inside our house, fossil LNG imports are believed to be a short-term bridge from today's crisis situation to a situation where it is not needed at all. How long is this bridge? I think it depends on all the factors we talked about here. I think it's definitely between 10 and 15 years, because these things just don't happen any faster. This is not a matter of itself, but this terminal is intended to enable this infrastructure to be used for this after the transition to a renewable gas, such as hydrogen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U128	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U129	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress! With regard to the LNG terminal, you yourself mentioned this trillemma. As far as security is concerned, that is clear. As far as affordability is concerned, we can see that there are solutions here. But as far as the environment is concerned, there is an immediate question about this issue. In a very short time frame, it tends to be a question of what we do for our environment. Do we know what we're doing? How do you see how to find compromises on this particular project?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U130	Thank you for your question. I think this is one of the strengths of this project, specifically the Paldiski LNG terminal, that the environmental aspects, risks and effects have been analysed since... I think I am not wrong to say that the first planning procedure and the strategic assessment of environmental impacts were launched in 2010. When it was completed, the environmental impact assessment continued in relation to the detailed plan. So here, two environmental impact assessments have been made for this one site, let alone, I think, 40 positions, analyses, studies up to the monitoring points that were carried out to confirm the results of these KMHs and KSHs after that. In this sense, I would dare to make such an expression that, in my opinion, an energy project with an environmental impact that has been so studied [sometimes there are no others]. In addition to being examined by experts, experts went through the trial until the Supreme Court and received judicial review. Now, as far as its implementation and its effects are concerned, monitoring and monitoring obligations are set out in these studies. I am not myself an expert at reading them all here, but for this there are specific people whose sole responsibility for such projects is to monitor them. In other words, I would dare say from this platform that there will be no known compromises within the deadline of this project. But life is full of unexpected events, isn't it? What happens during what is so-called work, I do not dare to say today, but just as in life, when extraordinary circumstances arise, they must be dealt with and, if necessary, something must be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U131	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U132	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable waitress! I believe that what reduces consumption most quickly is still money and, on the other hand, the same security situation. However, as we can see, it needs to be very painful before decisions are made. This third leg, the environment, it seems to me, is not yet topical enough, especially for us here in Estonia, unfortunately. That's what we're trying to change together. Thank you for your work in the Green Tiger. 400 million is the amount of heat coming up. That's a pretty big and important amount. In planning, indeed, we do not yet understand as a country that this means precisely the impact in terms of money, human health, the environment. But maybe we can get there. But now the question. There are urgent things now, but it is just as important that the same energy roadmap, the development plan for the energy economy, is also established by the state. We look forward to bringing it to Taavi Aas or the next minister. Are you involved in this work in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U133	ENMAK 2035 [compilation] is a completely public process and it is possible for everyone to participate. But in my understanding, this process is still very, very early in the day. Since I was involved in the preparation of the previous ENMAK, I imagine it will take years to come before the result comes. But decisions need to be made today. I'd say on top of this one remark, maybe it sounds kind of cynical, I don't mean it like that at all, that I think the fact that we've all been shocked by the energy price is actually a good thing in the context of a green turn. This led us to think about what the solutions would be that would prevent this in the future. Otherwise, we only talked about it, but there were fewer acts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U134	We can be a little more flexible with OTRK. So I have a request that if we agree, let's ask another question. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for giving me a chance!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U136	No one protested, so please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U137	Here's the question. I'd still like to come to this LNG issue. Indeed, in the last week or in the last few weeks, this has been very topical and, as has clearly been the case, the state's position has changed over time. Indeed, if perhaps not much attention was paid to this in the previous period, then now the country wants to pay attention to it. My question is, in fact, driven by the fact that we met with the Minister for Economic Affairs in our political group yesterday and asked him whether any negotiations had taken place, whether negotiations had been concluded, I do not know, started or something like that. Well, here's what I'm saying. That answer was rather shaky. The group tried to understand the potential role of the state in the future on LNG. On the one hand, we sanction Russian gas, but somewhere the state must either compensate, guarantee, support anything. As a result, maybe you can describe in a few words how far you are now with this thing and where should we get to?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U138	Thank you. To understand this role, we are at about the same beginning. I understand the unsavory position of the Minister for Economic Affairs, I am just as unsavory in answering this question, because I do not fully understand it. Maybe I'd describe it in a way that I think we're going through some kind of test on the fast track right now. For years we have been trying to achieve [achievement] the liberalisation of the energy economy and the free market, and all that. But all the time, these spikes go through that maybe state capitalism is better than free market and private capital and market players. I think that here is actually the same question as to whether there is trust in whether the state, the Estonian state, trusts in making important private capital, such as energy investments. I fully agree that we have been working on this for 12 years, and until last week or the week before, it was said that the Paldiski LNG terminal is Alexela's private matter, and no one else cares. And now, in two weeks, it's changed to 180 degrees. That's it. And I guess in this situation, we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation. Thank you for your answers. Thank you. So, good fellows, we continue to be at the heart of the debate on the crucial national issue of the 'Energy crisis to the electric shock', initiated by the Isamaa Group. We have reached a round of negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. The initiator has foreseen that members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. So, good fellows, you can all perform. However, the initiator of the debate has proposed that there should be a first presentation by the political groups. I now ask Kristen Michal, representative of the Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. A little extra time? Yes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U140	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests, viewers, hearers! By way of introduction, I hope I'm allowed a little black humour. I thank the waitresses that they didn't mind us listening to that report in the room. But this is the internal humor of the Riigikogu and will become topical sometime in the future. First, I listened to Mr Aivar Koka's presentation. My colleague will certainly do this in a sincere and willful manner with better solutions for the future. I certainly congratulate him and my colleagues on raising this issue and selecting good rapporteurs. But this report reminded me that one day Juhan Liiv has written a poem that begins with the words that the black ceiling is on our room. Today's position in organising this is still that things are not moving, that the government is doing nothing, but everyone knows what to do. It reminds me of the same [talk] as when the bronze soldier was taken to the military cemetery, everyone said that, of course, he should have been taken away 15 years ago. There is a debate about education in Estonian and everyone knows that it has to start in kindergarten, and when the government finally does it, it is said that [a long time] should have done it. But I'll come back to today when I listened to the criticism Aivar Kokk made about the wind farms on land. I read an interview yesterday by an entrepreneur in this field, where he said very clearly when borrowing one of the expressions that the largest brakes in the field are probably to be found in Aivar's meetings. Today it has been agreed that the interests of national defence will be protected by the necessary investments and will free up land and sea for windmill parks. Aivar also mentioned the business-to-business dispute. Here, I think, he's a hundred percent right. It's been a very foolish story, but it's been solved today. Now we're coming to the Russian gas. Here I would whistle up a game where Isamaa constructs such a political technological message that if the government does not ban Russian gas, entrepreneurs will not behave responsibly. I think they are. Secondly, the ban is, as is known in the economic sphere, always the smallest and easiest, the lowest hanging [measure]. In my opinion, it is important to move forward with this and Marti Vääl also mentioned that Estonia and our neighbours, Finland and the Baltic States, would have a new well if we borrowed the saying of the old people when we shut the old one down. And I don't think anyone in Estonia is questioning the fact that the old one has to be arrested. The Russian Federation, the Putin clan, must take away all this emerging export cash flow and the faster the stronger the better. There is, I think, no debate in Estonia. The most important, fundamental value decision has been made in Estonia in my opinion. Russian gas is replaced by other sources. And the establishment of LNG reception capabilities is inevitable. Marko Allikson's description of a half-full or half-empty storage facility, along with the needs of the countries, was, in my opinion, a nice description of what needs to be met. Now, in this same presentation and in Marko Allikson slides, the same message is that, in view of all this era, schedule, infrastructure, network arrival and so on, Estonia's agreements with Finland on joint procurement and on the establishment of vessel reception capacity are at an objective [inborn] very good pace. I think it really is. And I think that every step on this path, so to speak, sends a clear message that Russian gas is no longer being used around here. Because what is temporary today and inevitably temporary, because it is faster, will become a permanent form by private business after a temporary solution. Here, I think the message from Marti's Voice that there is a expectation of certainty and clarity about the future, certainly does not sound to deaf ears. And that's what all decision-makers need to hear and think about. Now I'm going to go over a little bit more important. Defence investments will free large areas of wind farms. There is no need to create illusions, that is to say, new debates, for example, about the local benefits of coping with the disturbance. They won't miss. Yesterday, we adopted a bill 430, in this hall, which gives a great boost to the construction of sea wind parks. Annely Akkermann, who is sitting right here, carried this bill carefully and did important work. Now the ball is in the government's hands to accept the maritime plan. But giving up Russian gas is a value decision, a signal and a message. I cannot imagine the government or the Minister for Economic Affairs who has said A and who has not said B.Crisis's effects on energy could certainly be presented separately, a seminar or any event. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, as Members know, we deal with these issues and new solutions every week. At the same time, the crisis, as we know, is also an opportunity for change. For example, the increase in the price of wood chips biomass, as described in these drawings, and as the waiters said in their answers to questions, has led to an increase in the cost of heating a decent home in Tallinn, my home town. And it has to be said that the potential for this price increase has not yet been exhausted. This means that new solutions are needed. In the case of the capital, the energy forums have been offered the idea of heating in the future, perhaps cooling Tallinn, as is done in Helsinki and Stockholm, on the basis of the heat of seawater and waste water. This new direction would certainly be more affordable for consumers and more friendly to nature. Such new solutions should also be put on the table of politicians' regulators and considered. In the summer-Autumn, there will certainly be a debate on the nuclear power plant: what it costs, whether it is profitable, how many generations the station can, not to mention the location of what the state needs to do for the supervision of researchers. There is undoubtedly an enormous ability to polarise society when it is done on the basis of slogans, not analyses. As Marti's Voice described, energy is a large and interdependent system. My suggestion would be to develop, not excitingly, but knowledge-based energy. Knowledge-experiences, wisdom are numerous in both the public and private sectors. Today's presentations, as has already been mentioned, were, in my opinion, of high quality. It was a meaningful hearing. Estonia does not live in a vacuum, and bigger decision-making plans can still be able to become more effective with its neighbours by making rules and being at the table of decision-makers in the European Union. This is the role of politicians. All pieces and parts have a role to play in energy: informed consumption, its management for change, savings at private and public level, smart planning for the energy use of future buildings, increased use of renewable energy, generation of storage capacity, security of supply, capacity to cover the peak load of base capacity, technologies for the production of room heat and so on. A page could be written from any such keyword. And all of this can be viewed on the verge of affordability.Refundability. In terms of recovery, by the way, I certainly agree with Marti's voice that this crisis will give it a boost rather than a brake. So, in conclusion, I thank you for this debate. I think this debate will not stop, it will not stop. This is neither the starting point nor the end point. We have very good opportunities and opportunities to make knowledge-based, high-quality decisions for the future of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U141	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Sven Sester. Please! [[Sven Sester wants more time.]] Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U142	Let's see how it's gonna turn out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U143	Let's see how it's gonna turn out. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U144	First of all, I would like to thank the President for giving me the opportunity to ask one last question, which was already outside the prescribed time. A few thoughts on our subject today that we have discussed here. I would also like to begin by thanking all the waitresses. I also think that there was, as the previous speaker said, a substantive debate. A little Kristen Michal did, somehow it was interesting, in the meantime paid more attention to the Fatherland in his speech. I didn't understand why, but let it be. I am trying not to pay attention to the Reform Party, but rather to energy issues. Some things I'd like to talk about today. First of all, first of all, issues relating to manageable and unmanageable energy sources. On the one hand, we are making efforts today [in the area of wind and sun, I think, very sensible, and true, after all, the Committee on Economic Affairs has just dealt with the draft, which gives the opportunity to start planning sea wind parks much more accurately. We had some problems with this procedure when we looked at the Fatherland, but the sum is on the right track. And if you look at the introduction of solar panels in Estonia, we see it in a very clear upward trend. What concerns us is that we are creating a situation where we are basically digging up one road before we have paved the way for a new road. We have said before, and we want to say from this speaker, too, that the true story, we do not have an alternative, especially given the objectives of the green turn in the climate context, but there is something in Estonia that does not exist in very many countries, and that is basically oil shale. As a result, we have technology, knowledge and skills. We certainly have believed that, as we move towards climate goals, we cannot and do not make sense to stop producing energy quickly from today's resource that we have. But, of course, in the current context, we should deal with this in accordance with the framework laid down by law and also with agreements at European level. I'll stop once on biomethane, not for a long time, but still. We can see that the whole bio theme should be a priority in the country [developed] with increased activity. Paying this attention may also in the future involve certain advantages or State measures to ensure that private operators primarily focus their attention on this. I'm sure our party would support that. There was not much talk on this subject today, but certainly the thing the country should think about in the future is [there are ointment technologies]. And once again, the question is how to do this, whether to go down with private companies or to give some kind of signal. I think the whole world is starting to think more and more, especially when it comes to renewable energies, how to store and later consume energy. Many things that have been unthinkable at one point have become cheaper at one point. Technologies are evolving. I think that this is a place for me, as a Member of Parliament, and a representative of my party, to say this, which the state could certainly pay more attention to. Recording technologies are a direction in which the state must not close its eyes. I would like to finish my speech on this subject, which we have talked about very much here today. It's Russian gas. True story, if you look back at the situation that was a month ago, it was the country's view and not just Estonia, but I think that Europe as a whole was also dependent and still dependent on Russian gas. And the different decisions made at political level, mainly in Europe, cannot be said that only Estonia would have been part of it; rather, this dependence increased. Looking at Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, which now, I understand, is stuck, but in their case, there was a clear political trend in Estonia during some periods of time, too, against it, that, hiddenly but firmly, Russian gas consumption was set as a goal for a very large number of countries. Unfortunately, it has also been so in Estonia that we have depended on Russian gas for a very large percentage. Now things have changed. It has now been realised that, in fact, by purchasing Russian gas, we are basically supporting the Russian country from buying tanks to supporting military personnel. Here, I think, the Estonian state could and should have a clear decisive role to play in closing this transaction. The Estonian state does not actually buy any molecules itself. I think it should be a clear decision on the part of the state that we simply do not say it as political rhetoric, as it has been so far, and adding that private operators should be ethical and stop buying Russian gas. The Estonian state should state clearly that this is unacceptable, and therefore, and of course, as a result of sanctions, the Estonian state should take new positions. If you have once said A, then you will also have to take steps towards B and C [target]. And I still don't think the A's are clear. Rather, it has been said that it is unethical for local companies to buy [Russian gas] in the future. It's a little like the government's demanding recommendation to wear a mask during the COVID. What is that? Is this an obligation or is it not an obligation? A demanding suggestion is a bit of a misunderstanding. And from this point of view, when the Estonian state is making this clear, we should make the maximum effort to do so in cooperation with Latvia and Finland. However, our vision is also that if this cooperation does not come immediately or is not reacted so quickly... I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U145	But you've had a long time, too. I was looking at this thing going so smoothly...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U146	Got it! [[Laughing.]] I'm sorry! Then I have to... I'm sorry! (Elevity in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.) I'll get my mind together. Got it! We see that the Estonian state should actually make clear substantive decisions today, if necessary on its own. And as a result of these decisions, clear steps should also be taken towards A and B. Our vision is that the country has a role to play here and that it should play this role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U147	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U148	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U149	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U150	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests you've shown us! Thank you very much indeed for the much-needed debate in this moment. Experts and practitioners gave a much needed overview. And I must also thank the Isamaa Group for raising this debate. Unfortunately, Aivar Kokk has gone out now, but I would like to thank him for the fact that, as time goes by, the views he apparently expressed on behalf of the group show that the Fatherland is very capable of learning in energy policy. Some of the positions that we have been debating for years have now changed in this direction, which, I think, is essential for the sustainability and security of our environment and energy and for reasonable prices. In this context, we have clear objectives. The war must be won. Our people and businesses must survive and have the opportunity to develop. The planet must be saved. In other words, using the political pulpit: energy independence, affordable prices and grassroots must be our goals. Without renewable energy sources and significantly more ambitiously contributing to them, not constantly challenging them, it is not possible to imagine this, however, because wind energy, solar energy and geothermal energy are all zero variable costs. We were once again proved that today. It is the cheapest, and clearly also important, security tool to balance our energy balance. Of course, balancing capacity must be added to it. The gas terminal, which has been thoroughly discussed today, is also important for this, as well as hydro-pumping stations, batteries and hydrogens must also contribute to the development of these [technologies]. The state must play an active and motivating role, but as far as possible, of course, allow the private sector to invest in these matters. There was a very thorough discussion of the gas terminal today, and I asked Marti Lääne about the environmental issue [in conjunction with this], and we do not have to compromise too much there. I would also like to confirm that the questions that the Postman is raising today concerning nature conservation and, for example, the spawning areas of birds or the spawning grounds, I am sorry! just that, when it comes to nesting areas for birds, there will indeed be compensation mechanisms, which this very rapid process, which we now expect for security reasons, will lead to. I am not convinced by the official's answer that all environmental studies have actually been carried out, because I understand that environmental studies do not specifically concern the solutions that have been taken today. We need to understand that every time someone says that nuclear energy, however, is not a solution that will save us from the perspective of the coming years. Even in the most optimistic case, one small container can be launched in Estonia in 2033. Keeping this perspective behind our ears or discussing it with the Finns is, of course, reasonable, but this is not a solution for us in the coming years. And, of course, [is the target] for the transition of the transport sector to electricity, biogas, hydrogen. But certainly [help] the sustainable mobility solutions that we create when planning our environment so as not to make those trips that do not need to be done, or not to produce and buy those cars and [other] means of transport that are not needed. It is also possible to save money by means of public transport and other sustainable smart transport solutions. There is an important sentence that I would like to draw down from Marko Allikson's presentation and which we could write on the wall in a burning letter in this Chamber, recalling the debates a few months ago. Marko Allikson's report contained a sentence: if the price had a ceiling, electricity would simply not be produced in today's context. Yes, friends on the right: if there was a ceiling at the price, electricity would simply not be produced. Please remember this next time you come up with proposals on how to set the price caps in the market economy space where we operate. You could learn from that too. But as I said, I am glad that our discussion is increasingly moving in the direction it needs to go. I hope that, now that we have to make a very large choice of principle, yes, these choices have been before us over the years, we have often made a step forward, then, in the meantime, two steps back, [by lowering] technological choices [in the field of energy], we now realise that this is a very fundamental choice. One of my professors once said that we have a bifurcation point ahead of us: if we make the wrong choice here, there will be no turning back. We place ourselves in a very high energy dependency and do a great deal of damage to our environment, and all this is very expensive and not affordable at all. These choices must be wise. I hope that, just as the Fatherland has been able to learn, the Government of the Republic, whose latest solutions in energy have been, will learn that we will drive more trees into the oven. Today we have proof of this once again, and we will see it again and again in the near future, through the fact that we are going to pay dearly for it. This is not a wise choice, not to mention that it is also a very anti-natural and hostile choice of the Estonian forest. As I said, renewable energy is the cheapest because it does not have a variable cost. But the cheapest is the energy we haven't spent. Let us make our choices wisely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U151	I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U152	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate was very relevant, and precisely in time. We were actually talking about... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Nice bell, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U153	That's why I called that bell. It's a little loud in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U154	Yeah, yeah, gentlemen of the initiators have more important stories to tell. But I can wait till then.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U156	Thank you. Marko Allikson's story was what a sober man says about how things really are for a long time. And this picture is not pleasant at all. The possibility of resolving price problems in the issuing market is negligible. Remember the discussions on the CO2 quota where the Minister for Economic Affairs has said that things are already going on? But it's unlikely! The regulation of the local price of renewable energy [tolerating production], the local wood chips are rapidly increasing due to increased demand, the rapid replacement of gas is difficult, the development of the Estonian electric car market is very modest compared to the Nordic countries and so on and so forth. So Marko Allikson's presentation was the most important and sobering, so-called sober talk of today. These green stories about the green turn and the triple turn all this is such a beautiful sales story. But reality is harsh. And actually today's story was that the first two waitresses were like warm-up bands. And then the Voice of Heiti came from Alexela with a project that has been spent a long time on which Hendrikson has carried out an analysis of environmental research. A mile long quay and 365 metres long, so to speak, the end of the quay at which these LNG tankers will be located. And besides, there had to be a 300-meter wavebreaker dam, though temporary, so that I could build a quay like that. Well, now the current option has gone like this, you could say, an option of savings. As this long 12 metres wide bridge does not come, only a small one, 25 times 50 metres, such a floating or, rather, not floating, but a small island at a height of 7 metres above the surface of the steel pipes, to which these LNG vessels will come into the mouth of the Gulf of Laheperé. The Gulf of the Gulf is known to be the most famous summer resort in Estonia and the Gulf of Kloogaranna. If you look at the map, it means half of Bay Family's mouth is shut down. I'm not gonna talk about fishing opportunities and everything. And I'm not gonna talk about the chrysalis either. These are the little penguin-like birds that live in the only place near the Cape of Pakri, right near that pier. It's kind of inappropriate to talk about it right now. But it happens that there are very large Natura sites, very rich nature. But in this case, it seems inappropriate to talk about some kind of nature conservation and some kind of chrysalis when it comes to unhooking Russian gas and our energy future. In this respect, yes, the speed is wild: by 1 November, the first tanker will have to arrive there by now, and then every month, two. But given this presentation by Marko Allikson, we don't have a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U157	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U158	Yeah, I'd like three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U159	Yeah, please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U160	In fact, our hope is like that of the Prophet Maltsvet on the white ship that comes must come November 1st. But the funny thing is, I've got some letters and I've been talking to the heads of the Port of Paldiski today. It is strange that they have been addressing the Minister of Economic Affairs and Elering's leaders a long time ago by having a quay over 300 metres long, which could be used immediately. And they even have a ship. The name of the LNG vessel is Bilbao Knutsen, 284 metres long. I looked, he's on the coast of Argentina right now, but there are agreements that will allow it to be used immediately. And since there is little time, the Northern Port leaders think I spoke to them today, it would actually take about three kilometers of this pipe to the Alexela terminal, and it would be solved. But, unfortunately, it has not been taken into account at all. And now there's an interesting thing I'd like you to meet. On 17 March, the management of the Northern Port sent a letter to the Minister for Economic Affairs. On 30 March, the Government made a decision for the State, leaving aside a virtually free option for the State. There's only Alexela's version. And the most interesting thing is that the Northern Port offer has not even been put in the drawer, but it is not even found in the incoming letters. Even the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications record doesn't have that letter, it's basically lost. This minister is probably sitting in Asa's melbox. In fact, such a free alternative offer was simply lost. But the fact is that on 2 March 2021, last year, a year ago, such an offer existed on the table of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. And it's also in the document register, of course, equipped with an AK seal. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Affairs cannot say in any way that this information came to them at the last minute, well, this year on 17 March. So let's think about it. Yeah, Heiti Voice here said it's such a dangerous activity that we should evacuate the Paldiski school if the tanker came to the existing dock at the Northern Port. Yeah, maybe that's the way it is, but I'll remind you that when I used to go to Paldiski military with the Commanders of the Defence Forces, I saw that there were large Alexela tanks at its gate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But as I heard today, everything is in accordance with the law. But the only one... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yes, thank you! The only thing we have is to hope for a white ship now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U161	Good waitress, your time. Thank you. Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu. Is there an extra time? Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable four Members who are able to deal with Estonia's energy issues! The question now is that, first of all, Aivar Koka has received recognition for preparing the debate on a good matter of national importance. The main issue now 15% is currently inflation, annual inflation is 12.7% according to the Ministry of Finance estimates. In view of the nominal wage increase, this means that, with the help of government inaction, real income will be at least 5% lower for the average person whose salary will also increase nominally as forecast. What do we have to do? We already proposed a solution last autumn, which would have been a reduction in the value added tax (VAT) for energy carriers. This would have meant at least 1.5% inflation control. It was voted down by the government coalition. We have proposed that excise duty on fuels be minimised in Europe. They are precisely what really affects inflation. Tax reductions are the most effective means used by European countries. Estonia has done nothing. Instead, jokes are made, but there is a debate on the additional mythological budget. And when people have lost their real income exponentially, it is said that we are going to make a small one-off payment, which is EUR 100, so it is in the paper that is being applied for it. I think it's a real failure and a hypocritical doctrine. Second, Russian gas. Mr Michal said here that if the Fatherland demands that we impose a war sanction to ban Russian gas, this should not be done. And whether we don't trust companies to operate autonomously on the market and make these choices. The practical situation is that the President of Ukraine, Zelenskiy, thanked us for having stopped using Russian gas. Unfortunately, we still have to redeem this praise, which is not true. We have Russian gas coming through Finland right now. And, in fact, as far as the acquisition of gas supplies is concerned, in the meeting of the Budget Control Committee on Monday, there was nothing to say about the views of the companies invited there, or to understand that it is accepted that we will also obtain the national gas supply only from gas sources that do not come from Russian gas. In this very chair, the expert confirmed that it would be very difficult in this case. But that decision has to be made. It's a moral measure of pressure for our allies, and we can't escape it. Question two. One thing is the imposition of a war sanction; the other is the need to set an irreversible deadline for the use of Russian gas. The government has not done so, but it is also necessary for the security of the investment environment, and this [decision] must be taken immediately. The previous speaker, Indrek Saar, spoke about the setting of the electricity price ceiling and referred to the initiative of the Isamaa concerning the possibility for household electricity customers [to use the off-exchange package]. I can safely say that if the government had already taken this step, inflation in Estonia, I think, would be several percent lower in size, or real inflationary pressure. This was not considered necessary. This would be in line with European Union law, which would be applicable without stretching. And I would remind the previous speaker that he is not familiar with the European Commission's communication in which the European Commission put forward a package of various measures that it makes sense for countries to consider. The first notification came in autumn, the second in March. So this is fully in line with the principles of the European Commission's communication. This superinflation, which we are raging in Estonia, is at least one third of the political steps taken by the state. Nobody's talking about a state price for electricity. We have stressed that the electricity market reform that we are proposing will, of course, provide for a reasonable profit in the price of generation-based electricity, where the cost of CO2 units will be reimbursed to the OTC package. And it should be done without delay. Countries are operating, countries are taking vigorous steps to protect their consumers, but we have not taken any steps to control crazy inflation. On the contrary, the government's position was when we adopted the budget... Read the speeches that were in the adoption of the budget. I repeatedly warned the government that you were wrong about inflation, that anti-inflationary measures must be in the budget. I was told it was a panic. Mr Ligi, who is anywhere, said that inflation is exponential, very short-term, inflation is actually at a low level in a large way. Check it out. He made these statements when he was on TV. And now, to sum up: inflation from energy sources [to contain] must be acted without stretching. We're losing reality now, we're worsening our economic environment, we're losing people's livelihoods. In order to give up Russian gas, war sanctions must be imposed immediately in our gas sales area and, obviously, the final date for Russian gas [for use] must be lowered. A reform of the electricity market needs to be carried out. And, obviously, we also have to, if LNG is to be introduced, is one thing that has not been discussed, and that is the impact on consumers, industrial consumers, households. We need an analysis of the government's view that consumers will not be shocked when switching to LNG. Measures to mitigate this, such shock absorbers, must be provided for. It has never been put on the table in this debate and by the government. So a lot of things are incomplete, in the air or furnished only with declarative rhetoric. There is a crisis: we have an inflation crisis, we have a war. And this requires that, in a crisis situation, we are judgmental and able to act, capable of realising the political will that comes from a changed environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U163	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner and immediately ask: would you like an extra time? Yeah, let's do it right now, three more minutes, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yeah, well, I'm not gonna be an introduction to the Sats who praised the Fatherland for its learning ability. But I'm sad that the Socats have been unable to learn an ounce. Indeed, if the lessons of nature education were missed, at least during the time you were in the Riigikogu, you could have taken a few evenings and made the nature education of basic school clear [after all]. I think it would, in any case, be useful for the whole of the Soccer Group. The electricity market is actually influenced by different factors, a set of complex measures. If we take one out of there, we need to think now about how we're gonna replace something. And now we really should look at that Russian gas. A few or three months ago, they tried to paint this bloody Russian gas green and very environmentally friendly and say that our renewable energy source was definitely worse than Russian gas. "Well, for heaven's sake!" I'd like to say here. We have 30 million cubic metres of gray picks, and basically, in 25 to 30 years, the gray leaf can mature and bind all of its CO2 that really flies to the sky when it burns. Let me remind you that it will take millions of years to obtain natural gas. Is there a small difference: one hundred million and 25 to 30 years? The Sots think there'll be an end in 30 years. If we make any decisions, we must also think about saving the planet so that we do not sacrifice the Estonian people. Our task is above all to stand up for the preservation and well-being of the Estonian people. Of course, this does not mean that we should somehow run over environmental values numbly. But again, it was questioned whether all environmental impacts have been assessed and maybe it should take another two years before we start building our LNG terminal, we should reconsider once more. I have a rhetorical question: did Russia carry out an environmental impact assessment when it invaded Ukraine, bombed these cities, destroyed them, killed people? With one Russian missile attack, Estonia's gas supply for several years was blown to the sky. And that wasn't a problem? We need to understand a little bit about what the scales are and what we've been invited here for. And now, actually, the price of electricity. I very much believe that there are many solutions here too. Thank God we didn't listen to the forces who said that our oil shale energy should be retiring. Today, this oil shale energy will help us in the transition to renewable energy sources, help the Estonian people to survive, figuratively speaking, during their investments. Of course, investments must be made in wind farms. Both sea and land wind farms must be developed vigorously, solar energy must be developed, and how we use our timber effectively must be considered. But, good friends, it's gonna take us all the time we're going to be working hard today for a minimum of two, three, four or five years. Even this time, our rooms must be warm. That time, too, has to burn electricity in the ceiling. Even then, we need electricity. And we really need to think not about the propaganda revolution, but about how the Estonian people will survive these times. Indeed, I agree that our hands will be short to decouple CO2 from the quota. I regret that we have not taken any steps to raise this issue in the European Union so far. We have not taken the lead in discussing this issue. And I am very sorry that the government has not discussed the issue of our electricity exchange, where indeed the most expensive price determines the daily or hourly price of all energy. And if we have gone like this, there will be no alternative left than to offer home customers the opportunity to make a fixed price [contracts] with Eesti Energia for at least the time of transition, to buy electricity at a price where the price of the CO2 quota will go down to a considerable extent, with perhaps 25 to 30 euros per tonne. These are, in fact, issues that we must take into account in any case when we are talking about the energy market and the shock of energy prices. And now again to the sanctions. The good previous speaker, Urmas Reinsalu, opened [the subject] here. Really, we have said in a slogan again that we have given up Russian gas. I haven't given up! But we could do that on a daily basis. There is no problem with its implementation. All of this is that there are some molecules out there that we can't control is one big fog. If Estonia wanted to take the lead in solving this problem, it could do so tomorrow. Of course, we need to think about how to compensate for it. And, indeed, I admit, this is a problem for households and also for companies that use gas. The state must come to their aid here, there is no doubt about that. It is also possible to increase, if the country wishes, the use of wood in our boiler houses. And today, the good sofas, once again to your conclusion: today, the wood, which has become twice as expensive, is three-four-five times cheaper than gas. So if we want to solve the problem, we have to think complexly. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In fact, we have all these opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-14_U165	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I would like to thank the Isamaa Group very much for this initiative, for the crucial national issue of the energy crisis to the electric shock. I also thank all the rapporteurs: member of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokka, member of the board of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ Marko Allikson and chairman of the board of the Alexela Group Marti Väähe. And I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who took part in this important debate. That concludes the item. Good fellows! Tomorrow is a big Friday, which is a day of suffering, so a quiet big Friday! The sitting is adjourned.
