ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or requests to the Riigikogu. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of seven Social Democrats, I will present an inquiry into the debt owed by the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimpus. A credit market survey conducted in March at the request of the Ministry of Finance revealed that the number of consumer loans has doubled since 2016. In addition, a wide range of fast-lending companies have entered the market, offering short-term loans at high interest rates and generating more people in default. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's a lot of confusion about debt recovery. Many fast-lending companies sell sour loans to collection companies that pluck debtors with huge procedural costs and interest. There are no rare cases where debts that are already outdated or previously paid by a person are collected. The occasional illegal activity of collection companies has helped to push people into debt slavery. The Social Democrats ask the Minister of Finance whether he has any proposals to organise the activities of fast-lending companies, including the introduction of additional advertising restrictions on them. When and how does he intend to regulate the activities of the collection companies? Is and how should the availability of debt counselling services be increased and people's financial literacy improved? A whole third of debtors have five or more debts in stone form and the average debt amount is 10129 euros. The debtors of the enforcement proceedings are 72297. Of these, 73% are men and 27% are women and the average age of the debtor is 42.7 years. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The study of the credit market of the University of Tartu's Centre for Social Science Applied Research revealed this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U3	Good waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U4	Thank you. We expect an answer from our Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U5	And how do you hand it over? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U6	Is that the right paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U7	I don't know. You threw it here, I have to look. It's never been like this before. [[Heljo Pikhof apologizes.]] Understood. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U8	I have two things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U9	Then you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have the honour to transfer the draft decision appointing a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a renowned expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. But that's not all that is. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to make an inquiry on behalf of 16 members of the Riigikogu concerning the government's activities in relation to the objectives and objectives of Estonia's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035." It is the government's duty to update this action plan once a year in April and to present an overview of the progress towards agreed long-term goals for the strategy and the maintenance of fundamental principles. The maintenance of basic principles is monitored by a series of metrics, the most important of which are the coefficient of cohort, the population, including the proportion of people living outside Harjumaa and Tartumaa, and the proportion of people speaking and using Estonian as their native language. According to the draft report of the Government, which has already been coordinated by eight ministries, including the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible for population policy, Estonia's cohort coefficient and population, including the proportion of people living outside Harju County and Tartu County, have moved in the opposite direction to the goals set in the strategy in 2021. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Moreover, the survey does not reflect at all the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue, which is known to be an important measure of fundamental principles. In this regard, we have a number of questions. The main thing is whether the government has abandoned the aim of the strategy to increase the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U11	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give two draft decisions of the Riigikogu concerning the amendment of the composition of our two parliamentary delegations, the international delegation, to the proceedings by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. They concern the ENPA delegation and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation. The changes are due to the proposals made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. They're transmitted digitally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U13	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U14	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching seven draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Health Services Organisation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection when processing this bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Thirdly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. Fourthly, the draft law on the additional budget of the State in 2022. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance when these three aforementioned draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Population Register Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. And seventhly, the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research. All seven drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U15	Thank you. Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted ten drafts and two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U16	88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Good fellows! We must also bring before you a vote of disagreement between one of the members of the Bureau. I'll explain. In fact, the Board of the Riigikogu did not reach a consensus on the issue of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to withdraw the signature of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation signed on 18.02.2014" submitted by the Conservative People's Party Group on the first item of the Tuesday session. It requires a majority of its component parts to be adopted. The member of the Bureau, Martin Helme, disagreed and found that this draft needed a majority in favour of adoption. As we did not find consensus in the Management Board, Martin Helme, member of the Management Board, wishes to put this question to a vote outside the agenda in Riigikogu plenary, in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. If I put it to a vote, I will put the following question to the vote. This is for information at present: 'I propose that the words in brackets 'Voting of the composition of the Riigikogu' be deleted from the first item on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting. Please take a stand and vote!" Martin Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U17	Thank you, good speaker! I'd rather have a procedural comment here. For many years, we have had such an understanding in the Riigikogu that the draft decision [in the case of a proposal to the government, which is the subject of the proposal] will require 51 votes to be adopted, without exception. Now, for about the last six months, there has been serious controversy and the Board of the Riigikogu, together with the political groups and committees, has tried to find a reasonable solution to how to resolve this dispute. It is considered that if the draft decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" does not require a change of law and does not entail budgetary costs, there is no 51 vote requirement. Since there are neither amendments to the law nor budgetary obligations in this particular draft 540 OE, that is why this dispute arose. I'm just here to help my colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U18	Yeah. Let me also briefly answer your procedural question. You are right, we have really discussed this in the last half of the year in various forms, both on the Board of the Riigikogu and in the Council of Elders. This has certainly been discussed by the previous Riigikogu Boards. We really have had a desire to take legal assessments on this. Our opinion has been that the final decision, whether [the adoption of the draft] requires or does not require 51 votes, must be taken by the commission. In this case, we are talking about the lead committee as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, at its committee meeting, has believed that 540 OE is calling for a majority in composition. Let's move on from here. There are more procedural questions, and they must certainly be asked here so that the questions can be answered. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Taking into account Mart...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U20	I'm sorry, Kalle Grünthal! There's really too much noise in the hall. I have a request that we honor those who ask questions and honor those who want to listen. There's noise in every row of the hall, I'm asking for silence. But don't go too far, because soon we'll be able to solve [the problem] and then we'll definitely be able to move on to processing. Please, Mr. Grünthal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U21	Thank you, Mr President. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In view of the fact that Mr Helme has just explained, this practice of majority voting in the composition, I believe that pushing this issue into the competence of the Committee on Foreign Affairs does not correspond to what the Riigikogu itself should actually decide. I would say that this is another clever move to reject responsibility from the Riigikogu's plenary. However, under normal law, which is what we have implemented so far, it could not be possible for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to decide on this issue. And according to custom, it is not possible to decide either by a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. I am now interested in what standard you think the Committee on Foreign Affairs will decide on this issue. I mean the norms of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U22	Thank you. We rely on it, as I said earlier, that we have discussed this [question] in various forms, whether this [draft] requires a majority or a majority vote in favour. And we have been guided by the fact that this should be decided by the lead committee. Why are we here today with [this question]? We are here because there was no consensus on the Board of the Riigikogu and that is why the House must shape its opinion. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. 51 votes are, in my opinion, clearly laid down in different laws or rules of procedure, but this particular draft does not go under them in any way. That's one thing. The other thing is that this is a purely political issue. If we have half of the room running around here for two months, the colours of the Swedish flag on our chest, it is clear from the day that if a ban on symbols is placed on the agenda, the withdrawal of a weapons permit from certain people will be placed on the agenda, the possibility of expulsion of certain people from Estonia will be placed on the agenda, then it is elementary that we will not give the territory of Tartu to the Occupant State under the Treaty of Peace just for beautiful eyes that are not even shown to us. So this is a purely political question. Bringing some political technological games here by requiring 51 votes to save the face of the Reform Party, who is the author and signatory of this creative border agreement, is simply inappropriate and especially inappropriate for you as the Chairman of the Riigikogu, because you reduce the role and weight of the Riigikogu in Estonian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U24	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to react to this flag color [speaking]. Perhaps lately, the flag colors of the Kingdom of Sweden are also being worn, but I have seen most of the colours of the Ukrainian flag and support for Ukraine. Now, from what you said in the second half of the question, whether it is a majority of the votes in favour or a majority of the votes in favour. True, there have been very heated debates about this, not only in the last six months, but also in advance. Does it provide for a change of law? What if he doesn't foresee an amendment to the law? Can we accept the vote by the vote? As I said, this principle has indeed been questioned, both by the government and by the lawyers of this house, that the final decision will be taken by the lead committee, in this case the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Why are we here today? That is why, as I described earlier, there was no consensus in the Bureau on this matter. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U25	Thank you. Indeed, over the last six months, we have discussed this issue quite several times. The body of elders has also been discussing the matter together and has not reached any common understanding, there have been different interpretations. My question is [next]. The Isamaa Group has initiated a number of drafts which have been interpreted by the Bureau as a draft of 51 votes, the Steering Committee has interpreted 51 votes as a draft, and the Bureau has peacefully come to a common understanding, put it into operation and put it on the agenda. This situation has not arisen so that we should discuss it in the big hall. Hence my question: what is the difference in treatment and inconsistency in the drafts that are the contested drafts, where there should be no 51 votes and where the government's proposal has not included an obligation to develop a law? This question concerns the work of the Riigikogu Board and this particular situation. Why have we come to this big hall this time, but in the past, the board has not considered it necessary and has reached a consensus? That's my first question. And the second question. You replied to one of the previous questioners that we were based on the decision of the commission. Which section of the Home and Working Procedures Act do you rely on [if you say] that the commission interprets what is the 51 vote draft and what is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U26	Thank you. I will sign your introductory question, and I agree with that. We have discussed this several times, and legally this issue is seen differently, we must also recognise the legal assessment. You ask why the Bureau has previously decided that this is 51 votes, or a majority of the composition [the required draft], and this was not the case. I think that Article 13 (2) (7) of the Rules of Procedure Act must be invoked here, which says that the Management Board of the Riigikogu prepares the agenda for the working week of the Riigikogu and, in cases arising from this Act, places questions on the agenda on its own initiative, authorises the visitors of the Riigikogu to submit political statements and sets their time. Here was the question that, when we discussed this on the Riigikogu's board, this time we did not find a common language on the agenda of the 13th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 3 May, on the first item on the agenda, which is 540 OE. Martin Helme, a member of the Bureau, felt that this was a majority in favour of [the required draft]. In the past, we have believed that this has required a majority in the composition. So one board member thought differently, and as you know, you have to bring it into this hall to evaluate it. Hanno Pevkur, procedural question, please! Oh, I'm sorry, you asked for that commission thing. We have discussed this in various forms, and we have indeed been following the Bureau at the moment, rather than doing so, as the lead committee has assessed. Hanno Pevkur, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U27	Thank you, good speaker! As a member of the board, indeed, we discussed this and have discussed it repeatedly. It seems to me that these questions have been out of procedure for a long time. However, since there is a possibility that this dispute will also enter into constitutional review, I do consider it necessary to explain this situation to Mr Seeder through a small reply and a question. Indeed, I do not see the possibility, either in substantive terms, of having regard to the Home and Working Procedures Act, that we can vote on this issue at all now because it is not a matter of the Bureau's competence. The Bureau shall be able to put to the vote [these questions] which are within its competence and in which no consensus is reached. That's first. Secondly, I dare to assume that if we went into the content of this particular draft, we would [found that] this is an unconstitutional draft at all, because the Riigikogu has authorised the signing of foreign contracts to the Government of the Republic or to the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic, in this case the Minister. In order to withdraw this mandate, the foreign communication law should be amended first and then Parliament itself can say that we are withdrawing the signature of this agreement. This has not been done and, consequently, according to the principle of separation of powers, the Government of the Republic cannot actually say at all, in this case to the Government of the Republic, to withdraw the signature from there, because the separation of powers means that the executive, judicial and legislative powers exercise their functions on the basis of law, not discretionary decisions. This in-depth legal discourse we could go on for a long time here, but unfortunately we don't have time for that. Now I ask the good speaker, because of Heliri's question: do I understand correctly that we are currently voting on the item on the agenda on Tuesday, and if this difference of opinion is to find support, then the large Chamber of Riigikogu will change the decision of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U28	Thank you. I think that such procedural issues really need to be discussed in plenary. We must not rush here; we must take enough time; we have learned this from previous solutions. Estonia is a rule of law and if we can improve legal clarity, it is always good. But the answer to your question is, as I said, what I will put to the vote: if it is supported by a majority, then that means that the item on the Tuesday agenda requires a majority vote in favour of the Riigikogu. A procedural question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U29	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur basically opened these solids. Our arguments are very fundamental. Dispute No 1 was whether the Riigikogu Board could even discuss this issue. Dispute No 2 was whether the Riigikogu could say something to the government. We were unable to find consensus on these issues and argued on them in the Bureau. I would like to clarify two things that have run through here and which I think need to be straight [talk]. First, Helir-Valdor Seeder asked why there were differences of opinion this time, but never before. [This is because] in the past we have followed the principle that if there is a need to amend the law or if there is a financial cost, then there is a requirement of 51 votes. And if not, there is no [such requirement]. Maybe I've missed something somewhere, but it's true that we're still sort of looking for a way to find a satisfactory solution. This procedure, the way we do it, is still evolving. Right now, we're where we are. Now, my argument is that it is not at all up to the Commission to decide whether 51 votes are needed or not. The Commission has no competence to decide on this. It is stated in the Constitution and in the Constitution's comments when there is a threshold of 51 votes when proposing to the Government of the Republic. It says it there. The Commission cannot choose whether or not to add 51 votes to the request. It is true that the Bureau has asked the ministries and sometimes the committees for an opinion on how they see it, whether it is necessary to amend the law or not. But it is not their decision, it is their opinion, which is the input for the Bureau to make the agenda. It was our fundamental dispute on the board. What the Committee on Foreign Affairs thought was not mandatory for the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U30	Thank you. I'm trying to tie together your procedural question and Helir-Valdor Seeder's procedural question. I have no very long experience of being here on the Board of the Riigikogu, but I dare say that during the year the members of the Executive Board have strongly believed that if there is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, there is 51 [vote requirement]. True, you are right that we have very often discussed this from this point of view, as you said, whether it requires a change in the law or not and who will ultimately decide it. But the direction has been very strongly that it is believed that the proposal to the Government of the Republic requires 51 [yes]. There have been, I think, I am not mistaken, some [cases], when the Commission itself has said by consensus that it does not require an amendment to the law and it is not 51 [yes], or the draft majority of the composition. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U31	Thank you. I want to point out what happened to us in that committee because I was there myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U32	But only through the key to the procedural question, as has been done here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U33	Yeah, I'm getting to that. Indeed, the Bureau asked the Commission to discuss what the majority should be, and the Commission also requested an opinion from the Analysis Department, which was written by Mr Mõdramägi. In fact, this whole opinion was more than weird, because it concludes that since ratification of the treaty requires a majority of composition, it is as if the same proposal should require [a majority of composition] to the government. That is how the Commission decided, although it was not absolutely consensual, to have a majority, but was based on completely wrong and wrong assumptions. Ratification of a state border and proposing to a government are two things entirely by themselves. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that, in fact, under our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission does not have any power to decide what kind of majority is needed. Also, the paragraph you read in our Home and Working Procedures Act does not deal with this moment at all. So, in fact, I do not think that we can use this solution, which the Commission has proposed illegally, without having powers. Like all other proposals, it should go through with a simple majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U34	Thank you. I didn't find a procedural question here at the moment, it was just a descriptive part. But what do I want to say? I explained and said that in the past, in the recent past, there have also been [cases] when we have taken a decision on the motion to the Government of the Republic by a majority vote. I hope I am not mistaken, it was the proposal of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to abolish the COVID restrictions to the Government of the Republic. It was draft decision 527, dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee, and the date was 21 March when we discussed it here. Then there was a majority in favour, not a majority in membership. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U35	Thank you, good Chairman! My procedural question concerns this moment in the Rules of Procedure, which does not state that if some procedural questioners may be oppressing their authority. I would like to point out Hanno Pevkur, who has made some pretty good legal assessments, but in this Chamber, under his leadership, many times people have pointed out that not everything is best with this law. As we know, we have received such confirmation from the court, even this last law, of foreigners, which the President did not endorse. I ask whether the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows that if any of our board members are several times, even though it has been suggested that these things will not go any better anyway, they will still come and say their expert opinion. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U36	I'm gonna ask you this for a second, a chance that he won't say what he's saying? [[Tarmo Kruusmäe will specify.]] Okay, thanks. I think that what a member of the Riigikogu takes into account or does not respect is the result of a law that says that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his or her term of office, that is the principle of free standing, and that he or she makes his or her decisions according to his or her convictions and conscience. That's the way it has to be, and that's how I'd give it the answer. Thank you for this question. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Hanno Pevkur was currently misleading the public when he said that there was some connection to the violation of the principle of separation of powers. That's one side of it. But the important thing I want to say and ask is that we have seen repeatedly during this membership how a decision taken in violation of the law on home and working procedures has been contrary to the Constitution because of the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In this case, we also have [the infringement]. We know that Article 78 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states very specifically when there is a majority in composition and when there is a majority in favour. [Vice-President of the Council] shall only exist if the Constitution or Rules of Procedure so provide. Consequently, the questions that Mr Seeder and Mr Grünthal were asking here were very well founded: what is the rule of the Constitution or what is the rule of the Rules of Procedure, which specifically states that this is a situation in which a majority of the composition is required. Let me ask you again, what is this particular norm? If this is not the case, it is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U38	Thank you. This principle has been that I will respond to Tarmo Kruusimäe or, in addition to him, I will reply to you, Mr Puustusmaa, it has really been the idea that if a proposal to the Government of the Republic requires the drafting of a draft law, an amendment to the law, then a majority of the composition is needed. There has also been an internship in this hall, I stress: the practice in this hall is very widespread, that the proposal to the Government of the Republic has, as a rule, meant a majority in composition. But as our fellow official Tarmo Kruusimäe asked, it is true that we have really been arguing about this for six months. For six months we have been debating and there are very different views as to whether any proposal to the Government of the Republic requires 51 votes in favour or not. This time, the board did not find a consensus and that is why we are asking for your help. Mart Helme, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U39	Thank you. First of all, what I want to say is that our draft is a political statement, a political statement by the Riigikogu. In fact, signatures can be withdrawn simply by means of a diplomatic note sent by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the partner country, in this case the Russian Federation, at the discretion of the Government of the Republic, and says that in the situation that has developed, the Republic of Estonia will withdraw its signature from this agreement. What we are doing now is a political statement, and what you are trying to do now with the coalition ambassadors is to squirm out of this political statement. That's why you want that 51 vote request. I shall also make another remark. If I referred to the colours of the Swedish flag, I would, of course, have ironically referred to the colours of the Reform Party, then [I meant next]. When Karl XII was on the eve of Poltava's battle in Ukraine, he was supported by the Cossacks of Hetman Mazepa, led by the use of Swedish flag colors. And when Ukraine's independence, Mazepa's flag colors were taken over to the Ukrainian flag. So it is indeed the colours of the Swedish flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U40	Thank you. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has been to propose to the Government of the Republic, not to make a political statement. Not a political statement! Kert Kingo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. For the sake of clarity, I would like to know [the following]. Since you mentioned earlier here that the 51 vote requirement is, in the case of a legislative amendment, please tell me what kind of amendment the draft decision of the EKRE that we are talking about is a 540 OE. What specific amendment of the law does it provide for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U42	Thank you. As I described earlier, I repeat. We have asked the board for information, legal assessment, in particular from two places: from the government side and from our house's lawyers, the Legal and Analytical Department. It has been a broad principle that when it comes to a proposal for the Government of the Republic, it is very strongly, I would say, as a rule, demanding a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. This time the board didn't find it that way. One member, Martin Helme, did not find it that way, but thought that a majority of votes in favour would suffice. What you are asking is whether we want to hear it or whether we do not want to hear it, but this is also the decision of the lead committee in this case. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U43	Thank you, Mr President. If you remember, I was the second questioner in this long series of questioners, and I asked you which rule required a majority of votes. I did not get a specific answer to that question from you. The same subject was continued by Helir-Valdor Seeder, and there was no specific answer again. And so you can't start talking again about the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or anything else or any other practice, I would eliminate, good Jüri Ratas, right now, our arguments. Paragraph [78] provides for the required majority, and in this sense, I think, there is no dispute between us about the fact that this rule is regulated by the Home and Working Procedures Act. All right, let's go. The Riigikogu takes its decisions by a majority vote, unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia or the [home and working procedures] Act. Now, good Jüri Ratas, please tell me this paragraph, which says that there is something different in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia or that there is something different in the Law on Home and Working Procedures. All I care about right now is the norm. I do not care that the Committee on Foreign Affairs decides on our practice. Since we have now been placed in a situation where this issue is specifically regulated in the technical field, I would expect an answer in this regard. Please state the norm in the Constitution or [the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure] Act, which provides otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U44	Thank you. § 103 (2) of the Constitution. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U45	Thank you, good Chairman. That's the right provision. But so that it does not sound like it has been debated for the last year or the last six months and it has been called into question, I say as a rememberer of longer history that it has actually been unambiguously understandable to the entire Riigikogu for 30 years. Since its VII membership, it has been interpreted as requiring a majority of its component members when a proposal is made to the Government. There's no way these six months or a year can change that. Otherwise, without changing the provision, we should start to rethink the history of the last 30 years and the proposals made to the government, knowing that a majority of the members of the Riigikogu needed membership, would all or many of them have passed through. This absurd ex post reassessment cannot be carried out on the Constitution either. This is rooted in practice and interpretation, which no one has seriously debated in six months or a year. And what the individual Commission thinks is not decisive either. [We consider] that they give such a comment, however, as information to members of the Riigikogu, and not as any decision to interpret the Constitution. Similarly, this large hall only confirms its current knowledge, practice and voting instructions. We have always had such a voting guide that we do not have to give a vote, but have to see if they want the decision to work or not. My procedural question is, can we go to work now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U46	Yeah, when the procedural questions are over. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, we know that the practice cannot change the law. Neither the committee nor the management board of the Riigikogu can spontaneously change the procedure provided for by law. § 103 (2) of the Constitution discusses the draft proposal to the Government. In this case, however, this is a political decision and it cannot be dealt with by [the provision]. Consequently, it is a purely maladministration. In order to prevent another embarrassment from the Supreme Court in the future and to give us the opportunity to point the finger in our direction, I propose that the board of directors may come together for a moment and discuss it and take down the claim on the majority of the composition and impose a legal requirement on the majority of the votes cast. Then we can go on with this thing calmly and friendlyly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U48	Thank you, good Paul Pulpland! I support your proposal, but I must tell you that the Bureau was ahead of you and that it has already met today in an attempt to resolve this issue. And with the solution, we're right where we are. There's no consensus. So your proposal at the moment, I think, wouldn't be a new outcome. But the point is beautiful and noble, that's what we tried to do today, and there was no peaceful solution. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U49	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of clarity, so that this is also reflected in the verbatim and we can have specific frameworks in place, I would like to know exactly how something must be and what these frames are to continue to do here. Perhaps you will now read out exactly, in which case 51 votes are required and in which case the majority is in favour. What are the conditions that a draft decision must meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U50	Thank you. Let me briefly say that I am sticking to my position, which I have already described. If there is an amendment to the law, an amendment to the bill, then a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required. However, if the reverse is envisaged, I also pointed out that, for example, on 21 March, 527 OE was provided for the reverse, then the majority is in favour. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U51	I'll wait until my colleagues have more important things to talk about. I listened to Mr Jürgen Ligi's wise story about the way [things] have been here for 30 years. Has the Management Board of the Riigikogu discussed that the person who has the longest personal memory in the Riigikogu, such a real pocket, would be involved in the meetings of the Riigikogu Board as an expert? Right now, this is Jürgen Near, but someday someone else will come. In such a case, many things are absent because there is a person who remembers how it was 30 years ago and does not need to study the letter [the word]. Is that what the board thinks?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U52	Thank you. In particular, I do not recall the inclusion of the [mentioned] person in the board meetings as being [considered]. So the answer is no. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U53	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu. I like to hear what you're saying, frankly. At times, you talk a very clever story when you talk about your own mind, but if you start listening to your advisors' direction, it's gonna go a little bit wrong. So I suggest you stick to your so-called wisdom. First of all, what do I want to tell you? When I asked which law required a majority of votes in favour, as long as you did not use the assistance of your advisers, you spoke of the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But when we went into the details and started to ask if this requirement was enshrined in the Constitution or [home and rules of procedure] law, I noticed that you pinched your phone for a while and received an answer to this section. I don't know who you were with, but I assume it was Hanno Pevkur. I'm so sorry if I'm wrong. Then it happened that you referred to my question on the constitutional basis and said that § 103 (2). The first mistake here was that it is not paragraph 2 but paragraph 2. And all the false or, let's say, incorrect information you've given me is based on the fact that this rule governs the right to initiate laws. It's the right to initiate laws. The decision made by our group is not a law. So the norm you referred to can't be used at all right now. We do not currently have the law to deal with, but we have the Riigikogu decision to deal with. Those are two different things. Therefore, I would ask you to give us, however, because this reference to the Constitution was not the correct reference to some other law that would allow us to use a majority in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U54	Thank you. I have read three procedural questions from [your question], and I will answer everyone. Your first statement or assessment was that it was [who gave me the information] that was our associate Hanno Pevkur. Answer: No, it wasn't. Your second argument was that § 103 of the Constitution does not have paragraph 2 So I'll answer your procedural questions. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U55	Thank you, President-in-Office. You said here in one reply that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his opinions and votes, and indeed that is the case. However, in a situation where the same Russia, which we are talking about in the context of this draft decision, is having a full-scale war in Ukraine and we are discussing, in this light, the withdrawal of the signature from the border agreement, and if we look at this faceless pranking by coalition politicians, can we, after the vote, assume that we will arrive at some sort of vote on the freedom of voting of certain members of the Riigikogu to interpret, for example, treason, or the aggressor state to Russia, 5.2% of the post-Tartu peace territory of the Republic of Estonia as continuing support for the donation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U56	Thank you. That's not how I interpret it. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U57	Thank you. I don't want to mess around here with these procedural questions, but it's gotten a lot messier for me. If Hanno Pevkur, as a member of the board, claimed that this draft, which we should discuss on Tuesday, was against the Constitution at all, so he announced today in the big hall, then I have a question as to whether he had the same opinion at the Bureau meeting and expressed it. After all, it is natural that, when it comes to an anti-constitutional bill, it is returned to the initiator. This practice exists in the Bureau and has been used on quite a number of occasions by the Bureau: if the draft to be initiated is unconstitutional or does not comply with the Home and Working Rules Act, it will be returned. Why didn't the board return this bill? Secondly, Mr Pevkur, who is a member of the board, argued that this [question] cannot at all vote in this large Chamber, and I fully agree with him. He argued that [it cannot be done] because it is not at all within the competence of the Bureau, so the Bureau cannot put it to a vote in the large Chamber. What do you have to say about this, why do we still vote on it in this big hall, if the board member has such an opinion, and, as I understand it, so do you? And thirdly, it's extremely strange, did I get it right that we are going to vote first on whether or not this is a 51 vote bill? This is a very interesting precedent when we vote on it. I imagine that at one of the next meetings of the board, a member of the board may find a draft which, according to law and the constitution, requires a simple majority of votes in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, in his opinion it requires 51 votes and he does not agree with [the others] and it comes to the vote in the large hall. Thus [all drafts requiring a simple majority may become 51 votes, and it will be decided in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. This is a very interesting precedent and goes against your own message and interpretation, you said that it is up to the lead committee to decide. I don't understand. Please say, are we really going to vote on this and, in the future, in this form, we can also start making simple majority drafts for membership a majority?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U58	Thank you. None of the members of the Bureau protested or wished to bring the large hall in order to take 540 OE to the proceedings and appoint the Committee on Foreign Affairs as the lead committee. Any ideas? It was a pretty long discussion, I think. [It was discussed] in two sessions of the Riigikogu Board, certainly, if not even three, we had a sitting today. But at the moment we decided to do so, no one had any complaint that he somehow wished to bring it to this vote. Now, your third question. Yes, today we will really vote when these procedural questions are over. I shall put to the vote before you whether or not you support the proposal to delete the words 'Voting of the composition of the Riigikogu' in brackets on this Tuesday, the first item on the agenda tomorrow. Does this also mean the opposite [act], as you asked, in the future? I say, in principle, that if the Bureau does not find consensus on any matter, yes, the basic principle is that it will be brought before the House. Henn Põllaas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U59	Thank you. We have been debating here for a long time, and it is quite clear that this draft, which is proposing to the government, does not require a majority in its composition, but requires a simple majority because it does not require any legislative amendment. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission does not have the power to decide what kind of majority it needs. The Commission's decision is therefore unlawful. Similarly, it is not for the Governing Board to decide which majority it needs. I would like to hear from you whether you are of the opinion that in what we are doing, we must primarily be guided by the Constitution and the Riigikogu law on home and working procedures, and that it is therefore not possible to discuss and vote here on what kind of majority this bill requires. Do you agree with me that we have to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U60	To this last question I will answer yes, of course we must comply with the law. But I think you wanted to ask more about this 540 OE. [Even in this case] we have to comply with the Constitution, the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. After all, we are here because neither the commission nor the board could agree once and for all. And that's when the House evaluates. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm getting a two-way signal from your answers right now. To my question, I ask which of the rules of the Constitution [claim] results from you give the answer to Article 103 (2) or (2) as you call it. But I would point out that this constitutional rule governs the right to initiate the law. At the same time, you also threw out the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So now I do not fully understand whether the majority of the composition of this draft, expressed by you and also expressed by the Riigikogu Board, is based on the Constitutional norm or on the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Which one's the right one? You've sent a two-way signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U62	No, I've been sending the same signal all along. And the signal is that if there is a disagreement in the Bureau on the decision, it will come to this House. Martin Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U63	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, with his last question, came to a point, and the point is very simple. We have been given a list of the draft Rules of Procedure Act, which requires 51 votes, and we have § 103 (2) of the Constitution, which says that if the government is proposed to initiate the draft, the threshold of 51 votes will apply. In addition, in both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we also have some other places where other thresholds are discussed. For example, there is a threshold for amending the Constitution, three-quarters. We have some very specific things here where this threshold is. It is neither the Commission nor the Bureau's discretion to say that this draft has a higher threshold. There's no such thing. We have a closed list of things that have a threshold, either a majority in favour or a qualified majority. That was part of the argument we had on the board. It cannot be that the Commission simply simply puts us at a higher threshold, because it feels so [right], and the board is just gonna slap on it and say that okay, the Commission did. That way we can't work, it's a no-brainer. That's the argument we have here. The question now is whether the large hall can set this threshold if the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution do not provide for it. Of course, even a large hall cannot set a threshold if there is no threshold in the law. But the big hall will be able to vote on the dispute we have, and then the courts will grind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U64	Thank you. I cannot comment on what will happen in the future, whether grinding or grinding, but Estonia is the rule of law and it is always good to move towards legal clarity and clarity. Priit Onion, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You began your introduction by not reaching a consensus in the Bureau, because one member of the Bureau had a disagreement. From this hall, however, we heard that another member of the board had a different opinion and considered this draft to be unconstitutional. So we learned that there are three members on the board and three opinions on the board, but we only vote on one difference of opinion. Are you still on what you brought before us and what was on the board? And I also have a [second] question: did the Bureau ask for this question of constitutional opposition proposed by Mr Pevkur to be analysed whether this draft decision of the Riigikogu is a constitutional draft or a draft that contradicts it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U66	Thank you. I'm on this proposal that I've brought before you. Is that what we asked for? No, I didn't. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U67	Thank you, Mr President. I really liked that sentence when you answered Henn Põllea's question as to whether the laws were to be enforced. You said yes, of course, the laws are to be enforced. But now I do not understand why we are even taking some kind of vote now, because Article 78 of our Rules of Procedure states the required majority. What more do we have to vote here if the law says so? But I say again that the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs is not the legislator that you have always pointed out. And therefore, when you treat it as a legislator, you have a wrong view of the matter. Your reference to § 103 paragraph or paragraph 2 of the Constitution also speaks of the right to initiate the Act, but this bill is only a decision of the Riigikogu, it is not a draft law. In fact, therefore, Mr Ratas, we are still in the position that, since neither the law nor the constitution provides such a rule for the required majority, you will not be able to put the required majority of the Riigikogu to debate at all. So here we do not need to vote, because if the law says so, how can we oppose the law by our own majority? The action you're doing right now is actually against the law. Although you said in the first sentence that you love to obey the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U68	Thank you. We are going to this vote today because a member of the board of the Riigikogu and a member of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, have wished for it. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U69	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, through a long debate and a round of questions and answers, we have learned that we have only two options. One possibility is that we will not vote and we will implement it with a majority in favour of 540 OE. It's one chance, and then we'll follow the law. The other option is that we do not comply with the law and we will vote. In this case, it must be considered that the rule applies in the Riigikogu that compliance with or non-compliance with the law is decided by the Riigikogu's vote. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U70	No, you didn't get it right, because you get it, I think you get it. That was the dispute on the Riigikogu's board. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U71	Thank you. Well, you're still getting this demagogy out of one hand and the other. What Martin Helme did not agree with was the refusal of two board members to comply with the law. To comply with these laws, which are enshrined in the Constitution as well as in the Home and Working Conditions. He demanded compliance with the law, and you two refused to comply with the law, and that's what the whole problem is about. And what you're doing on that remote right now is just embarrassing. It is a disgrace, because you also break the law when you are on the remote and violate your position, your impartial position as chairman of the meeting, which requires you to have your home and operating procedures. This is extremely embarrassing and disgusting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U72	Thank you. This same board has been in the position for over a year that proposing to the Government of the Republic requires a majority of 51 votes in favour, i.e. a majority of the composition. It's been a permanent position. There has really been, as I said, an exceptional case that came from the Social Affairs Committee. Martin Helme, Member of the Board, has also expressed the opinion that 51 [yes] are needed if the Government of the Republic is to be proposed. This was not the case in this case, and now we have to vote here. Can't say someone's in favour of the law and someone's against the law. I don't agree with that. A procedural question, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have been discussing this legal status for quite a while here today, whether it is legally correct or not correct. Has the Bureau discussed this in the key to how the President recently failed to announce amendments to the Aliens Act? Maybe we need to strengthen the legal and analysis department, get more people, or maybe start ordering legal assessments from outside the house, so that we don't have to fight around here all the time over what anyone thought. And so would some broad-based analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U74	Thank you. Well, I guess getting a one-and-a-very broad legal opinion here, you know, is pretty complicated. It is said that if there is one legal issue and there are several lawyers, there are also several different opinions. I cannot say that we would only have discussed this subject in the light of the Aliens Act. This board, like previous management boards, has naturally discussed the importance of strengthening the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, as well as budgetary reinforcement. That, of course, is what we have discussed. But to say that, just now, this debate has come to a particularly sharp table, and it has not been on the agenda. It is clear that, as always in the country, we need to look at wage levels across all authorities, institutions and ministries. And here the Riigikogu is not among the first, above, but rather behind. Now I will start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the suggestion of Mr Helme, a member of the Bureau, to delete the words "Voting of the composition of the Riigikogu" in brackets from the first item on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U75	With the result of 27 votes against 59, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, we have now come to the clarification and approval of the agenda. Point one, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the transfer of the State's draft supplementary budget law for 2022. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas as the first item on the agenda. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to exclude the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act (582 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U76	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment there was an illegal vote in this Chamber, where a question was put to the vote that should not actually have taken the vote. I ask who will take responsibility for this illegal vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U77	Thank you. As I said earlier, a member of the Riigikogu is free in his voting and mandate. Now we have two proposals, and along with these amendments, I will vote on the agenda for the 13th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall vote on the agenda of the 13th working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu, together with these two amendments. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U78	With the result of 68 votes to 8 with 1 abstention, the agenda for the 13th working week of the VII session has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U79	Let's start the agenda now. The first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas regarding the transfer of the draft law on the additional budget for 2022. Dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce this procedure. This is due to § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has a political statement for up to 20 minutes. As regards questions, pursuant to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Management Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which political group representatives may speak. I now ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U80	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The war in Ukraine is on for sixty-seven days. It forces us all to think about what freedom means for each and every one of us. Freedom is not self-evident, it is fragile and needs to be kept. Therefore, the supplementary budget focuses on the steps we need to take to protect our freedom. Europe's security has not been as turbulence in the last 30 years as it has been this year. According to all forecasts, the difficult time is still ahead this year, and we are facing a lot of uncertainty in the same way. In order to increase the security of free and democratic Estonia, the government today presented the Riigikogu with an additional budget for the strengthening of Estonia during the war period, amounting to 732 million euros. This is complemented by changes in tax impact and costs that are automatically dependent on tax revenues, resulting in a total volume of costs, investments and financing transactions of EUR 802.9 million. With this extra budget, we will make Estonia stronger and give the people of Estonia more security. We can handle a changed security situation. The extra budget for the war period supports the Estonian state and people's coping with the effects of the Ukrainian war. This will provide serious support in the difficult year to strengthen the security of Estonian people, the livelihood of the most vulnerable groups and Estonia's energy security. The entire additional budget relates to the smoothing of the effects of the war against Ukraine launched by Russia and to covering the resulting emergency needs. The additional budget consists of three pillars. Firstly, strengthening Estonia's broad-based security and resilience. This means both better military preparedness and, more broadly, protection and protection in the cyber sphere. Secondly, strengthening energy security. Investments from the additional budget will help us to become independent of Russian gas. And thirdly, mitigating the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which includes both the costs of helping refugees in war and supporting the Estonian people in coping with the price increases caused by the Putin War. Good Riigikogu! [I speak] first of all about strengthening military protection. In strengthening our military defence, we have drawn from the opinions of experts and lessons learned from the war in Ukraine and from the fact that funding helps to increase Estonia's military capacity as quickly as possible. After restoring Estonia's independence 30 years ago, we decided that we would never be alone again. We are therefore active members of NATO. Collective protection plays a key role in ensuring Estonia's security directly. Estonia's defence is part of NATO's plans, and efforts to strengthen NATO's collective defence are ongoing on a daily basis. The government aims to increase NATO's military presence in the Baltic region. We have also agreed a common position with Latvia and Lithuania for the NATO summit in Madrid. We would like every Baltic state to have a battle-capable division in NATO, consisting of the units of the host country itself and of the allied state. In the case of Estonia, this would mean that in addition to our two infantry brigades, there would also be an allies brigade in Estonia and the necessary support units, such as air defense and division control element. In order to host the allied forces already present in Estonia, we need to expand the infrastructure, and for that we see the resources available in the additional budget. Strengthening NATO's collective defence is necessary so that Russia does not have any idea of looking towards Estonia with its enlargement and conquest plans. Another important area is protection of the population and internal security. Since 2014 the annexation of Crimea and the military activities in Eastern Ukraine, society's sense of danger was very strong. At the end of 2015, the concept of population protection was developed. Later, the expert group on shadowing developed proposals for the organisation of shadowing. However, there were no financial possibilities for this. But without the money, they're just plans. Therefore, after Russia had extended the aggression in Ukraine, we decided that population protection needed funding in addition to the plans. We create a system of shelters and citizens' safety reporting and increase the rescue capacity to perform national defence tasks. The third important area is the strengthening of cyber capabilities and cyber security. At the end of April, the NATO Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre in Estonia, located in Tallinn, conducted the world's largest cyber defence exercise in Locked Shields. On the last day of the training, a Russian-minded cyber group organised five-day cyber attacks against 13 Estonian institutions. Our National Information System Authority managed the attacks well. Against the background of Russia's aggression towards Ukraine, the cyberguards of the Estonian state had been preparing for such developments for several months and had put new safeguards on key institutions. Here, the recent financial allocations of the Government of the Republic also contributed to cyber security, which has enabled the capacity of both the RIA and other institutions to be improved. In the case of Estonia, this is one of the most digitised societies in the world. Therefore, in defending our traditional way of life, we must also pay attention to cyberspace. With the additional budget, we will make important additional money to strengthen Estonia's cyber capabilities and security. By the way, the last time the non-military areas of national defence received a significant injection of money was when the prime minister was Taavi Rõivas. Good listeners! Another important [pillar] in the supplementary budget is the strengthening of energy security. Already in the January political statement on energy, I pointed out that the biggest part of the increase in energy prices in our region is by far the price of natural gas. It is natural gas that is the source of energy for a large part of Europe. For Russia, however, natural gas has become a political instrument for destabilising democratic European countries. Through the Community, we are vulnerable by the other side, so connections should be established, above all, with our allies. Energy independence strengthens our overall security. Gas may be expensive, but freedom is priceless. In the additional budget, we foresee the means to completely decouple Estonia from Russian gas. Additional resources are needed to acquire the central gas supply of the country and to bring the fuel supply of the country deposited in Finland and Sweden to Estonia. The plan is to create a central gas supply for 1 point-hours. I would point out that we do not buy Russian pipeline gas when we buy gas. In addition to gas supply, Estonia needs the capacity to absorb LNG already this autumn. For this we need contact with the Balticconnector, the LNG reception grips and the ship with the possibility of regasification coming to the quay. Since Estonia's gas consumption is 5 terawatt-hours per year, while Finland's consumption is 30 terawatt-hours, it is good that we were able to agree with Finland on the possibility of regasification to rent the ship together. We must, of course, prepare for the coming autumn, and that can be done by each of us. Since the Riigikogu has passed a law that allows prices to be fixed for a longer period, it is worthwhile doing so in the summer, when prices are low, and thus avoiding the stress of high energy prices even in the autumn. The additional budget also provides for resources to invest in energy savings and small-scale solutions. The latter will help in the future to prevent the situation of Estonian consumers from being significantly affected by the sharp fluctuations in energy prices outside our control. Tough times are coming, and we all need to think about how to protect ourselves. The third major area in the supplementary budget is the mitigation of the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which includes both the costs of helping refugees in war and the support of the Estonian people in coping with the rising prices resulting from the Putin War. High inflation is an increasing problem. It is the duty of the state to care for its weakest members and, therefore, we offer an important safety net to those who find it difficult to cope with the price increase caused by Putin's [war activities]. The income support limit increases by 33% to 200 euros. It is necessary to help the most vulnerable to come through difficult times. We have also set aside money by autumn to support our elderly and children. Good Riigikogu! We see the cruelty and destruction that Putin is committing in Ukraine, the suffering that ordinary Ukrainian people have to endure, children, mothers, fathers, grandfathers, grandmothers. Over 13 million people have been forced to flee their homes. 5.4 million of them have also left Ukraine and more than 34000 of them have arrived in Estonia. Europe has not seen a flood of people fleeing this war for several decades. 79% of the war refugees arriving in Estonia are women and children whose men and fathers have remained at war in Ukraine. In Estonia, almost every family has its own story, either in connection with leaving Estonia as a war refugee or deportation to Siberia. We know what it means to abandon our home and other earthly possessions. I believe that this is also the reason why, since 24 February, the Estonian people have been warm and helpful to Ukrainians fleeing the war. Individuals, civil society, entrepreneurs, public officials have sometimes even crossed the limits of human capabilities, providing shelter and safe accommodation for war refugees to support their overall success. Thank you very much to all of them. With the additional budget, we plan to cover the primary needs of the refugees and the state's contribution to international protection. We offer children and young people in Ukraine who have fled from the horrors of war the opportunity to acquire education from early childhood education to higher education. The war has left every fugitive with a deep wound to his soul, so it is also important to provide psychological protection. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The government will be in front of you in a year with a third budget. This shows that the circumstances in Estonia and elsewhere in the world have been turbulence and it has not been possible to foresee even what will happen in a few months' time. The current supplementary budget has one clear objective. The costs and investments that we foresee with the extra budget for wartime are included in the objective of making Estonia stronger and giving our people confidence. The confidence that Estonia will be protected and ready for hybrid threats, the confidence that our homes will be warm, the confidence that our people will cope with the rapid rise in prices in these troubled times, and the confidence that our small society will manage to help the tens of thousands of Ukrainian people who are fleeing here from Putin's killing machine. Finally. Of course, the creation of an additional budget will also give rise to other concerns that remain unsolved with the annual budget. But I have a big request for the Riigikogu. We cannot delay the additional budget beyond the immediate needs of the Ukrainian war. It's an extra budget for wartime with a firm focus. Only by sticking to a particular focus can we survive difficult times and even come out stronger. War means that internal political differences must be avoided. It's a time of consensus. These decisive steps are necessary for Estonia's safe present and future. I call on you to support the additional budget proposed by the government and I wish you a constructive debate on political parties. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U81	Thank you. For strength! It is now that the Management Board of the Riigikogu, in cooperation with the Prime Minister's Office, has found a consensus that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. We will not vote here, either, and we will move on to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Lauri Läänemetsa, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! [[Lauri West Forest is asking for more time.]] Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! In troubled times, the country must have an answer to all the threats that threaten our people. However, the additional budget that has just been transferred is inadequate on these issues. We will find an answer to this in order to increase military defence and help the Ukrainians. These are undoubtedly important and appropriate costs; we support them. However, the additional budget does not answer how we ensure the livelihood of Estonian families, how we, as a society, face extreme inflation, price increases that threaten to rob children of development opportunities or hope for their home. Security also means having a sense of security, that it is possible to plan your family's life for more than one month. In a strong Estonia, security and coping must be inextricably linked. Remember that this year policemen, rescuers, nurses, active troops, teachers, cultural workers, guardians and many other Estonian people went against the knowledge that, at the expense of their salaries, the state is saving their well-being, their children and their spouses? The good people on whom our broad-based national defence is based have been deprived of hundreds of euros today, every month. However, there is not a cent in the extra budget to remedy the unfair government policy. Inflation is a regressive tax with the greatest impact on low and middle incomes. Inflation is disproportionately damaging to their lives, as food, home and transport account for the majority of their expenditure, and the costs associated with them have increased the most. Today, most earners are poorer in terms of purchasing power than a year ago. Bread, pasta, firewood, car fuel, many things are at least twice as expensive. Simply put, out of 100 euros, the cost of living has already taken 19 euros. The recipient of an average salary must spend more than 100 euros per month than he normally wants to live. In a year, inflation absorbs more than one month's salary. A pensioner loses one month's pension during the year. What is the government's answer to decades of the greatest problem our people are facing? One-off allowance of EUR 50, i.e. EUR 4 and 17 per month. I've got a sample of that support with me, so I'm gonna ring around for it. Here it is, just how much it is offered to people every month. You can see if you remember such a small amount of money. By the way, none, not even the smallest and cheapest package of diapers can get with this money. You can get a small patch pack or drops from the pharmacy, but not medications. I do not understand why it is necessary to taunt the people of Estonia in this way. Social democrats are immediately very interested in the impact analyses and objectives of such support, which are being pursued. I'm sure we'd like to meet them. Especially in a situation where people with missing or partial capacity to work are excluded from the €4 allowance. A war can't apologize for not helping your people. The crisis is everywhere and bites painfully: vocational and higher education, national defence, child support, health care, housing shortages and high rents. Those who say that subsidies are not the main solution are right. It's not. The solutions to such a major structural problem consist, rather, of tax cuts in the taxes of average and below wage earners. The Social Democrats have issued a draft procedure in the Riigikogu, which provides for a reform of the income tax system, resulting in an increase in people's incomes of up to 1000 euros per year. Our proposal would benefit many workers with low and medium wages, including the elderly, including those who work. It is a question of dignity and principle. Salary and pension must be enough to make a living. Although this has not been taken into account again in the additional budget, now is the time to actually do something about the devastating effects of the cost of living. Finally, I would like to remind you that the main issue of the recent French presidential election was costing and coping. Nearly took the right-wing populists to victory. The harder effects of inflation are still ahead of us in Estonia, as are the parliamentary elections. Coping is security in every way. Social Democrats will not be a spectator in standing up for the livelihood and dignified wages of Estonian families. Thank you. I'm gonna put this [example] on the circle now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U83	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech by Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U84	May I ask for an extra three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U85	Yeah, we're not making any board decision here. Of course it's okay. Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U86	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, I am not the fetishist of budgetary balance. I think that if a country needs to spend money on investments, borrowing is one way of doing it, especially if it is really spent on investing in economic growth. That is why I always felt relatively cold when the Reform Party screamed, really screamed, that we had a budget deficit, and during the corona crisis, imagine we took out a loan. Something was said about how the loan money and the deposit light are burning quickly, and after Prime Minister Those are his own words in his blog that we, our children and our grandchildren must pay back that loan. Jürgen Ligi, on the other hand, tried to make it clear to us that if we took out a loan, it was inevitable that tax increases would also come, because there was no other way to serve the loan. Why am I saying all this? Along with the additional budget that the government has just presented here and the budget adopted last autumn, the volume of the Estonian state budget will increase by 14% in 2022. It is a total record, we have never had such a large increase in budget volume. The structural deficit reaches 4.5%, which is a total record, which was never the case when the previous government was in power and I was the Minister of Finance. Do you remember all the hysterical distress that Martin Helme, as Minister of Finance, left a billion-dollar hole in the budget, and that billion was in the four-year RES? After a later period of less than a year, it turned out that this billion [instead] was actually about 600 million or even less in four years, and that was the money we spent mostly under the conditions of the Coronary Apandemia. But now the government of Kaja Kallas is going to create a five-billion-dollar budget hole in the next five years. The eye doesn't look. I don't hear any exclamations from Jürgen Ligi about how it can't be done. Kaja Kallas himself is neither ashamed nor embarrassed that he completely confuses the monetary affairs of the Estonian state. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is not concerned about our children or grandchildren, and no one will explain to me what kind of tax is being raised to pay for all this. I don't like listening to this quite, I'd say, childish propaganda about how it's all Putin's fault. It is not Putin's fault that the Reform Party came to power and knocked down the Estonian state's budget. The way in which LNG terminals and gas pipelines are now being built is to be commended. Dear friends, I would like to remind you once again that for ten years the Reform Party has blocked the possible alternative gas import infrastructure to Estonia, which will help us to overcome almost 100% of our dependence on Russian gas. Now, again, with the Finns and Latvians, some schemes are being made, which are in half the wayward, but mostly not so much a distortion of the eye, but still tens of millions of people from the state budget are being transferred to interest groups. We actually have a quay with LNG absorption capacity, but it is not suitable for today's government, but it needs to start building new quays, new pier, new wires for tens of millions. All this talk about how we now invest in national defence, it has been a Reform Party that has been blocking the development of Estonian national defence for decades. In February, when the war had started, Jürgen Ligi and Kalle Laanet were told by mouth that Estonia did not need any new capabilities, because we have allies. And when we look at this extra budget, [we see] much of the money that goes to increase the cost of Estonian national defence is not going to increase our capacity, but it will be put back in our reserve [to cover this money], which we have given to Ukraine. So we're gonna cause ourselves a problem, and then we're gonna heroically solve it ourselves. But what about the remaining amounts in the state budget? 275 million goes to immigrants. The government itself has created an immigration crisis by paying the NGOs to bring people to Estonia by bus every day without checking who they are and where they come from and whether they are not really Russians. We ourselves are creating an immigration crisis and then we will have hundreds of millions to pay for this programme of replacing the Estonian population with Estonian taxpayers' money. The money we give to the Ukrainians pays off, I draw attention to our children, our grandchildren and ourselves. Or [they pay it off] tax increases or I don't know what it's through. Remember when Valga closed the maternity ward? It took EUR 200000 to keep Valga's maternity department in service. [That money] wasn't there. Money that doesn't exist can't be spent, so the Reform Party told us. There's no money, there's no, you know, the country has as much money as it has. EUR 200000 not found. Do you remember how a year ago we argued whether the Estonian state was so rich that 4 million children could be put into recreational education? Well, there wasn't that money, there wasn't 4 million you couldn't live in debt, there was a low light, you see, burning fast. In order to save some tens of thousands, border cordons are closed in East Estonia, toilets are cleared off the side of the road, because we don't, you know, we don't have a million to keep the roads clean. But if there's money to be given to immigrants, 270 million, no problem, there's enough for everyone. Energy crisis, another 250 million. It's a self-inflicted problem. Do not tell us that this is the price increase caused by Putin's [activity]. It's green turn price increases, it's green turn inflation. And inflation has nothing to do with the war that has now been going on for two months, but it has to do with the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve of America, the British Central Bank and the Japanese Central Bank printing money for years and years. Here comes the inflation. The green turn and the money print have caused inflation, but it's very convenient to pin it on Putin. There is no doubt that the war in Ukraine will boost price increases and create a great deal of economic problems. But it would be fair to talk about where the root cause of the problem is, and it would also be fair to say that the solution to the energy crisis is not to take 250 or even more million loans on behalf of taxpayers, so that we can then distribute subsidies that do not cover the real price increase, but it would be fair to say: no, this insane green turn that drives us all to bankruptcy must be stopped and we must produce a normally cheap energy again. This budget, which has been brought here, is not one aspect of this budget that is positive or beautiful. It is simply the transfer of money to our friends in tens of millions, the resolution of our own crises in hundreds of millions, or the propaganda of how the war abroad is the reason why we have to pay more taxes to the people of Estonia. To be honest, I do not see how we can support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U87	Thank you. I now ask for Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, representative of the Isamaa Group, to speak in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U88	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U89	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, People's wisdom says it's a long-made beauty. However, this cannot be said of this extra budget, even though for several months the members of the Riigikogu and the ministers of the government coalition have been dripping on front reports, how one or the other problem has been solved, how additional money is allocated to education, how additional money is allocated to energy security, how national defence capabilities are increased and how an agreement and solutions have been found for this. However, this additional budget that opens up before us is not the additional budget that ministers and government coalition ambassadors have previously announced through the media. We have record inflation, which the previous speakers have repeatedly spoken about here. However, this additional budget does not include any solution, I stress: no solution or any means to manage inflation, no longer a plan. Autumn is coming, we can see that spring inputs to food production have increased, in autumn inflation will increase further. Fuel supply, energy security not guaranteed. In the autumn, we will see that the same is repeated as last year. And what about the government coalition? The reduction of the EU minimum level of excise duties on petrol and diesel has been rejected by the Fatherland and will not continue to be supported. But what's the alternative? There is no alternative. VAT reduction from 20% to 9% for electricity, gas and indoor heating, even on a temporary basis, which would help people to cope with [higher] costs, [higher] bills, on the one hand, and inflation, on the other hand, the government will not continue to support. In this supplementary budget, we see no solution whatsoever. So there is no solution to curbing inflation. Indeed, even if the tax exemption from the minimum wage proposed by the Sotsi were precisely to control inflation on the one hand and help the most vulnerable, or low wage earners, on the other hand. Low-wage earners we direct to benefits and at the same time they pay income tax. A completely unreasonable, bureaucratic solution! But, unfortunately, there is no solution to these additional budgets. Now, strengthening security and strengthening resilience, which the Prime Minister here spoke for a very long time as a separate block from one of the three blocks. You know, the additional budget may say that a total of EUR 15 million will be allocated to it. The additional budget of more than 800 million is 15 million euros in defence expenditure! It does not even cover the growing needs of the Defence League of the current year, as membership of the Defence League is increasing. Indeed, it seems that the proposal made by the Minister of Defence a few months ago that the Defence League should make a 2% cut will come true after this additional budget. The development of capabilities will delay the unknown future, and no one cent is foreseen in this budget to build up the baseline faster. A one-off €50 grant for children and pensioners, we all realise that this is not a sustainable solution. This is not a sustainable solution! In the case of pensioners, it would be more reasonable to enforce the law already passed by the Riigikogu, which exempts the average pension from income tax and at the same time exceptionally raises the base part of the pension from 1 July this year. In this way, without additional subsidies and additional bureaucracy, we could meet pensioners, provide aid much better and more stablely, and mitigate the rise in the cost of living resulting from the rise in inflation. But, unfortunately, this additional government budget does not provide either. The problem of underfunding higher education remains unresolved. Underfunding for higher education has become a chronic problem that has been allowed to be repeatedly resolved but has not been done so far. Universities have continued to have no administrative agreements with the State, which means that funding for universities will amount to 1/12 of last year's funding. Let us now consider inflation, 1/12 of last year's volume of funding. There's no perspective. It is said that in the future, when drawing up the state budget and in the national budget strategy, we will take these needs into account and come back to solving the problem. However, this year it would be possible to solve this problem with twenty million, to give the universities confidence. Similarly, the state would also have confidence, relations would be normalised and agreements could be concluded between universities and the state. I am not going to repeat what Mr Helme was talking about here earlier and the principles of the Reform Party. Just as a marginal remark, I note that the Reform Party has always emphasised that they stand up to the end against tax distinctions, but yet we count the introduction of tax differentiation from 9% to 5% in the case of VAT on the press. This is now [in the opinion of the Reform Party] the most important measure and solution to go against its long-standing principled monetary policy credo. You see, there is no [reduce] VAT on energy carriers, diesel, petrol or gas. This cannot be done, but [in the case of journalism, the reduction of VAT] is the solution and the key to making the Estonian people happy. I very much hope that the proposals of the Fatherland will be discussed in substance. And the fact that the government discussed for several months and reached such a poor draft [additional budget] does not mean that the Riigikogu should deal with it as a matter of urgency. I did not read any urgent measures out of this draft, so we can calmly take several weeks to discuss the proposals made by the various parties, so that this additional budget can really become substantive and solve the problems facing Estonian society in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U91	Thank you. As a representative of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask the Riigikogu Chair Jürgen Ligi. Please! Do you have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U92	Yeah, we could, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U93	Yes, please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U94	Eight extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U95	Three extra minutes to five.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a little sad when the Fatherland is confined to a marginal remark on the criticism of the EKRE. It could have been a fundamental speech. But I will mention this simply out of nostalgia about this Isamaa, who cared about Estonian finances and sustainability in general rather than reacting backwards to Estonia's problems. I actually agree with the final criticism of the tax distinction so that it would be easier for you, Helir. And second of all, I also agree with what you said about a 50-euro distribution. But in general, we all have to admit that the extra budget is an unusual thing and there should be no such thing. We should all start with why [we need] additional budget again and why [we needed] the previous one and why these additional budgets are so different. The additional budget for the Coronation Period was fully understandable in that the time for the corona and the closure had to be survived, and medical expenses had to be paid. It was natural crisis management, to put more money on it. The recession budget was the opposite, then it was necessary to blow up the economy, to cool down the economy and to save public finances, to build trust. It was a very effective crisis management in this regard. In the case of Corona, very much was quite literally stolen, the money went arbitrarily, and the story is that the money is going somewhere. After that, it turned out to be a great deal for our own. Those were the words of the then Minister of Finance that the money was going somewhere. The point of this crisis is security, we have a security crisis. This shouldn't be the place where every party puts on their own record. It's a shame, of course, that the Soviets have to talk about the fact that when we deal with security, we don't deal with our people, we deal with someone else. And then, in summary, they propose solutions that actually deepen this problem, called inflation, which is part of the security crisis. Yes, inflation is the most directly caused by inflation and, secondly, by spreading the country's costs, which have taken place for five years, with the money that was released from the pension pillar. There are also domestic demand problems that fuel inflation, but above all, we are talking about the security crisis. Listening to the previous Minister of Finance, his idea was the PPP. First he disperses decoy missiles, which should divert precision weapons, and then his old Russian-time helicopter hopes to escape. No, the chitchat that the Reform Party, as he likes to say, says that the budget must always be balanced, and that the Reform Party has promised that the loan will never be taken is slander. It's a blank blaze, a decoy missile, and this helicopter is going down anyway, the money helicopter isn't working. We have always made a difference in what kind of crisis to act in. During the recession, as I said, there was a need to blow up and more money needed to be put in the coronal crisis. Since reserves had already been eaten by previous governments, a loan had to be taken. We have not criticised this in principle. We have said that the loan must be restrained and paid back, but not that the loan must not be taken. That's a lie. But, well, this is Martin Helme and that's who he is. Secondly, where Martin Helme gets from his PPP, it's Putin. He has said here several times that Putin did not cause this increase, no, Putin did not cause immigration, but the [current] government did. Now this is the kind of Kremlin and EKRE that actually, let's put them together, is the same thing. [Martin Helme says] The crisis is self-inflicted, the migration is self-inflicted, the price increase is self-inflicted for God's sake that Putin is protected. But let us remind ourselves, then, that we have an increase in prices, which is largely caused by energy prices. If anyone here is going to talk so there's a way to suppress it with taxes, that's a lie. Expertise must be put into practice. It's Putin again, it's the Soviet Union again, where no experts are used. If we reduce taxes on energy, we will increase demand. But the problem with energy prices is that supply is already falling short of demand. This is the wrong policy to subsidise energy. There are two things to be done. Firstly, we need to find and support the most needy, and secondly, we need to invest. Investments take time, but there is a long-term solution to this in this extra budget, so Heliri was wrong in that sense. Is there enough? Obviously, a bill made in such a hurry cannot foresee everything. But basically, we have to deal with prices and the energy crisis through investment [through] and social problems through social policy, not through price regulation, which makes it even worse. Of course, it is sad when the security budget does not have much [foreseen] to be directly armed, but this is also the answer. Firstly, the 380 million euros that were put into circulation in January were very, very timely in the sense that at that point the procurement could be launched and this will solve our initial need. But generally, procurement takes time now. We can't buy much more weapons this year, it's inevitable, defence procurement doesn't work that way. Secondly, the world is changing, too. We have a completely different level of collective protection emerging, we have Finland and Sweden becoming partners, and we also have other partners waking up and better understanding what it means to be a NATO border area. Each party does not need to have weapons of its own name and [no need] the complaining that there are too few weapons, [we have to] now and now. They'd be a wild guess, wrong decisions. I also think that in a situation where only coffins and scraps are left in Pihkva, we have time to make the best decisions. The Russian has a smoke outside, he's not threatening us right now. Of course, he threatens us all the time, but our answer would be quick and destructive. We're just over so much that we don't have to make desperate decisions. In this sense, this budget is still in quite good condition, with quite good focus. It is a pity that he is so big, but it is also a pity that, before this crisis, the budget has been brought to such a low point in five years that we cannot do all of this with a better budget. But no one here has said anything about budget balance except Martin Helme. Tell Putin this story, but not this Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U97	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. That is the first item on our agenda. Good fellows, I'm taking the chairman's break for 20 minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the manager is over. During the holidays, the Board of the Riigikogu met. We took four drafts into Riigikogu proceedings and decided to convene an additional session of the Riigikogu. The first additional session of the Riigikogu will take place on 4 May 30 minutes after the end of the regular session, that is, on Wednesday 30 minutes after the end of the session. We hope that we will be able to deal with the four points on the agenda. These are drafts relating to the state budget, together with the additional budget of the state. If we take longer, we also called an additional sitting on 5 May, 30 minutes after the end of the work of the Special Committees on Investigation and Problem. I hope there's no need for that. The additional session of 4 May will not last until 9.30 a.m. on 5 May and there will be four items on the agenda. First point: Draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Second point: Draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Third, the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Fourthly, the draft law on the additional budget of the State initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2022. Now, that is where we have exhausted what has happened during the intermission, and we can move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U99	The next item is the second item. This is an inquiry by Riina Sikkuti, Helmen Küti, Eduard Odinets, Lauri Läänemets, Ivari Padari, Raimond Kaljulaid and Kalvi Tõik, members of the Riigikogu, about solidarity during the war. This is Riina Sikkuti, the representative of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U100	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. Indeed, almost a month ago, we asked the Prime Minister how to run society during the war. This concerns strategic communication, additional costs, as well as the work we do here in the Riigikogu on a daily basis, i.e. the handling of drafts. And indeed, as the Prime Minister explained when transferring the extra budget, the reaction of the Estonians has still been surprisingly positive and supportive, for example, in the reception of war refugees. In fact, it has also strengthened national feeling and unity. It is therefore our responsibility in this Chamber to maintain and strengthen this unity. But what we have seen during 67 days of war has raised a number of questions that we would like to get answers to and debate on. On the one hand, we have seen how the necessary changes to the security crisis are brought into the procedure with drafts that contain both matters of focus on the crisis and decisions taken with a much broader impact and with a longer plan in mind. The question is, if there is an urgent procedure, whether it is worth putting these two things in one bill, or whether it will cement the gaps that we have anyway. Secondly, we are asking about the search for consensus between political parties. Even in an emergency, in the corona crisis, I think the public expected less fighting in politics and more cooperation for the future of the Estonian people. The question is whether in the security crisis we will be able to take this step if the corona crisis failed. Thirdly, we are asking about the challenge of war refugees. What is it that the people of Estonia need to know? What is expected of them? What kind of effort does it make for society to accommodate war refugees, provide them with public services, provide them with education? And what are citizens expected to do, should they simply donate or need some other, additional contribution? Will we face this challenge in providing [front] accommodation or in a school environment? How to maintain unity and how to ensure that the people of Estonia see the challenge that we have in the same way? Finally, we ask about the availability of information. I myself was surprised at how very good fact-based stories and expert explanations are behind the tax wall during the corona crisis. Even if comments were banned from certain portals for corona themes, these articles could still not be read freely. And now, during the war, the situation is similar. The interviews with the security experts, as well as the type of news to identify false information, are behind the tax wall. Let us ask if there is any way to reach an agreement with private media publications so that such important stories are accessible to everyone. False information reaches everyone free of charge and proactively anyway, but in order to cope with it in any way [better], information and knowledge in the opposite direction could and, I'm not tired of stressing, interviews with experts to open up the background of the crisis and explain the decisions made, it is still important information that is accessible to everyone in the same way. Thank you. We will be happy to hear the Prime Minister's answers and ask for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U101	I now ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U102	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the questions raised in the inquiry. I say right away that since I have to read the question and the questions are quite long, I hope that I can fit all the answers well in this time. First of all: "If we set Estonia's long-term fundamental directions, then the parliamentary debate is very important, impact analyses are needed, procedures must be followed and a solution suitable for Estonia in the long term must be found. Such a procedure and consideration of alternatives will, of course, take time. In a crisis situation, the Riigikogu can make decisions quickly and unanimously, as was possible in an emergency and in the adoption of an additional budget. In the current security crisis, there are successive drafts coming from the government, such as amending the Aliens Act and amending the Penal Code, where, alongside the issues of entering the service of war refugees or using the symbolism of the aggressor, there are changes in the regulation of immigration principles and hate speech. It is known in advance that these are conflicting issues in the Riigikogu, for which no urgent procedure can be expected. Why the government consistently links the necessary changes to the security crisis and other previously planned changes conflicting things in a single bill? Don't you see, as head of government, that this is the way to solve the problems of crisis and cement the gap in the differences of opinion?" Firstly, I fully agree with the questioners about the fact that the political division of society, which is happening, is in no way in the interests of Estonia's security. If we stick together, we're strong, and if we're at each other's throats, it'll definitely weaken us. But of these two laws, which are given as an example here, the Aliens Act was already in the proceedings before the war and has been in the proceedings for a very long time. Knowing how proceedings are going in the Riigikogu lately, if we had taken out this [problem] issue and come up with a new draft, nothing would have come of it again, because it would have been suspended. It was only possible to include these things in the [draft], which was already pending. As far as hostilities are concerned, Parliament has decided that the symbols of war in public space are a threat to security, even if they do not directly harm anyone. In fact, it's just like a hate speech, it's a hate speech, but it's just in a very narrower form. In my opinion, it would be right that [the hostile speech is forbidden]. I still don't understand why hate for people has to be allowed. No one takes away freedom of speech, the right to speak evilly or angryly. What about the feud? And what do we see now, for example, in the case of refugees? Certain groups want to make it feel like refugees are responsible for all our problems. It's a classic form of hate, so it was done to the Jews. You create in people's minds the idea that they are responsible for all our problems, and if they weren't, then we wouldn't have these problems either. It's like the logical conclusion that comes from there. That's why it's very dangerous. I am also chairman of the Reform Party, if I may say so, because the question was very worried to me as Prime Minister about what is going on in the Riigikogu. This bullshit doesn't honor anyone. The debate in the Riigikogu on substantive issues is crucial. The Riigikogu is a cross-section of society and represents the views that exist in our society, and political parties represent the views that voters represent. But in my opinion, the great security threat is that one party whose voters actually form a small group is blocking the entire work of the Riigikogu during the war, not only during the war, but also during the peacetime. It's just an obstruction. When we were in opposition, we used obstruction twice. Twice! And on very important occasions: one concerned this divided referendum and the other concerned the pension pillar, which we also believe was the wrong decision. However, this blocking of the work of the Riigikogu has not taken place in the past, and in my opinion this is a major problem. Is the solution that we don't come here with any drafts that this company doesn't like? This is, in my opinion, a surrender. This is not right from the point of view of society either. Of course, we are always trying to find solutions and discuss with all the political parties in the Riigikogu. But I don't quite agree that we're looking at that, uh, they're blocking it again. That's when we give this tool, that's what carries the purpose of nothing happening. The second question: "Putin, of course, is fine if we argue among ourselves about the reception of refugees and the celebration of 9 May. But it is in Estonia's interests to cooperate across political parties, and during the war, efforts should be made to create a cooperation format. How is the search for consensus between the political parties in the Riigikogu currently taking place in order to deal with the draft crisis? Do you see the need for greater cross-party cooperation? "Yes, as I said, it is certainly in the interests of the security of the Republic of Estonia that there should be no malicious obstruction in the Riigikogu and substantive debates. Of course, I cannot say how [must] hold debates in the Riigikogu, but I, for my part, have wanted to build a cross-party consensus. It hasn't been easy. You've been to a meeting of your own, and it turns out that the joint part is actually very difficult to find. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't try to find it. That is what we must do in any case, because these decisions concern society as a whole, not only now, but also in the longer term. Question 3: "The prospect of returning refugees to their homes is not linked to whether we are tired of helping or the enthusiasm of helpers. The current unity and willingness to help may not persist, as a large number of war refugees in Estonia clearly means additional costs, more work, tensions and conflicts in school or work environments. Solidarity must be created consciously in society. The threat to our nation state is still coming from behind the eastern border, not with incoming refugees. Are and what are government plans for strategic communication in order to create in society an understanding of why we are helping war refugees, what this means for society and what is expected of citizens in the coming months?" I absolutely agree that in the next few months this enthusiasm and benevolence may diminish, because it is precisely because there will be tensions, there will be further work. We observe [the situation] all the time, and at the moment we see no change in people's mind. Rather, our studies show that support for helping refugees in war goes up among other languages. For example, a public opinion study carried out by our Strategic Communications Department in mid-April showed that support for the reception of war refugees is on a slow growth trend, 77% of the society as a whole supported the reception of refugees. It was 79% in mid-March, 80% in late March and 81% in mid-April. When we look at the Estonian and the other languages [separately], it is even larger among the Estonian languages, remaining on 91%. It's very, very high. Support has actually increased among people in other languages as well. Solidarity must be created consciously, that is what I very much agree with. And I also very much agree that our threat is not the arrival of war refugees, who are the victims of this war, but that our threat is still from the eastern border and that we need to talk about it all the time. It must also be said that the Russian-speaking people here are not our enemies. Even if we have a different past, we have a common future and we should focus on what is our common role. It seems to me that, for example, as far as 9 May is concerned, you also had a separate question about this, we are trying to explain to the people of other languages why this form of celebration hurts the Estonian language. If, on 9 May or 10 May, Stalin had told everyone, all of Estonia, to go on with your country and do what you want, as before, we could celebrate this date as the end of the war. But since suffering began for our people, it is not a release, a victory or anything positive for us. At least the feedback from the other-language population has been that more needs to be said about it. [They] do not want to hurt anyone, [they] want to remember their loved ones; it must be understood in the same way. But [they want us to say] what is permitted and what is forbidden. For this purpose, there are also [needs] any lists of symbols that are not permitted. It kind of makes it easier. In the case of war refugees, the following are not allowed but these activities are carried out in order to make war refugees as smooth and problem-free as possible to become part of Estonian society. Of the 34000 people who have come to Estonia, there were around 5,000 people who needed accommodation from the state as of last week. Everyone else found their own place. This means that they too want to integrate into society in such a way as not to be a burden to anyone. Most of them are already happy that they have had the opportunity to escape the horrors of war. What is important is that we still see that both refugees and our own residents receive social services, children's education, language training and all these things, and our own people will not suffer in any way. Question 4: "Active information operations and the dissemination of false information are also part of the war. Facts check and disprove information take place in several publications and portals. As in the corona crisis, there are clearly new speakers in the security crisis, whose interviews and personal stories open the background of the crisis and explain the decisions made... " I see that time goes on mercilessly, so I go straight to the answer so that I can answer. [You also mentioned] that the articles are behind the tax wall. As a government, we have supported increasing the quality of both national broadcasting and private media in English and Russian, precisely because the content reaches everyone. We have also supported initiatives dealing with issues such as misinformation, fact-finding and information-influence. The Draft Supplementary Budget provides for a lower VAT rate for press publications, which should help private media to keep news important for society open on the Internet. But, of course, we are dealing with private companies, and the government has not made such rules directly. This should actually be the goal of private operators to get the right information to everyone, but we know that this may not always be the case, but the interest may also be simply to get a lot of consumers. But the media itself is talking more about misinformation and its dissemination than in the past, both in private and public channels. I think this is a positive development. Any precept we make for private media can be read in a way that restricts freedom of expression and restricts their freedom to conduct a business. I therefore hope that press publications themselves will understand that it is in everyone's interest that honest and true information is available to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U103	Good Prime Minister, there are also some specific questions for you. Kalvi Hard starts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U104	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister Kaja! I have a question about life itself and my own experience. It seems to me that the state has done something wrong or failed to do something about providing accommodation for [the refugees]. Somehow, it seems that the refugees who come here are being put in some big gatherings. Many municipalities use their empty buildings to find applications for them, receiving some money from the state. But their families, who have offered their beautiful homes or whatever [accommodation sites] free of charge, have not been contacted and have not been offered anything [by the State]. Why am I saying this? This house, where I lived five or six years ago [and located] on the beautiful edge of the Great Lakes, is also proposed for living. But no one has contacted us. God's free [we offer]! This shows that the state has failed to do anything to take advantage of the goodwill of good people. At some point, you just take the offer down because you're making sure it's not wanted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U105	We have created a separate section of the real estate portal KV24.ee to provide accommodation for Ukrainians. There everyone, including you, can write down their living space and offer it. Long-term accommodation is very much needed by the Ukrainian people who are here. The state deals with short-term accommodation: when people arrive who have nowhere to be, they are provided with accommodation for a month. But it's clear that for a year they have temporary protection and they have to find a living space. If they are registered as beneficiaries of temporary protection, all such dwellings are very welcome. There are offers on the real estate portal, you can put them up there, and they're directed to the Ukrainians, and that's where they get the information. So if anyone has anything to offer, I'm sure it's worth putting the information up there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U106	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U107	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'll ask you about that first answer. I fully agree that waving the symbol is in fact the same kind of speech as verbal speech, and if we punish one, we should punish the other. In your reply, you explained that you don't just have to give up on the obstruction, back off in front of it, accept everything the Obstruction Threats want. I totally agree with that. In fact, the Social Democratic Party has also been very critical in the fact that the Family Act and the Parenthood Act, now also the Law on accessibility of products and services, will be the subject of 300-400 amendments and the references to registered partners and all those things that may seem like a red towel will immediately disappear. This is exactly the retreat you're talking about, and it's happening in this house on a number of drafts. I would be very pleased if you would tell your ministers that in this Chamber we are prepared to hold this night hearing and to deal with these amendments and, in fact, should not go back to the obstruction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U108	Thank you. It's a Riigikogu decision. After all, we sent this bill in such a way that these subjects were inside, and the way you deal with it in the Riigikogu, of course, depends on your own procedures. It's not my place to say that. Of course, I still believe that such struggles should be accepted and that we should stand for what is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U109	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U110	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking the same question, but from another angle. You have now repeatedly stressed that you are trying to seek compromises, to cooperate with different political forces, to try to reach consensus, but that does not always work. You've brought out the reasons. But sometimes it seems that you yourself provoke conflicts in this Parliament. Let's take the same foreign law we're referring to in our inquiry. After all, you were able to bring this issue of Ukrainian workers here as a completely separate bill and deal with it quickly. You were able to link this matter to a motion of mistrust to the government or to the Prime Minister. You had these other levers, how to do this thing, not just drive over it. And now that the president has rejected it, you're going over again. You say that you will send it back to the large Chamber of Parliament in its unaltered state. Why are you provoking this behaviour of certain opposition forces with your behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U111	How is this a provocation? That's interesting! [Hoops] commitment to trust is crossing, total crossing from all debates, amendments, everything. It's a crossing. But it has to be done when obstruction is unreasonable and important things simply stand behind it. This is rather an exceptional measure precisely because, if you use it all the time, there is no opportunity to hold a debate at all. So there's nothing I can do to answer your reproach. How is this provocation if we support what we've come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U112	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I agree very much with this debate. Perhaps just to think for the next time that the debate is greatly helped by the fact that, when the Prime Minister comes before Parliament and makes a political statement on an additional budget, which is a very important matter, we can also ask questions and debate. That'd be good. I listened to your speech on the extra budget, and you stressed several times that it is a war[time] budget, no such good terms, and that let's not rock the boat, let's focus on national defence spending. But I would point out that coping with people, which this extra budget in some places, yes, is a little bit of a concern, but not particularly, all this cost, is also a security issue. If we look at France, the extreme right-wing forces there almost won the first round of the elections. We have an election coming up, too. People will be upset, and we have political forces who can play with this subject. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U114	Thank you. First of all, there has never been a [score] issue in the transfer of the budget, because MEPs have not yet been able to examine the budget and the questions are always at first reading. In all other political statements, we have always promised questions. And I very much agree that there must be a debate. Now for people's livelihood. Indeed, it is the price increase that worries everyone. Understandably, as I said in my speech, we have put this additional budget together in a short time and its focus is very clearly on defence issues, protection of the population, as well as energy security and expenditure on refugees, in addition to raising the threshold for coping, precisely in order for the most vulnerable to receive assistance. This is what Helmen Hunter has always proposed to do, for example, and that is what we are doing now. Of course, we will not solve all the problems with this additional budget. It is very difficult to wrestle with price increases, because we actually have two things together: high inflation on the one hand and a likely recession on the other, which comes with the effects of war. It's the worst combo. If you have high inflation, there are two tools for it: one is that you cut the budget, don't overheat the economy, and the other is that you raise interest rates. However, when the recession and high inflation coincide, the same tools cannot be used. That's why it's complicated. But, of course, we need to see how people can handle it. Our goal has always been to increase incomes more than the rise in prices. It's been that way so far. Now, this is probably not the case for the first year, because many very bad factors coincide. But, yes, with this extra budget, we cannot solve the problems of the whole world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U115	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U116	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Indeed, it is to be commended that the limits of living will be raised. This could have been raised already in January, when amendments were tabled, and this would have helped people to cope with the high price increases associated with this energy crisis. But I'm glad it's happening now. It's really worth the credit. When I asked you in Question Time whether this EUR 50 grant would extend to people with limited, partial or completely inability to work, you did not know how to answer. Can you tell me now whether it is only for old-age pensioners and children or whether it is also for people with limited working capacity and who have completely lost their ability to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U117	Thank you. It should extend to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U118	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U119	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! On 23 April, ERR had news of the state mapping empty houses and apartments for war refugees. So those who have not used their apartment or house for a long time may receive a call from the State asking for it to be rented out to refugees. According to Chancellor Mändmaa, the state is constantly searching for more quarters. Among other things, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has mapped out 26000 houses and apartments with electricity bills indicating that they are unlikely to be used continuously. Am I right to understand that the state has engaged in illegal surveillance against 26000 people in Estonia, spying on their lifestyles? Who gave the power companies that right? How has the Ministry of Social Affairs been able to retrieve these very personal data? It's a matter of private property immunity. The Constitution states that private property is untouchable. In addition, the electricity consumption contract is also a confidential agreement between the two parties. At the same time, Chancellor Mändmaa says that these people will receive calls from the state with a desire to rent out real estate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] (The President: "Time! ') As a next step, if the number of refugees increases (President: "Mrs Helme!") we are about to attack our property and violate our constitutional rights (President: "Hello!") And take our real estate away from us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U120	No, you get it right and you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U121	Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to fit in one minute. Right now [on the question] went 1 minute and 30 seconds, it's a little too much beyond the agreed time. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U122	Good manager! Sire! Solidarity during the war, an excellent title. But how does the Prime Minister comment that we are all Russia's neighbouring countries, but if you look at how much Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian has contributed to Ukraine's assistance in terms of per capita GDP, then Estonia is the world leader, Lithuania is the third largest and Latvia is the seventeenth place between us? This is an analysis of Kiel's [World] Institute of Economics for the first month of war. Where is this solidarity? The difference between us and Latvia in terms of prosperity is not seventeen times. Is it solidarity, or is this some kind of solitude in the case of your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U123	Thank you. Each country makes its own decisions, each country's government decides for itself how they help Ukraine and how much they can help Ukraine. We have decided to help Ukraine as much as possible, because it is a matter of our own defence that Putin does not win this war, but that Ukraine wins. The same aggressor threatens us. I can't comment on other countries' decisions, I can comment on my decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U124	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Sire! I have a question from this point of view that, as we know, we are abandoning Russian gas and [doing this] so that this war cannot continue. But how do you feel about the information that we're making every effort here, but from Ukraine, gas pipes run through? Is Ukraine using this gas, or has it, by analogy, given up these gas supplies in order not to finance the Russian war machine? I have a request that you respond when you know exactly, in order not to remain in a foolish position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U126	Thank you. No, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U127	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The Ukrainian war refugees have been given immediate kindergarten places, free hobby clubs and hobbies education, free train rides, bus rides, cinemas and water centres. This is only part of the benefits that have been granted to them. Compared to our own people who can't get all this free day care, you can't go to free cinemas and water centres, you can't take a free bus or train or anything about these benefits, explain what this solidarity is about. Where are our own people? Where is equal treatment here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U129	Thank you. What the state is doing is that the state treats everyone exactly equally. We have temporary protection for people who, in accordance with European rules, are entitled to the benefits they receive. These things that you refer to in local governments will decide on the kindergarten place fee and how many places there are and who will be there. Similarly, private operators offering services decide which prices they charge. I don't know, but I just somehow feel like you're jealous. These people are coming here, they have nothing at all. They don't have... [[Someone's talking in the hall.]] Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U130	Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U131	In short, yes, I understand it made you feel very strong that you're gonna scream about it, but I'm gonna stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U132	Kert Kingo, what's a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U133	Thanks for the opportunity. I would ask the President of the sitting to remind the Prime Minister that he has come here to answer the question, not to read morality or put words in his mouth from this remote control, or to start making psychological assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U134	All the executives here all the time have said that the questioner asks and the answer is answered. What kind of question is asked, and what kind of answer is given is exactly every questioner and answerer's own decision. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question that is essentially a request to clarify the answer to the question of Mr Helme. Where, however, do these electricity consumption data for 26000 households, [for those who allegedly do not use their own apartment or house or other housing at all times] come from? Who has authorized such pursuits? Where has such data been taken from, and what is it planned to do with them in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U136	Thank you. I assume that this data comes from the power generators selling electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U137	Good Prime Minister, no further questions. Thank you! I will open negotiations, and first Riina Sikkut will receive the floor on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. I admit that the questions were long and thorough. I would have expected just as thorough answers. For my part, I thank and understand that the government will undoubtedly make an effort. It will also work with an additional budget in the current security situation to improve our defence capabilities and to deal with refugees. At the same time, as far as the work of the Riigikogu and its submission to the Obstruction are concerned, we see that, in fact, the ministers agree with the amendments made to the drafts on which one party has put forward 300-400 proposals. The Minister not only agrees with the amendment at the committee meeting, but he also publicly explains in the press why it was reasonable to do so. I'm very much asking the government to keep one line, and the fact that we don't respond to obstruction threats could be such a pervasive line. However, this does not concern draft decisions with long-term implications and solutions to crisis needs. They could be kept separate. There is no doubt that in the case of the Aliens Act, a procedural victory is possible, but I am not sure whether it has been considered. In fact, a clear line could be maintained that if the members of the Riigikogu are asked to process the additional budget quickly and keep the focus on crisis measures only, rather than extending it to other topics, the government itself will do the same. Secondly, the issue of cross-party cooperation. Yeah, I know it's hard, but you have to keep looking for the format. And even if everyone isn't ready to cooperate, there is a big part. In this Chamber, no doubt, I think, it is also possible to find this two-thirds support. The subject of war refugees, this third question on strategic communication, so that society has an understanding of why we are helping refugees, how we are helping them and what it means for society. The questions put in this Chamber also reflect that there is no such knowledge. It is necessary to explain publicly who gets the kindergarten place and whether the refugees will benefit from it, because, despite inciting [aversion], reluctance would arise anyway. On the one hand, these issues reflect the lag of the last 30 years in our social sector. If very little money has been allocated to social welfare all the time from the budget and the deficit is high, and the dissatisfaction of local people is high, then it is understandable that this weakness will be amplified during the crisis. There is concern about finding accommodations and how generous the refugees are somewhere. Understandably, it causes resentment, and that is what needs to be explained. This needs to be clarified several times, including confirmation that all Estonian people will also receive the services they need and their access will not deteriorate, and clarification of the steps taken by the government to ensure this. Answer to question four. Of course, we do not want to censor the media or engage in private media, but this clear message from the government, how to recognise false information, could be read to everyone during the crisis. The question is also that if the performance of private media depends on the remuneration that is charged, for example, for personal stories made with the military leadership of the Defence Forces and the like, I agree, these are good stories, then [should we consider] whether it is possible to create a compensation mechanism. It could at least be discussed and considered. You can't just put it on the conscience of media publications to try to meet you during the war. Maybe somebody's gonna make it. But I think that as a society, we have a common interest back there so much that maybe this can also be solved with compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U139	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U140	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Kaja Kallas! [[Laughing.]] I looked at what's going on in this hall on the big screen of the group, and the old man, as I am... By the way, thank you, Liberals, for mocking me two weeks ago, how I'm an old man and how I can't do it in bed anymore and so on. Some of them put out a poster with Russian letters. Thank you very much. You showed how tolerant you are, how understanding you are, how understanding you are, how able you are to hold a substantive discussion. Well, that's great! Who told me to shove my teeth down my throat and who said, I don't know what to do. Oh, great! This [was] said to be evasive. But I looked in the group at what was going on in the hall, and I just laughed. Old man, as I am, the pioneer team came to mind. Pioneers whisk and politely ask all sorts of fine questions, and the pioneer driver receptively answers them about Lenin's joy, how good the government is, and how bad the capitalists are. If they weren't in front of the fucking capitalists, we'd have communism and then we'd be fine. But look, they want to do the obstruction, and it's just unprecedented. By the way, it is also unprecedented for the Riigikogu to vote in favour of breaking the law today. This is unprecedented! There hasn't been such a thing here in the past. And this is the result of Kaja Kallas, or the great road-roller tactics of my government. It's the banana republic in its purest form. But we're coming to the question. The pioneer team was over when we came to the hall and started asking substantive questions. And then it turns out that we need to be moralized, we need to be put in place, we need to be made clear how bad we are, how stupid we are, how we don't understand what solidarity is. People come from war, they've lost everything. Yeah, we get that. We understand that! But we also understand that Estonia is a small country and the people of Estonia live poor. I had a meeting with the crowd on Saturday. You know, I had tears in my throat for a while. How poor people live and how retired people literally cut bread with rope is depressing. It's just terrible! And then they come here with an extra budget and they hit 250 million or a lot of it, 270 million, well, there's no big difference, oversized to the contingent of war refugees. Too big! Estonia is not able to receive so many people. Estonia is not able to guarantee equally, after all, solidarity is a topic of solidarity for its people and for the refugees of war, all that both its people and the refugees of war need. I don't hate war refugees. I don't hate anyone. I'm not a putinist. I think that in this Chamber I am the one person who knows Russia almost best as a historian as well as the experience of the Soviet army and the experience of serving in Russia. I think I know Russia, I know Russian people, I know what country Russia is. I know what country the Soviet Union was. I have no illusions about that. None! But to flood Estonia irresponsibly with a number of people beyond our control is a crime against the Estonian people. I declare, quite clearly and unambiguously, now: any introduction of war refugees must be stopped on the day. We're full. If we want to provide them with quality services... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U141	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U142	... which would also be equivalent to our own people, it must be completed on a daily basis. Another very important issue. The Ukrainians are fighting for us too, that is clear to all of us. But we're gonna let the hundreds of thousands of thousands of people get across the Russian border and we're gonna put a comma in it, or there's gonna be hundreds of thousands of people again, like you liberals, with your, well, I can't tell you, half-brained, able to read out of it, people with brand-new Ukrainian passports. The United States of America doesn't do that, by the way. The United States has refused to accept Ukrainian citizens from Eastern Ukraine for security reasons. The United States of America is, of course, a trivial little piece of state with a non-existent army, not like Estonia, which is a large and powerful, decisive country in the world. But we let people come here whose background we don't know whose goals we don't know whose manipulation we don't know by thousands. Why? I don't know why. I do not know why for decades the Reform Party has been obstructing the improvement of Estonia's security, why we have the development of the Defence Forces all the time like a stump stuck behind it. Now we're talking about how much money we gave them. But what this money goes for, we don't know yet. Chicks are read in the fall. The issue of war refugees is such a serious issue that it cannot be viewed with such a fua-faa-faa-surrection that they have lost everything and we must help them. We must help exactly as much as we can, and by now, this measure is obviously complete. Ending up with solidarity: if we do not put the border on this, we will be shattered by this solidarity with the adoption of war refugees at one point. We will develop a triangular society, sharp and poisoned by contradictions. On the one hand, [we] have had people who have been here since Soviet times and many of whom have been naturalised, passed the Estonian language exam, applied for citizenship or a grey passport. Then [we] will have new ones who will be granted all kinds of privileges, so-called Ukrainians, of whom at least 80% are Russians. And then there are Estonians who will have to pay for all this. It is a poisoned triangle that cannot end in universal solidarity with one another's love. I have a suspicion, of course, that the current government will refuse to acknowledge this reality, but I will draw attention to it from this remote control. We need solidarity in society, and the path that the current government has chosen does not lead us to a model of solidarity in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U144	Good manager! Sire! The point of my speech is about the same as that of Mardi, but unlike Mardi and many of you, I have heard for two hours this morning about the content of the additional budget of the country in discussions with ministers. So I have a little more information right now [than you], but of course less than the Prime Minister. I asked the Prime Minister if we have not gone too far when we look at the assistance given in the first month of the war, we see that as Estonia we are the top per capita and the Latvians are the 17th most among the countries of the world, the Lithuanians are the third most. At the same time, Russia is our common neighbour. If one boy is overachieved by an evil boy and the neighbor is modest, don't brag and so on, what do you think that big, bad boy might think? But that's it. Yes, Kaja Kallas said that we have given everything possible. But Latvians and Lithuanians, especially Latvians, have not given. On the contrary, they've been modest. Remember how the German Secretary of Defense said a while ago that he didn't even have one. But what is Germany and what is Estonia? But that's it. According to the current budget, we have 50,000 refugees by Midsummer Day. 50,000! Let us now see what has been pointed out in this budget. For example, I see that there is EUR 2 million for psychosocial support and mental health. For years, I have been helping women's support centers, with their limited money from the roof, to keep a psychologist who would come and support these children with a little bit of a psychologist's eye to those who have been driven out of the house. And now they're giving $2 million to the Ukrainians who came here. The psychological support for refugees is 0.41 million, with 36 million social benefits. Income support for local governments is very interesting: 21834 households receive a total of 28.57 million, while 10275 Ukrainian households receive 22.24 million and 11559 Estonian households receive 6.34 million. One such detail. Many opposition parties remember how the last budget was drawn to all the proposals: from 1.2 million to 360 medical nurses, or 4 million to receive minimum wages for rescuers, or to children's education of interest and so on. No money, no money. That's a lot of money now. Let's see what's flown on the military at 280 million defense ministers' accounts this morning. And now, there are 243 [million] for those Ukrainian war refugees who have come, but actually there are quite a few more coming here, and I received 267 million in total. So it's 280 plus 262. You remember that Estonia was absolutely the biggest aider of Ukraine in the world per capita. Far from that, [our aid has been] 0.8% of GDP. 0.8%! For the United States, [this indicator] was 0.04, for Lithuania 0.05, and for Poland in second place 0.17. This is the report by the Kiel Institute of World Economics on the first month of war. And when the Prime Minister said yes, solidarity though, but Estonia gives everything away from itself... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U145	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U146	Yeah, I should. And the bell, too! Thank you. So I don't see much solidarity here. You must help, but you must not forget your people. And that's what worries me and not just me. Klaus Bouillon, Minister of the Interior of Saarland, said on March 22, [in Saarland] there are a million kerbs that our measure is full. They're full! But the measure was that, until March 21, 90 refugees arrived in their millions of states a day, but 300 arrived on March 22. [Then] Minister of the Interior, Bouillon, said that we were full. It's been a long time. So, in fact, when helping it, you should ask yourself when our measure is complete. Are we really helping ourselves to be crippled by rejecting our people? But, of course, all of this we will not understand until later, it is too soon now. The National Audit Office is not yet operating, but these reports will be coming soon. Yes, indeed, the report by the Kiel Institute of World Economics is already ready, quickly, for the first month of war, and there are some other reports that cannot be discussed here. These are international reports. But what effect does this great helping at world record level have on Estonia's own people and the Estonian state and, above all, on Estonia as a nation state? That's all that matters. Yes, the Ukrainians are coming, but most of them have gone to Russian school. Most of it's from Russian school. Of course, all kinds of people have come here, but at least we don't have an overview of it either. So solidarity is a great thing, and thank you to the accountant social democrats for formulating it, but I do not see solidarity here in any way. Although it could be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U147	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This question has, in my opinion, gone into a relatively bad position with the interpretation of this question and these last speeches. That's why I thought I'd come and tell you a little bit. I recall that when the major battles began in Ukraine, the political party presidents visited him at the invitation of the Prime Minister and we talked. The Prime Minister had one appeal: let us try to be a little united and try not to create conflicts. Very politely, but already at the time, the Chairman of the EKRE expressed everything we are about to hear in this Chamber and what we heard from Mart Helme and what we heard today in the comments on the additional budget from Martin Helme: all Ukrainians who have come here are bad, villains and criminals. It's kind of embarrassing to listen to. If it is usually the case that the Estonian state moves ahead and it is possible for the people to come after it, then what is involved in helping and supporting Ukrainians, helping war refugees, as a rule helping women and children, in this situation, I say, the people have walked ahead and the country has dragged in. This has been done by the Estonian people. The Estonian people have shown their support to those who die for us, those who fight for us. This is not done simply because we want to at exactly this point, precisely at this point, if the worst of all should happen to us here in Estonia, so that we can be treated the same way. It is very sad to hear Estonia get smaller. I say that Estonia can manage to help every war refugee, every Ukrainian war refugee who has come here. Estonia is not a powerless, weak and helpless state, but a very normal, strong and decent country that can do it. I agree that the other half has not been completed. I think it's unfair to come here and talk about refugees being bad, Ukrainians being bad. On the one hand, it is said that, yes, a little bit we really condemn Russia's aggression, but on the other hand, these same war refugees and their situation are being beaten from this remote control. Very embarrassing. Very embarrassing! They are not the ones responsible, but the government of the Republic of Estonia has failed to do its job. The Ukrainians are fleeing the war, they need support and help. But the government has failed to do so, that the Estonian person needs help and support today. Prime Minister, that was all I really wanted to say with my question. What about supporting the Estonian people in the event of this high inflation? People who get into trouble, people who get into trouble, they have problems and problems. Usually populist forces are very easy to manipulate, manipulate, or manipulate, these people. We saw the French presidential election. There, unfortunately, was not a Ukrainian issue and war on the first topic, France has its own things and its own logics. There was the first, the main theme of the cost of living, how people are doing and how they manage. Indeed, the problem was that Le Pen was relatively close to Macron in the first round, relatively close. We have elections ahead, prices are rising, the situation is getting worse. We've got it all figured out. I am saying that people's livelihoods are what we see today in this Chamber, we are hearing this, and this is a very direct security issue, and this is just the beginning. That is why I am very concerned that we will have an additional budget that will in no way help the Estonian person to cope with [better]. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U149	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U150	In the autumn, we will arrive at a situation where cuts will take place. The cuts in the sense that prices have become more expensive. This additional budget does not provide grants to universities, vocational schools, wage subsidies, and we will see how cuts are actually taking place. It affects a lot of people and hits a lot of families very painfully. Ultimately, it is a security risk, it is a security risk, because coping, I stress once again, coping and security are closely linked. Unfortunately, we have political forces in the Estonian Parliament that take advantage of it and use it very, very evilly, and ultimately not against these people, because the focus of this debate is going to the wrong place. I'm afraid there's gonna be a fight at the end of the day, as always, even though we really should have a debate on how to help these people. The 19% increase in prices basically means that if you get 100 euros of salary money, 19 euros of it will be lost. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money! For pensioners, too, it is a very large amount of money that the cost of living eats. [Therefore] we really need to increase certain subsidies so that people can cope, but this problem is not solved by subsidies. This problem is not solved by subsidies. This problem needs to be resolved from this perspective so that people can live with their wages. People need to be able to live out of their pension, to cope with it without the majority of them in need of benefits. It is a question of dignity and principle. This, unfortunately, was not addressed by this supplementary budget. My appeal to all colleagues is: let us not make Estonia smaller! Estonia is not a small, helpless and powerless state. Estonia can support Ukrainians; we can support them militaryly; we can support them when they come here. But we must also be able to support our people just as much or even more. It is not only Ukrainians who need help and support and security and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U151	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U152	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good answer for questioning! Good heirs and the people who follow us either through your tube in the verbatim, or you will look at the Riigikogu website! This association of words, 'war and solidarity', I would not stop here so much at war, but rather at solidarity and I would approach it from another perspective. Having a little bit of time now, maybe from 2014? Each week in front of the Russian embassy, the idea has been only one: to show solidarity with this country and with the people. Yeah, I remember how people used to say, "Oh, there's a madin, there's Maidan, maybe there's blood in there." I said you're kidding, that three liters of blood we're picking up here, flying it to Ukraine would get a lot harder, and we're doing what the little people are capable of. It is not very capable of showing this solidarity, but at least the consular services know what is here. Now I would perhaps like to pay attention to the fact that we are in solidarity with everyone. Although in some respects our solidarity has subsided a little. As President of the Hong Kong Support Group myself, I would like to say here that this Sunday, when we have Mother's Day and when the whole progressive world marks the end of World War II on European soil, that is, on 8 May, the election of the CEO of the government will take place in Hong Kong. They were organised democratically in the past, but since this special administrative area has now come under the influence of China, I will talk about some numbers. Previously, a nation could be chosen, but now, instead of 7.4 million Hong Kongers, a 1462 electoral body has been formed with the approval of the Chinese Central Authority. The electoral body of our President has multiplied because the number of municipalities was [low], but, well, let's imagine these proportions. Another example of the number that can contribute to [Hong Kong] local politics has already been reduced by 97%. Perhaps in 2016, members of the electoral body had the right to elect who had 247000 but are now drawn to 7800. Today I saw that we had representatives of the People's Republic of China around here, and of course they can't hear it anymore, but their embassy will hear it. I think we are not, and we should not be quite satisfied with [the situation in Hong Kong]. I call on the Riigikogu, as far as possible and still politically correct, not to recognise the elected leader in this way. Then it could just be the decision of the Board of Directors of the People's Republic of China that this guy is the king around here, right? But to talk about this, this is an election, this isn't [right]. So we must also show solidarity with those [others] who are struggling today. It's not just war that's supposed to inspire us. At this end, I say one simple thought from Hando Runnel: whoever wants war is a madman who hopes peace is a fool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U153	Kalle Grünthal, please! [[Kalle Grünthal asks for more time.]] Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk today about solidarity during the war, and a question has been made about this. I was wondering what the word "solidarity" meant. It turns out that solidarity is understood as unity based on common interests, objectives, norms and sympathies. Basically, it refers to the social links that bind people together. If we look at the concept of solidarity that is applied in Estonia, I would say that solidarity is really only applied here on the basis of sympathies. To make the picture clear, I'll give you a very trivial example. What do you think of a family head who goes into a tavern and buys out all the people there, but then comes home and has an empty bread cabinet, children hungry and uneaten? It is not solidarity; it is sympathy for other people to show how good I am. But home problems don't care. Why am I talking about this, this bad example? Because this solidarity in quotes is only expressed by the current government in relation to Ukrainian refugees. Why are we, the Estonian people, left here in this part of the orphan who has no bread to take from the closet? For example, disability benefits are less than EUR 300 and people have to cope with this. It's the same with children's education. We don't have any money for that. But our children also need to be supported. In my opinion, the worst example I have ever experienced was when a disabled person was forced to move out of a rental dwelling because the owner found it more useful to rent refugees from Ukraine. They found him at the Mustamäe Social Services. And when he asked for transport so that his few items would be taken there, no more than two or three bus stops, the social workers replied that we did not provide transport services, you have to manage on your own. In fact, this woman was a bit of a limp. At the same time, we find transport thousands of miles away to bring back the war refugees there. This shows that only Ukrainian refugees, not their own people, are sympathetic to the government. This is not the solidarity that the government is now showing. Today I told our waitress, Kaja Kallas, that we are making an effort here to abandon Russian gas, and I asked whether it was true that Ukraine still consumes Russian gas. He couldn't answer. He said he didn't know. Here is a two-sided view of the matter: we are in solidarity with Ukraine, we are taking these risks, but Ukraine, if this information is true, but who am I asking, if not Kaja Kallas? just, still consumes [Russian gas], then I feel kind of squirmed. But that's it. When the war began, Kaja Kallas convened the political party presidents and proposed that we should no longer touch on domestic sensitivities during this war, including the COVID issue and the subject of masking. I was wondering why such a demand. But gradually, the great plan of the liberalists came out, which has not been implemented so far: to fill Estonia with people in other languages. Fortunately, the law of foreigners [the bill], which has been done extremely hastily and in violation of procedural rules, was still being held, but I have heard that it is being tried by force, i.e. by means of a road roller tactic. What is its purpose? The aim is for local governments to be able to select all those persons who are permanently registered in Estonia. The sadness of the matter is that the European Union is moving in exactly the same direction: a directive is being adopted that gives permission or, rather, establishes a procedure in which the residents of the Member States who are based in Estonia can participate in the Estonian elections. Sounds like an innocent line. But the consequences are that if a foreign language nation is elected somewhere in the local government, they will take decisions that are acceptable to them, according to their own interests. I will give you the most radical example that it is decided to build a mosque somewhere, because this is the way the council decided and the council does not include the Estonian-speaking people or the people who have lived their whole lives here. Solidarity, the concept I introduced at first, is that it is based on sympathy. Unfortunately, our government has left our own people in the role of an orphan. This war propaganda and the difficult fight that Ukraine is currently fighting against Russia is being used to promote and promote the ideas of the Reform Party, and I cannot help but say that Kaja Kallas also displays his own profile on foreign media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U155	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Prime Minister would like a final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U156	Honourable Riigikogu! I wasn't planning on speaking, but [doing this because] what's being pulled out of my mouth is absolutely unbelievable. People who poison society by enmitying the war refugees who have come here are calling on others not to poison society! It creates this completely cognitive dissonance. Secondly, there was the claim that the Ukrainians who have come here are actually 80% Russians. I wonder how it is controlled, and how such a claim can even be true? I want to stress that the government has brought no one here. This claim should not be made. People have come here themselves, people have come here through various refugee organisations. These people are running from war. The war that we see on screens through images, everything else, thanks to the possibilities of the information society, we see the horrors that are being committed there. If during World War II and after that, when people fled from Estonia to Sweden, someone would have taken their passport there and said that, well, the Estonian passport is, but in fact, you are Russians and we will not let you in, what would it have looked like? Is it really that our people have been helped elsewhere, and that if we again needed [such help], we would be helped again, there would be no role? I think it's wrong to say that our own people are all living in poverty. Absolute poverty has declined over the years. As Lauri Läänemets said in her speech, a very good speech, although I do not agree with everything that we are not so bad. On the contrary, we should be proud that we have grown as a society to the point that we have become a donor in need and that we can help people who are in trouble. Of course, we must also help our people, but they do not contradict us in any way. One thing to understand is that during COVID, for example, our accommodations were struggling because they had no turnover and had to go bankrupt. But today, those who provide services to [the refugees] and thus employ our people are the same Estonian companies. [Enterprises and] The cooperation of Estonian people actually works. So in this sense, all of this is not so bad or tragic. The fact that the people of Estonia have helped Ukrainian refugees reflects that what we see in Ukraine will tear open the wounds that we ourselves have. I would also like to say that I will have [Kalle Grünthali] examined the claims that I have heard this many times, that someone was evicted from the apartment and hosted by Ukrainian war refugees. All those times I've checked these claims, when someone said yes, I know and I've been told and the source hasn't been true. And really, I haven't heard of this case either, but I'm looking into it. I find that hard to believe, knowing as a lawyer, how difficult it is to lift someone out of somewhere, even if it is not a disabled person, but a person who does not want to leave, even though he may not have the right to be on this surface. So that's why all these claims are to hunt down [people] in order to cause animosity against Ukrainian war refugees, to make anger that something is being taken away from our people. So far, no service has got worse for the people of Estonia simply because we are also helping Ukrainians, Ukrainian war refugees who have come here and 79% of whom are women and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U157	We have completed this inquiry and have exhausted this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U158	We will take the next item, which is the third item: the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Raimond Kaljulaid, Riina Sikkut, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske, Eduard Odinets, Lauri Läänemets and Helmen Küti about the impact of Russian aggression on the Estonian economy. As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Lauri of the West Forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We have submitted an inquiry on "The impact of Russian aggression on the Estonian economy." At the time of the inquiry, on 14 March, we also presented the facts known to us here, how much this war and the situation created by it may affect the Estonian economy, but I suspect that this data has already been updated and that is why I will not read them here. I hope that we will hear more precise figures from the Minister for Finance. But the fact is, warfare is affecting. The whole war situation or situation that is taking place in Ukraine, which will ultimately affect the whole of Europe and the whole world, we entered on the surface that we already had problems with expensive electricity and high energy prices. This, in turn, began to have an impact on the economy, and from there, one might say, record high inflation in European terms has taken off. The 19% increase in prices is one of the biggest in decades. For some reason not known to me, inflation in Estonia is significantly higher than in most of Europe and also in the Baltics. I hope that maybe we can get some idea of why this is happening. But the war is affecting. It also affects our lives here in Estonia, affects jobs, affects the development of entrepreneurship, different sectors in different ways. That is why we want to know the following from the Minister for Finance. On the basis of the information known to the government, what is the economic impact on Estonia caused by Russia's military activities, as well as sanctions? How does this affect employment, price levels and public revenues and costs? Of course [only] can the impact be assessed as much as can be predicted at present. Which sectors of the economy have been most affected by the war, and what impact has it had on these sectors? How does this affect employment in these sectors? What support and compensatory measures have the government provided or intends to provide for additional support for the affected enterprises? We see how the people of Estonia are doing right now. Of course, it is crucial how businesses are doing, because ultimately we should manage in society in such a way that everyone can cope with their pay, people do not suffer [worse], and we do not need to pay subsidies to people, especially this EUR 50 emergency support, which is planned and which is 4 euros and 17 cents for one month. Rather, a person should receive a decent salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U160	Reply by the Minister of Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good heirs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, it has been a month and a half since this question was made. In the meantime, the most recent economic forecast, which is slightly, as far as can be predicted in the current circumstances, will also assess in more detail the impact that Russia's new full-scale attacks may have on the Estonian economy as well. So I think there are more grounds for replying now than would have been some time ago. I'm going to the questions now. The first question to the respondents was: "What is the economic impact on Estonia caused by Russia's military activities, but also by sanctions, based on information known to the government, how does it affect employment, price levels and the state's revenues and costs? " The war started by Russia in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed in response to it affect the Estonian economy in many ways. Firstly, this impact reaches us through direct and concrete economic ties. Secondly, it reaches Estonia through more indirect effects in the global economy, i.e. through what is happening in the global economy. And [the third] comes to [this] us by a very complex measure of general fear of war or an increase in uncertainty. Unfortunately, this affects confidence in Estonia itself, the confidence of our own companies, for example, regarding the adoption of investment decisions, but it also affects the wider confidence in Estonia regarding possible foreign investments by foreign investors. [First] specific economic links. They relate to sanctions, but not necessarily and only to sanctions, but also to the unwillingness of companies themselves to do business with companies in Russia and Belarus and the areas occupied by Russia. As a result, exports from both Estonia and other Western countries to the east will be significantly reduced or completely disrupted in relation to these countries. Similarly, there are limited or sanctioned imports of products and services from these regions, which in turn forces companies to seek new, alternative sources of supply. These may be the most direct economic connections. The second part certainly concerns the effects of war refugees, which, by their very nature, form part of the specific economic effects, which were quite thoroughly dissected in the course of the previous inquiry. It is certainly worth mentioning the impact of refugees on the Estonian economy. We have now received over 34000 people, most of whom are women and children, who have been offered for war. Of course, their economic impact depends heavily or, among other things, on how long they are forced to stay in Estonia. We know that most of them want to return to Ukraine as soon as possible. However, it is inevitably the case that the first attack will entail additional costs for the Estonian state due to the refugee war, especially given that it is about 40% minors, small children. As a rule, adults who have come to Estonia for war want to find their own application as soon as possible. They want to go to work. True, they may not all find the right job in the Estonian economy immediately. Therefore, in our latest economic forecast, analysts and forecasters from the Ministry of Finance have also found that, with the influence of refugees, unemployment is likely to increase first, in particular through unemployment among the refugees themselves. At the same time, however, it is the case that finding employment for war refugees in certain sectors alleviates labour shortages, and that unemployment will ease among the war refugees themselves in the medium to long term. This means, in turn, that if we look at the purely economic impact or the impact on tax revenue, then refugees who have found work and want to go to work will start to generate tax revenue for the state if they look at this situation from a purely tax-based perspective. Listening to the previous debate, it seemed to me that often, I do not know whether on purpose or for any other reason, it would be overlooked and it would not concern the heirs, but the Members sitting on the other floor in a diametric way, who also asked a number of questions here, that the economy would also receive a positive boost from the additional demand that we see from the refugees in Estonia. This means that they are currently forced to consume both goods and services in Estonia. We also know that many of them have come to family members who have been in Estonia before. And often those who have already been here have earned at least the average salary in Estonia. While so far these people sent a large part of the income earned in Estonia to Ukraine, they are now in a situation where they consume this income with their family who came to Estonia here. It is very difficult to say how great the exact effect of [such behaviour] is, it would be beautifully speculative, but the effect is in any case there. I also briefly touch for confidence, because, as has been said, a deterioration in confidence will inevitably have an impact on the economy. This means that companies are more cautious when making investment decisions, but also foreign tourists, for example, are more cautious when visiting Estonia and consumers are also more cautious when making decisions about buying durable goods. This is not only about Estonia, but in Europe as a whole, the confidence of the private sector has deteriorated since the outbreak of war or, let us say, the intensification of war. Our region in general does not differ in any way from the trends in the rest of Europe; the war affects the whole of Europe. On the basis of all these factors, the Ministry of Finance has predicted that this year we can see not only a cooling down of the economy, but a fall in GDP of 1%. If the full-scale military activity in Ukraine had not started again on 24 February, our economic growth forecast would have been 3%. That means the effects of the war are still pretty great. Unemployment growth is projected to rise to 7.2% this year, which means we have up to 20,000 more unemployed than we would have had without the impact of the war. Together with the additional war refugees, unemployment can increase by even more than 8% over the year. Speaking of unemployment, I also refer to these figures that the number of registered unemployed people has increased by 2600 as of last week compared to the time of intensifying military activities. At the same time, about 1900 war refugees have already found work in Estonia since two weeks ago [watching]. I'll make sure time goes ruthlessly. The second question: "Which sectors of the economy are most affected by the war, and in what way are these sectors affected? How does this affect employment in these sectors of the economy? "As described in the answer to the previous question, this impact is multi-angled, in many ways it manifests itself as a decrease in in the number of kilometres, the impact of the global economy, also as an import inflation, which is likely to also affect interest growth in the near future, and the cooling of economic activity in other countries, through which the total impact on the economy as a whole will be achieved. Very specific sectors of the economy are perhaps even difficult to highlight, so that I do not do so. The positive demand for additional products and services consumed by refugees will certainly have an impact on the retail trade, on the provision of accommodation services, and also on the rental market in the long term. Again, it may be difficult to make a single assessment of the effects of the labour market across specific sectors of the economy, but it is likely that war refugees are still the fastest to alleviate labour shortages in lighter jobs. This is also because [other] places require a very good level of knowledge of the Estonian language, but it takes them some time to learn the language at the necessary level. Now let's talk about exports. Our exports to Belarus and Russia, but also to Ukraine, have not been based on one sector. The most exported industrial equipment, as well as food products, has been various services, including transport services and business services, certainly also affecting tourism. For these services and products, exports are currently not necessarily directly limited to sanctions, but rather, as I said in the answer to the first question, to such indirect factors. Perhaps businesses and people themselves will now refrain from carrying out services and activities with Russia, even in sectors where there are no direct sanctions. Imports from Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, in particular, included oil products and gas, or energy products, as well as metals, wood and fertilisers, like the rest of the world. Of these products, imports of metals from Russia and Belarus and imports of timber products from Belarus are directly limited by sanctions. This means that the construction sector, as well as the industrial sector, is most directly affected. And, of course, the rise in agricultural commodities, but also in energy and fuel prices, will in principle have a direct or indirect impact on all sectors of the economy. Indeed, this latest economic forecast takes account of the trans-economic effects. I've been talking a little bit about the increase in unemployment. However, we have not predicted by sector that in which sector how many additional unemployed might be added. The last question: "What support and compensatory measures has the government envisaged or is planning to provide for additional support for the affected companies? "In particular, this support is certainly linked to providing support for the search for new export markets, because this change is not short-term, it is not a matter for companies to expect to return to the previous situation at some point. That is not the case, it is a fundamental change. This means that alternative markets need to be found, and for that the state is certainly prepared to offer its support. This concerns the finding of target markets, export services and financing measures previously known through EAS. It is clear that the need for these services is likely to remain higher than usual. I am also pointing out here that the excise duty on diesel specifically labelled in relation to the additional budget will be reduced to the minimum level in the European Union. It is directly intended to support the agricultural sector. This is a sector that is linked to our food security, and the impact of this change is estimated at EUR 6.3 million this year. Thank you. I will answer these questions which, due to a lack of time, have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U162	Lauri West Forest begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these answers. When businesses get harder, people usually or often get harder, especially when we have an inflation situation and prices are rising. Pretty many people do relatively poorly with income, have low incomes, and inflation takes a large part of it. Before discussing here, the Prime Minister shared with me the view that a person should manage his salary. From this I read that [could] lower taxes for those with a small and medium salary. I would help in this way, because it is not possible to resolve this situation with subsidies at the moment, because [they] would increase inflation. But maybe you can describe what the government's plans are to help these people with their wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U164	Thank you. I'm not going to mislead you or other people, and I'm not going to talk around. In answer to the question of whether we are about to have fundamental tax changes, it would be right to say that there are certainly ideas, but at the moment we have a situation in which we need to review the possibilities of our entire budget, in particular, in view of this focus, that we need to make very high additional costs, which are directly related to security. Therefore, the tax changes that would have a significant impact on the budget will not be possible for us this year. That's a straightforward answer. I have always believed that combating prices may seem like such a popular activity and often it is possible to generate large headlines on the basis of it, but instead you should focus on the way you say that people's incomes are higher. Instead of combating prices, income should be combated. And, of course, the way the state can do this is, among other things, through taxes, in addition to controlling the state's own spending. I would like us to look at in the near future, in the near future, the current system of tax humps, which, in turn, will take away a very large proportion of the income from already average wage earners each year, most of the income. It is perceived as unfair, and it is properly perceived. With Parliament's support, I do not think I am wrong when I say that the Social Democrats also supported this amendment from 1 January next year's income tax treatment of pensions in such a way that the average pension is no longer subject to income tax. I think it was a very sensible first step to start with. And the sooner we can move forward in ordering this income tax system, the better. The sooner we get to what you describe, so that taxes do not take away the unfair share of income, the better. But once again, we have a year in which, unfortunately, we simply cannot do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U165	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U166	Thank you. Good minister! The Social Democrats have repeatedly said that the indexation of pensions must be brought back to a much earlier period than next year, as the current government plan has been. And thank you for not messing around. You're just saying that you're not going to make any changes in the near future. However, how can we help our people cope with what is happening in our economy now and what really hurts the most people in the middle class, people who are always used to coping with themselves, but now I don't think I'm gonna be able to take it back next fall. The 4 euros and 17 cents per month you offer to support them will certainly not help people to cope with any dignity. If you do not want to play with taxes or change the tax system, what are your plans and steps to help people, in addition to this 4 euro and 17 cents? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U167	Thank you. Don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said. On the contrary, I said that I would very much like to do so as soon as possible, and I think that we should. But the reality is that, since this year we have to substantially increase the costs directly related to security, we need to focus on strengthening security at the moment. I'm afraid so. There's nothing to do with anyone else or me or the government wanting to make tax changes. I would like to, indeed, very much like to make precisely the kind of changes that would help to put the current tax system in order and leave more money in the hands of people who earn average wages or are now under average wages by reducing taxes. Bringing forward the indexation of pensions was confusing for me. The indexation of pensions is still taking place at the beginning of April, and it relates to the moment we find out about the change in consumer prices last year. I think you actually meant an additional pension increase, which will take place in January next year. This year, it was possible to do what concerns the increase in support for pensioners living alone. It rises to EUR 200, and I continue to think that, knowing that it is the pensioners living alone that are at the highest risk of poverty in Estonia that this is important support. This will be accompanied by the same one-off €50 grant, for which you have been very critical, but I think it is something that will probably become difficult in the autumn, and it still gives quite important support. We are with you, I think that this was the last time during the budgetary procedure was to discuss whether and when it would be possible to raise the level of income support. I think I remember quite rightly that I said at that time that if we have to review the costs to be incurred in the course of the year and if we can change this limit during the year, we will. And now with this extra budget, which you will be discussing shortly, this amendment will be made. It is intended to provide direct support to those people who are hardest hit by the possible continuation of price increases. So I think this is also a very important change.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U168	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U169	Thank you. Madam Minister! Tomorrow we will be discussing school food support and public procurement law here. This situation where we are [is that] today's winners of procurement, even in the case of school food, cannot cope with their tasks, food prices have doubled. However, the situation is that when a new tender is announced in the municipality, the winners of the current procurement, who have failed not because of their own circumstances, do not even qualify to participate again in the procurement. An unfair situation has arisen. Have you discussed this matter in order to make the corresponding corrections to the Public Procurement Act? Have you discussed any increase in the level of state support for school food at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U170	Thank you. We have now moved to the Question Time format, where the original issue has already come a long way. But I think that if there is a problem in the Public Procurement Act that you described, it needs to be reviewed. In particular, in the context of the impact of the war on the Estonian economy, this [question] has not come up. But then we have to look at it and figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U171	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! I told the Prime Minister that the rise in income support is a very good thing, that it was done, the damage, that only now, but it is good that now. It should have come in January, and it would have helped even when electricity prices were high. But my question concerns [the following]. You have highlighted this €50 subsidy. I don't underestimate it at all, any money that comes to people will help. But in Question Time, the Prime Minister couldn't tell whether it would extend to people with partial work capacity or who had no work capacity. Today he says he thinks it's spreading to them too. The support of a living pensioner alone does not extend to these people. The allowance for a single-living pensioner is only for the elderly, for those receiving an old-age pension. My question is, will this EUR 50, which comes as a subsidy for pensioners and families with children, extend to people with partial or no working capacity who are younger than retirement age?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U173	Thank you. This [grant] also extends to pensioners and also extends to survivors' pensions. These survivors' pensions should be slightly over 5400, and if I'm not mistaken, the disability pension is less than 4,000, or 3700, and a little bit more. This [grant] extends not only to old-age pensioners but also to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U174	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The BNS has highlighted data which [in the bottom] can be said that annual inflation in the euro area accelerated to a very large extent in April according to Eurostat's flash estimate. The average was 7.5% in the euro area, 13.2% in Latvia, 16.6% in Lithuania and 19% in Estonia. Please tell us why the price increase in Estonia in April was the biggest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U176	Thank you. Since this has led to misconceptions, I will start, just in case, with a comparison of the price increase: April of last year versus April of 2021 versus April of 2022. One part of this is definitely last year's very low base, but not only. In the case of Estonia, our economy is significantly more energy-intensive than many other economies in the euro area, and this also affects our own region. Speaking of specific figures, the share of energy prices in Estonia is 40% higher than the European Union average. So that is why, as we know, Putin started manipulating energy prices last year, Estonia's inflation indicators and Estonia's price increase were more affected than many other countries. You have also pointed out the numbers of Latvia and Lithuania, Latvia, is another country of the European Union with a very energy-intensive economy. Latvia and Estonia are the countries with the highest energy intensity in the European Union. In the case of Estonia, it must certainly be pointed out that the normal behaviour in the situation of price increases is that of consumers to correct their consumption. We have seen that if the price increase goes very fast, less is consumed, what is being consumed will be regulated. This time it has not been so in [Estonia]. We see that consumption continues to record, remains at a very high level. The explanation relates to the introduction of pension savings, i.e. the withdrawal of second pillar money last year. This was already more than 300 million euros in consumption last year, when inflation started to pick up. [Employment and use of savings] is likely to continue this year. Unfortunately, in the case of Estonia, pension savings play an unpleasant role in keeping inflation high, and they have a role to play in the very high inflation rate we see this year. However, as you referred to in the question, this is an initial flash estimate, Eurostat's flash estimate. In order to see inside these numbers, we must definitely wait for a more accurate assessment, which should come by the end of this week. It will then be possible to comment more closely on the proportions taken into account by Eurostat.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U177	Kalle Grünthal has developed a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U178	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make one important amendment to the verbatim report, because I believe the honourable Minister of Finance was wrong at the moment when he called Latvia the highest price increase with Estonia. It's not like that. You mentioned Latvia, I heard it very clearly. In fact, after Estonia, Lithuania has the highest inflation rate: 16.6%. If you agree with me, I see that you're nodding your head, then obviously, I understand, it was a minor failure. But in geographical terms, it was a very big mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U179	Yes, Kalle, all this can be clarified in the negotiations. But all right. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U180	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. In the case of wars, the energy map is the most important thing, no matter where the war takes place. But I'm asking about the gas. The Prime Minister cut us off from Russian gas in the meantime with an aplomb. But the head of Eesti Gaas at a meeting of the special committee on state budget control began to say that perhaps in the middle of the summer you should start eating your words so that you can still return to Russian gas, because so suddenly [the amendment] cannot be made. What do you think? Does this talk make any sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U181	No, it's not. If this was about turning back to Russian gas, then it doesn't have a complexion. To Mr Grünthal, who is behind you, I must say to you that I have mentioned Latvia indeed and I have indeed said that Latvia with Estonia. But I was talking not about inflation, but about energy intensity, about the energy intensity of the economy. In this, Estonia is the largest and Latvia is after us. In the case of inflation, the current inflation rate in Estonia and Lithuania is indeed the highest, but my response concerned energy intensity, in which Latvia is not in a much better position than we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U182	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! Am I right to understand that the priority of today's government is security, not our own people? Because it is clear that your allowance for people, which is EUR 4.1 per month, will not help people who are in trouble today in a situation where prices have not risen by 0.9%, not by 9%, but by 19% per year. Does the government really not consider it important to ensure the livelihood of Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U184	The government attaches great importance to ensuring the livelihood of Estonia, the livelihood of the Estonian people. I think you did not quite mean what it sounded like, as if ensuring security was not linked to the livelihood of the Estonian people. How can the people of Estonia cope at all if security is not guaranteed? This is in the current situation, when we have regained independence in Estonia during the most difficult security crisis of the years, certainly the most important. The increase in income support from EUR 150 to EUR 200 per adult and from EUR 240 for children is a very important measure, a very important means of improving the livelihood of those who would otherwise be in very serious trouble. This is something that has also been supported by the Social Democrats, and I think it is a very sensible change that needs to be made. I do not consider it reasonable in any way to contrast it with security, I think it is part of this same strengthening of security, and I certainly do not consider it reasonable to disparage it in any way. This has been a sensible and necessary change. I hope that Parliament will also support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U185	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U186	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your answers gave the impression that you see the overall increase in energy prices and the resulting pressure on entrepreneurship and society at large, but also the impression that this war is not so critical for any business area or, more specifically, for companies, that you consider it necessary to take any specific measures. Am I right to understand that the Ministry of Finance does not have any risk scenario that concerns either certain sectors or specific companies that are dependent on the effects of this war in such a way that their functioning can temporarily be completely shut down? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Don't you have a scenario like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U187	Thank you. If there was any such impression that [we] do not have companies for which the political risks that have always been known in the case of Russia and Belarus and which are now materialising and which are serious for this particular company, then [I will specify that] there are certainly such companies. Perhaps, in economic terms as a whole, we are, as a whole, in relation to another European Union country in this sense, like stronger foundations or stronger legs, that Russia and Belarus in general, when we are talking about the role of an export partner, have been steadily reduced [in our case]. As regards the overall export volume, last year the volume of exports to Russia and Belarus was around 850 million euros, which is about 5% of Estonian goods exports, in terms of the economy as a whole. In particular, it may also be important that Estonia's own exports of goods to Belarus and Russia amounted to about 300 million euros, or about 1.6% of Estonian exports of goods. It characterises the order of magnitude that we are talking about. In the case of imports, the situation is slightly different, although there have been similar and many transits through Estonia. Imports of Estonian goods from Belarus and Russia accounted for about 14% of Estonian imports of goods. Most of the mineral fuels were certainly not left in Estonia, nor will they remain. Fuels in turn accounted for more than 80% of imports from Belarus and more than 50% of imports from Russia. However, as I said in my reply, since this change is not temporary or short-term, we are certainly also prepared by the state to provide all the support needed to find new, alternative markets. All the know-how that our country has to use, we are happy to share, and we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U188	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U189	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Finance! Indeed, it is often the argument that we are now doing these important things and that we are dealing with the economy [first], and then, if there is money left, we will be dealing with poverty reduction. Today, it's a little like this, we're gonna do these security and war things, and then we're gonna take care of people's livelihoods. At the same time, it is very difficult for me to see that, for example, dealing with wage poverty can be pushed into post-war time, because when a person copes with the money he earns, he feels like a dignified member of society, he is satisfied, he actually feels better about his country, and there is much less of a place to plant war refugees or Putin's spirit. In fact, coping with our people is also a kind of security guarantee. Do you support this type of logic and, therefore, should the proportion that goes to ensure subsistence not be greater in the supplementary budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U190	Of course, I support this logic, and I also agree with you that it is absolutely impossible to contrast these two things with contributing and managing security. These two things are inextricably linked. Once again, I refer for a moment to the passionate debate on the previous question, and I come back to the fact that there is a part of the politicians who very passionately criticises the fact that there is initial support from the state to accommodate these same war refugees. [Asking] Where this money goes. This money goes to our own economy, to pay wages to our own people. They get a job through it. What exactly is being fought against is beyond comprehension. It is all connected, and that means that by contributing to security, including population protection, we will do nothing but contribute exactly the same to coping. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U191	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U192	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Keit! Here's my question. Of course, we hope that the horror in Ukraine will end and these people will go back from here to their homes, but unfortunately it may not be the case, and people can stay here. It's a probable scenario. At present, these people all live mostly on supported housing organised by the state, but at some point they have to find [their own new place of residence]. They're looking for housing today. This still makes our rental market totally different. There are no rental housing [sufficient]; it is already coming out. We're gonna need more of these. Our own people need them, too. Everyone needs them. Does the state have any plans and measures that will happen in the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U193	Thank you. I am forced to correct you a little, because it is not at all that the majority of the war refugees left in Estonia are or need of state-supported accommodation services. Today we have just over 34000 refugees who have remained in Estonia, and only 4384 of them need accommodation from the state. This means that the absolute majority of them have actually found either relatives, families, as well as employers in Estonia before, or really, on their own, either rental or other accommodation, and have not needed direct contact by the state. Local authorities, with whom the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing a great deal at the moment, will certainly play an important role in long-term accommodation. The municipalities, once again and not necessarily themselves, do not have to rent out the area belonging to the municipalities, but know and know the local conditions best and can help with mediation. The nuance is still that people who have come out of the war and are looking for shelter here, as I said at the beginning, a large part of them, especially women who have reached Estonia, would like to find an application immediately. They'd like to get a job right away. This means that they also prefer to rent rental homes or other rented housing that they are looking for, where there are jobs and where they can find suitable applications. So, yes, there will be a follow-up and a plan in cooperation with the municipalities. At the moment, it is true that it is important to say a great deal of thanks to all those who have already come to help and helped, without the state having to move there in any way to the Ukrainian war refugees to find their original place of stay in Estonia. We don't know how long they're gonna be here, it's true. They themselves very much hope to be able to return to [Ukraine] as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U194	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U195	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is to be welcomed that the additional budget deals with the poorest. However, as has already been seen from the issues here, the support they receive is still not enough. And the middle class? The middle class is impoverished, many of their savings have already eaten up inflation. What exactly are you offering them? A lot of them are in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U196	Thank you. I checked, just in case, that we weren't discussing the extra budget right now. We are in the process of questioning the impact of Russian aggression on the Estonian economy. But, of course, the impact on the economy is that, in addition to the direct and directly related economic links, this effect also reaches the Estonian economy through more indirect channels. Once again: if we are talking about an additional budget First of all, their sense of security and confidence is that we can and must invest directly in security, certainly better than what it would be like without these decisions. As I said in reply to your colleague Riina Sikkut, I agree with all those who say that there is no reason or point to confront these things. They are interlinked, and through this, the additional budget will also contribute directly to the confidence of the middle class you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U197	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. During the negotiations, Eduard Odines, the first representative of the authors of the request for the floor, is to be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is probably possible to argue here what the situation is related to, whether it was a chicken or an egg. Before the situation in the economy and then people coping or before people coping and then the situation in the economy? First ensuring security and then ensuring people's livelihood or in the opposite order? It seems that the Minister has not understood why the issue of questioning is the economy when we are talking about people's livelihoods. But [they] are directly related, for everything that happens in our economy is also reflected in the livelihood of our people. It was not for nothing that Mr Pikhof was referring to the fact that people who actually receive the average salary, who are used to coping with themselves, are recently very concerned about how they will survive the next season. Everything that is happening in the economy and how the war affects our economy is also directly reflected in the well-being of people, in people's livelihoods. That is why today we paid so much attention to the welfare of people, our compatriots, and their coping. We also asked the Minister what are the real concrete measures with which the Government of the Republic is helping different branches of the economy, different sectors, but unfortunately we did not hear the answer. We heard how the government is trying to help search for new export markets and how the need for former EAS services is growing, but these are not the answers. These are not the answers that Estonian entrepreneurs expect. They're waiting for some real action. Yes, it can certainly be argued whether investing in security, investing in defence is also an investment in the economy and helping the economy. Obviously, but this is not what we wanted to hear from the Minister, but the concrete answers to helping the economy and then the people of Estonia. Since we didn't hear about the economy, we focused on people's livelihoods and the problems that are. It is obvious that 4 euros and 17 cents a month of support for the people of Estonia is not what people expect of the Government of the Republic. Yes, we did it last winter, we will certainly be able to do it next winter, too, I mean the Estonian people more widely. But at what price? What do people have to do, what do they have to give up? Of course, raising the subsistence limit and the support of a single-living pensioner are good things that the Social Democrats fully support, but there is no doubt too little to help our people. The Minister is talking about ensuring security first, and then we will look at tax issues and other such issues. But maybe it will be a little late, because there will be a different mechanism where those people who have not received enough attention will also turn against security issues. Everything that the Minister himself was talking about is happening. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U199	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U200	We also raised the issue of public procurement, which is now very directly reflected in the problem of school food. Those companies that have previously won school food procurement will no longer be able to offer school food, especially for the money that the state allocates and to which very many local authorities are unable to put [from their side the money]. And then they're just like breaking public contracts, and then they're just like being punished, so they can't take part in the next public procurement. The Minister says, however, that this is not the subject of this inquiry. What do you mean, it's not? It certainly has a direct impact on the economy, a direct impact on specific branches. This is very much the subject of this question. Something has to be done here as a matter of urgency. I look forward to tomorrow's debate in this Chamber on these issues, because we also need to get somewhere on this issue. Mr Kalvi Tõvi raised the issue of the rental market. This is also a very clear industry where there are now very large anomalies. It is not just about the refugees of Ukraine; it is also about the people of Estonia in general. In the week before last, our group and I made a tour of Estonia to familiarise ourselves with the situation in the reception of refugees from Ukraine. We visited the municipality of West Harju, went to the municipality of Rakvere, visited the municipality of Kadrina, the city of Pärnu, the city of Tartu, the city of Viljandi. One of the main issues raised by local government leaders and raised by all volunteers dealing with Ukrainians is the problem of home availability. This is becoming a wider problem. The minister brought the numbers [by which] almost everyone has found a home and there is no problem at all. [Actually] the problem is very big. What is happening on the rental market is where the Estonian state must intervene. This is the impact of the economy, it is the impact of coping, it is a security issue. Today, it has already sounded several times that dissatisfied people, people who cannot cope with themselves, people whose coping is disturbed, are a threat to Estonia's security. We need to think about it, not argue about whether we have to ensure that we can cope first and then have security or whether it is in the opposite order. I don't think that was the last time we were able to debate these issues. But the summary is this: yes, of course security must be guaranteed, of course we must invest in our defence capabilities, but we must not forget the livelihood of the most common so-called middle-class Estonian person and the dignity of dealing with ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U201	Kalle Grünthal, please! [[Kalle Grünthal asks for more time.]] Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U202	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! Dear Minister, Today there was a question of the impact of Russian aggression on the Estonian economy. I listened and listened, and it was quite interesting. But, frankly, I couldn't find any connection to Russia's aggression in all the Minister's positions. Rather, it was the escape of the Minister of the Reform Party from responsibility for the inadequacy and indecisiveness of his government. I asked the Minister the question: why has BNS indicated that annual inflation in the euro area accelerated by 19% in April, according to Eurostat's flash estimate? By comparison, the euro area average is 7.5%, and of our neighbours, Lithuania has honorable silver, 16%, and Latvia has 13.2%. Estonia [the indicator] is seen as more than twice the euro area average. What I am saying is that, in fact, the Reform Party's government is not able or able to ease inflation in the economy because they lack the will to do so, and I dare say that it is also skills. Yes, you say it's good to criticize and then offer better solutions. The Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed better solutions since the price of electricity increased, but this has been like deaf ears. What's the point of playing a symphony for a person who doesn't give a shit about music? First of all, the Minister noted that Estonia and Latvia are the countries with the highest energy consumption and therefore our inflation is also the highest. I would like to ask, good Minister, why have you not taken into account the EKRE's recommendation to resolve the increase in electricity prices by very simple measures. First, stop using the utopian and corrupt CO2 tax, first of all. Secondly, the exit from the stock market is something that used to be good, but if it still rains between the collars, you have to go under cover and quit the stock market. Thirdly, why has the government not set a state price for electricity to ensure that the population survives and entrepreneurship is maintained? Why has the government forgotten that electricity is the basis for the functioning of the economy as a whole, and if it grows rapidly [price], it will result in inflation? Even sixth graders know that. I wonder why the Reform Party government doesn't know anything about this. Or another example. Fuel, or petrol, and diesel, are not brought down. It's a mystery! In Poland, car fuel went cheaper in December because the government reduced excise duties on fuel to the EU minimum level. I wonder how they did it, but our government can't. Or another example, again from Poland: the Polish Government also reduced VAT on gas, electricity and heat from 23% to 8% in order to mitigate the impact of the surge in prices on consumers and businesses. Our government doesn't want to do that. I'm asking why you don't want to do this. Why do you not want to care about your entrepreneurs and your population and want to be the first, with the highest annual price increase [the country] in April, [as indicated] the latest data according to the BNS? It shows your disregard for the people. I do not know why, but I want to quote now Martin Helmet, who said nicely in commenting on the decision of the Polish Government: the Poles will, [because] there will be a national conservative government in power that stands for the well-being of its people. When price increases threaten to stifle people and businesses, the government does not rub its hands with greed-smelling eyes or clump in the back legs to see how good the budget is growing. It is this government that makes and must make six tax reductions on an ongoing basis. Why do you not listen to the wishes and will of the Estonian Conservative People's Party? The fact that inflation in Estonia is the highest in the euro area, 19%, is actually what I am using today for the second time this comparison is that you are like a head of the family who goes to the inn and buys it for everyone, but at home children and women are starving because there is no bread. Look and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U203	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The Minister also shows that he no longer wishes to speak. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U204	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. This is a presentation by the Minister of Culture in 2022 on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." The rapporteur is Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U205	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching us! I am pleased to introduce to you the objectives and activities of the Ministry of Culture's area of government, which are set out in the three development plans. They contribute to achieving all the goals of the "Estonia 2035" strategy. I very much hope that this review will convince us that culture will no longer be a tedious spending of the state budget with no cover. On the contrary, we have found the value chains in our area and we are also able to implement them well. Culture has definitions of dozens or even hundreds. Culture certainly means contacts between people, thus shared values and shared meanings. The abundance of these meanings gives us an idea of how cohesive our society really is. I will start with social cohesion in the current context. Between 2010 and 2020 there has been an increase in the proportion of people who communicate and view permanent contact with residents of different nationalities. For the younger generation, the common language is Estonian, and younger people of other nationalities communicate with Estonians much more frequently than their older national companions. Last year, some 18,000 people took part in the collective activities of people from different language and cultural backgrounds. These are trends that I am sure will be welcomed. On the other hand, we cannot overlook the fact that the humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine is becoming a kind of integration test for Estonian society. This answers two important questions: firstly, can we manage to accept people, and secondly, what is the psychological readiness of our society? In the longer term, the state's welfare is more affected than the reception of refugees. The Ministry of Culture, together with its partners, will focus on adapting people and on long-term integration and maintaining and building social cohesion. The area of integration is given a long-term perspective "Sidusa Estonia Development Plan 2021 to 2030." One of its objectives is to encourage people from different language and cultural backgrounds to bear the identity of Estonia, participate actively in society and feel a sense of belonging. It is true that the new reality that began on 24 February was not foreseen in this development plan and would have been very difficult to foresee. However, nothing is broken yet if we make the necessary adjustments to our plans in view of the actual situation. As a society, we must, in any case, consider that very many people remain here for longer than a month or even a year. This means a greater need for us to help these people to adapt as softly as possible to Estonian society and to integrate our cultural space. However, the Estonian language must be acquired for this purpose. Language training is indispensable to work, for example, in the service sector, in the education or medicine sector or in the public sector. To enable this, we will continue to offer language courses to a much larger number of applicants. Estonia is an e-governance and, therefore, we will develop and create new digital platforms for language learning and adult language learning. However, language skills cannot remain passive, so we place great emphasis on the daily use of Estonian in the Estonian language environment. Language and mind are brothers. I would like to thank all the Estonian cultural institutions that have already allowed the Ukrainian war refugees to view their exhibits free of charge and have helped to facilitate their adaptation to the Estonian mental environment. During the theme year of libraries, many libraries all over Estonia expect to read and rent war refugees, reproduce documents, use the internet and also simply play with their children in playgrounds. All these activities help to establish a link between people with a different native language and the Estonian state. But how can we strengthen this bond? Studies confirm that citizenship helps to establish a person's link with the country. It is not a question of changing citizenship policy, but of simplifying the complex process. We intend to create a comprehensive solution for the services that are preparatory to applying for Estonian citizenship and to ensure that people are informed about it. It is also important to ensure the availability and availability of other services supporting adaptation and longer term integration. Equal access to public services - be it health care, labour market or career services or anything else - helps to feel valuable in society. The horizontal nature of integration and adaptation requires even greater cooperation between ministries and various policy implementers, including local authorities and NGOs, as well as with the private sector. We must now recognise that the target groups of adaptation and integration services are not sufficiently aware of the services they receive and the information is fragmented. We must reduce the noise and running of information, which we have also seen in this refugee crisis, unfortunately. We cannot afford to develop new segregated communities. From the first day, when a person reaches our country, he must have access to the Estonian cultural space and public services. As receivers, we must be able to make the values of this country simple and understandable so that everyone can apply themselves as much as possible, as our constitution says. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In connection with this, we can confirm that the persistence and consistent development of Estonian nationality, language and culture are guaranteed by a creative, responsible and open society that values communities. One of the metrics of a vibrant cultural space is the participation of Estonian residents in our cultural space. Both [development strategy] "Estonia 2035" and "Cultural Development Plan 2021 84% took part in cultural life in 2015, 79% in 2017 and 74% in 2020. Of course, we can see the effects of the corona crisis in the decline of this trend here; the downward trend is obviously due to this. It was also clear to us during this period that nothing would replace immediate contacts, so to speak, the stage and the meeting of the hall. It will therefore be very important to support the relaunch of the cultural and creative industries sector in the coming years. This is not only a point for the central government, but also for local governments. We can see that the differences in participation in culture are quite large across regions. For example, 81% of respondents participated in cultural life in Läänemaa, slightly over 61% in Ida-Virumaa, and unfortunately this percentage was even lower in Võrumaa. The statistics clearly draw attention to concerns such as availability, willingness to participate in culture creation and to provide experience. These issues are expected to be resolved in the post-pandemic period, despite good statistical indicators in themselves. We have made significant investments in cultural objects, and events and institutions are actively visited. The cultural landscape of Estonia is diverse and very high and culture is important for our people. The [Development Strategy] "Estonia 2035" aims to achieve the "Cultural Development Plan 2021"2030." Its overall objective is a vibrant, developing and open-to-the-world Estonian culture, in which participation would be a natural part of a person's daily life. If culture is viable, it will certainly reach the world and make Estonia bigger. The impact of political decisions will never occur overnight in the cultural landscape. A good and correct example is the cultural pack action launched at the beginning of this year. If a child or young person goes to the theatre performances, visits cinemas or museums at their age of development, there is hope that he will grow into an active, conscious cultural participant. EUR 1 million has been earmarked for support, but it is already clear that there is a need for a decisive increase in funding for the cultural pack. We know that the Estonian people love theatre. We are at the absolute peak of the world in terms of the number of visits. Changes to the system of funding of performing institutions submitted to the Riigikogu support both the diversity and availability of performing arts. Creatives, in many ways freelancers, play an increasingly important role in offering creative experiences. There were at least 10200 freelance creative people in Estonia in 2021. They are an organic part of the creative ecosystem and, therefore, guaranteeing them social guarantees is also one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture in the coming years. This year we have dedicated ourselves to the drafting of an intention to amend the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act. The aim here is the same: to find a fair support mechanism for professionals who contribute to the diversity and development of Estonian culture. The movement of song and dance festivals is the greatest expression of active citizenship. This community is made up of people who offer experiences in the most powerful expression, song and dance of our folk culture. However, the persistence of tradition is not self-evident if we do not have educated tutors. This is why the Estonian Folk Culture Centre has been providing support to the collectives to cover the labour costs of their supervisors since 2021. Participation in the party process is a substantial work for supervisors, which will be prepared for years. Honourable listeners! Just as a musical and dance festival is not a museum, but a living organism that needs new oxygen all the time, it can also be passed on to our wider heritage. However, the valuable cultural heritage in our memory facilities is at risk if we do not create safe and efficient common storage facilities for Estonian museums and museums today. This investment reduces the cost of maintaining museums and ensures the preservation and promotion of our heritage. The Ministry of Culture is preparing amendments to the museum law in order to develop a financing model based on clear objectives and reduce bureaucracy. The museum must be able to focus on its main work. This is the collection, study and introduction of inheritances. Estonia, of course, is also an e-state and our digital culture could be at the top of the world. In 2022, the Ministry of Culture will develop a digital strategy for the Ministry's fields of activity and continue to digitise cultural heritage in 2018/2023. the implementation of the 2006 Action Plan. The memory institutions administered by the state have a total of over 900 million heritage objects that are important for Estonian culture and deserve digitisation. Currently, around 38% of our cultural heritage is available digitally. This brings us back to the availability of culture. But the digital world is only an opportunity, not an end in itself. The Library Theme Year has already centred on the role of libraries as community centres and public service providers. Books do not go away, however, and reading remains the point of being libraries. However, the planned reform of public libraries must offer new opportunities and open them up here as well. The library must promote innovation, offer various high quality services throughout Estonia. Cultural participation also begins very often in the library. All these indicators and the plans outlined briefly confirm the extent to which cultural developments are currently taking place. The ability to make an independent profit in market conditions also helps to contribute, together with public money, to a viable, open and diverse cultural space and to increase the socio-economic impact of the sector. This year, the design and implementation of the action for the development of the creative industries will continue and will continue to be implemented. The European Union's resources are planned here for about EUR 10 million. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In the field of culture, we see a relatively high percentage of participation and a willingness to participate in culture, but in the field of sport, our challenge is to move forward even more efficiently and faster. The fundamentals of Estonian sport policy up to 2030, or Sport 2030, are aimed at ensuring that the mental and physical balance of Estonians and the well-being of Estonians correspond to the Nordic level in the target year. This means that at least two thirds of our population is moving and doing sport. We have set the goal of having an environment conducive to physical activity in Estonia, together with the accompanying services, of course. They must support the increase in people's healthy lives, self-realisation and economic growth. At least twice a week the proportion of people moving for 30 minutes is gradually rising. It was 40% in 2018 and 45% in 2020, but still too little. It is important for us to consistently increase people's daily physical activity throughout the life cycle. Promoting exercise and solutions to prevent health risks in the sport sector will remain one of the main activities of the Ministry of Culture for years to come. In order to reach the Nordic level, we also need supporting activities from other bodies. In 2021 we developed the concept of promoting exercise and launched a thorough study of mobility. Without it, there could be no movement reform. The government also committed EUR 600000 last year. Moreover, in 2023 we have planned for the theme year of the movement. There is a great opportunity here to raise awareness among all of us and to have a broader social debate on these issues. However, we must not forget about people with special needs here. The success of the Grand Competition keeps Estonian sport on the world map, it brings the state of Estonia a reputation and has a positive impact on the sports performance of our population. The year 2021 was certainly a year of joy in sport. The international title competitions won a record 191 medals from all sports: 55 gold, 57 silver and 79 bronze. In particular, I would like to mention here our epenity as the Olympic winner. The first results of the Team Estonia programme launched in 2019 have therefore already been seen in the Tokyo and Beijing Olympic Games. Team Estonia will be further developed together with this important partner, the Estonian Olympic Committee, and the aim will be to increase its budget in the coming years. Team Estonia aims to perform well at the Olympic Games and other international title competitions. Winning medals is, of course, also important, as it would encourage all of our enthusiasts. Speaking of sport, we also need to talk about coaches. In addition to their work dependent on performance in sport, coaches have a wider impact on the health behaviour of children and young people and on their attitudes, values and skills. It is very important that children and young people are instructed not only by educated and exemplary trainers, but also by ethical coaches. The methodologies chosen shall be safe and age-appropriate and capable. Unfortunately, there are over one and a half thousand instructors in the field of sport without a professional certificate, but this figure has started to decline strongly. Since 2015, the Ministry of Culture has been aiming to provide trainers with a decent wage, which would also motivate them to acquire and raise their professional level. The implementation of the national wage subsidy system has been successful and the employment relationship has been organised. At the same time, we have a situation where the number of coaches has increased, but the additional funding for measures is still insufficient. The priority of the Ministry of Culture is still [to strive for this] so that the coach's remuneration reaches the average wage in Estonia, just like the teachers' salary. Every year, half a hundred high-sports international competitions take place in Estonia. We are being offered more and more opportunities to conduct international competitions with a high level of sport in popular areas. This is because, at international level, we are well aware that we are up to our responsibilities in the organisation. Sports competitions have a direct economic impact on the state as well as the promotion of Estonia and tourism land in international media. For this reason, it is important to continue to support international competitions and, if necessary, to find additional funding. Honourable listeners! I want to end with the hope and conviction that culture, as well as sport as part of culture, will create peace, balance and joy in society. Smart, active and healthy people live in Estonia. What, though, makes us unique in the world? It is the fruit of our common existence, or culture. Everything else can be offered by any country around the world if they play by the rules. We will then maintain and develop these value chains that help to create a caring, cooperative and open Estonia, a unique and unique one in the world. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U206	Thank you. There are questions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U207	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for a clear, smooth and concrete overview of your activities. My question concerns the point under which you say that you will be committed in 2022 to drafting the intention to amend the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act. What exactly is the designing of the intention to develop, and when can it reach us? How long do you think it'll take? Can the current composition of the Riigikogu process it, or do some persons need to apply again for the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U208	Thank you. I really hope you'll be running next time. But in coming to your question, indeed, to the important partner organisations in the sector, we have disbanded [and announced] that we are working on and working on such a development plan. We have already had our first contacts, we have, I believe, talked about this with honourable members of the Riigikogu. Indeed, the way the world and the environment have changed often forces us to review and reform laws. We want to develop, as my colleagues have formulated an ambitious target, the best freelancer system in the world. We are in the process, and you are kindly welcome to share your good thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U209	I forgot to say before starting the item on the agenda that, as requested by the Minister and decided by the Bureau, everyone has the opportunity to ask two questions. Let's keep going. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U210	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for the principles you have declared in your report, they are all very sympathetic. But I'm asking about a very specific matter. On this paper, which you have also distributed to the Riigikogu, the role of coaches in society is stated as the last point. It says that our priority is still to ensure that the coach's remuneration reaches the Estonian average wage level, similar to that of teachers. If you look at the chart drawn by the sports department in the review of the fundamentals of sport policy, [we can see that] for four years, the salaries of coaches have not substantially deteriorated. At the same time, we know that the average wage is moving up and inflation is insane. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] When do you think [the trainer's salary] will reach that point, and what will happen next year with the coach's salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U211	Thank you. What happens to coach salaries next year is likely to become clearer during the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. Why has it been in the order of EUR 1300 for many good years? Consequently, this issue has not been dealt with intensively enough. I hope I have a little more luck than my good predecessors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U212	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Culture, The concept of the exercise [promotion] contains golden words. [It is said here] that the aim is to increase the number of people's healthy lives and to promote healthy lifestyles throughout the life cycle. In the list of bottlenecks, people with special needs are currently not sufficiently involved in the exercise. It's true. Here you have the solution to the fact that you need to review the obstacles, such as space problems. [They can be removed by better] spatial planning and service design. But my question is this: have you not thought that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, there might be a need for better training of coaches and physical education teachers, so that they can better involve people with special needs, rather than just [tell them] in class, just wait, you watch and you just take part, sit on the sidelines and read the book?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U214	Thank you. You have a very correct point. All people must have the opportunity to participate in sporting activities if they so wish, even though some find it somewhat more difficult due to their position. Of course, we must pay attention here to the fact that our teachers who deliver in schools have been adequately prepared. But, as we have pointed out, acquiring a coach's profession and raising professional qualifications are extremely important, and I believe that this block, for example, on editing with young people with disabilities, also plays a very important role in coaching and learning. When it comes to our financial focus on, for example, the Paralympic[Committee] and the Special Olympic Association, [I can say that] the country has distributed more than EUR 1 million to these two organisations. So this [theme] is in quite a number of areas, in terms of funding, coach preparation, and there it is a very important place, as well as, of course, in terms of accessibility in culture in general rather than in sport alone. We have talked not only about sport but also about accessibility for participation in [more] culture, so the issue of people with disabilities has certainly been taken into account here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U215	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. We've got one crisis after another. After the corona crisis, we are clearly in a war and also in an energy crisis, and it does not seem to be going away. You mentioned that you have a re-launch plan for the cultural and creative sectors. But it was probably meant as a post-corona reboot plan, you've talked about it here before, answering our questions. The Social Democrats today asked the Minister of Finance about how to manage the various sectors of the economy. The Minister of Finance did not specifically mention the cultural and creative sectors as one of Estonia's most successful industries. What is your knowledge of how our cultural institutions will cope with this energy crisis and how will the government help them? We know that our cultural institutions are not the least modest in terms of their volume and energy consumption. How are they doing, and how are you helping?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U217	Thank you. If we look at last year's budget numbers, how many cultural institutions planned their budgets for energy costs and how big they were, in fact, at the end of the year, then [we can see], of course, the fluctuations have been very high. Last year's startling end period was certainly the time when the boards and managements of several foundations and [other] institutions drew up their own budgets. Of course, as wise people, they have planned this year in such a way that energy costs are as adequate as possible. We have also said by the ministry that if anyone really falls into trouble, we can communicate with one another on this issue. Of course, we cannot shut down one or the other theatre or stop their substantive activities, because there will be no money left to pay the electricity bill. We have that knowledge. Today, no cultural institution has addressed us directly on this issue. I come to the beginning of your question. Speaking of how to give more impetus to our cultural sector in various crises, I am pleased that we were able to make a decision in the government office last week regarding Film Estonia. [It helps] to attract foreign film projects to Estonia and thus increase employment in our cultural sector, starting with make-up and actors and ending with the renting of technology and bringing funds to Estonia more widely. Last time it was planned to be financed with EUR 2 million this year, but in good cooperation with the Minister of Finance who stood on the board before me, we were able to increase this amount by 3.4 million. Perhaps [we] will also help the film industry to recover from the crisis and regain momentum. I believe that this funding is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U218	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister, good friend Tiit! As we know, the Ministry of Culture is the most important ministry in Estonia (Minister confirms: "It is true!") because the state of Estonia is designed to preserve Estonian language and culture. Thank you for this report. At the same time, I would still have liked to have had a clear target that by the year the coaches' salary would be more or less close to the average salary in Estonia. Right now, these scissors are getting bigger and bigger and there is a difference of 600 euros. As a teacher, I am still particularly concerned about our youngest schoolchildren. On the one hand, I am happy to read that this year's cultural policy project will be launched, with a total of EUR 1 million allocated. But you know very well that at the same time, this government, which you belong to, has reduced the support for young people's activities, not by EUR 1 million, but by EUR 4 million. This also applies to youth participation in sport activities. Why is the government teasing children? When will these millions be returned to recreational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U220	Thank you. The increase in this budget line will also become [clearer] during the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. When that decision was made in the government, I was in another position. I was also the chairman of the board of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, and I very loudly criticised this decision that the money for recreational education was cut. I haven't changed my position to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U221	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! Thank you for your good presentation. It was so precisely timed, I guess three seconds left over. We have met with you before, and I, who have been promoting movement for 13 years and hurting the heart over this area, still have the same question that we discussed at our last meeting. We've got 2023 coming up for the National Year of Movement. When people normally think, including politicians, how to do something in this particular year, we, in our conversation or conference, left the emphasis on how to do something from this year, where we can move forward, so to speak, by several steps to promote mobility. Perhaps you are making a few points in this area, Minister, about what we can do at an early pace, because we know that we have good people, but without additional money we will probably not achieve a better result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U223	Thank you. In your last sentence, you answered what we can do. We can review the area of sport from the perspective of fiscal prism, especially from the point of view of mobility and, for example, from the point of view of Team Estonia's professional sport. The good results achieved in professional sport will certainly encourage young people, as well as people of other ages, to move more. What else can we do? Of course, the more we have good inspiring coaches, the more we may be able to attract people to sport. But sport is not just a question of role models and coaches. Of course, schools and the Ministry of Education and Research also play an important role here through the Invitation School. And, of course, other ministries here also have a very clear role to play, even the Ministry of Social Affairs. We need to look, as you know very well as a person from the municipality, at the infrastructure so that people can engage in exercise. [We need to see] that the environment is supportive, that there are running paths and ballgrounds in a sufficiently comfortable distance, as well as the urban environment, so that for example wheelwings can be made. This is very clearly uniting in different areas. Since we have a wide range of organisations in Estonia that operate and carry out activities in the field of sport, and a wide range of competences, we have seen in the Ministry of Culture that we do not make sufficient use of all these good competences. That is why I am pleased that about two months ago, a person started working in the Ministry who should tie all these different components together, such a centre of competence for exercise, and we could develop this area very systematically. [We could] very systematically develop to get all the good skills and resources of the Moving Invitation School, the School Sports Association, the various sports federations, and the Olympic Committee into the management component.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U224	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U225	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of exercise. You've already given much of the answer, but I'll keep talking. In your speech, you stressed that recreation is one of the cornerstones of prevention of health risks and that the relationship between movement and health is very important. I took out health statistics, and from there we are still looking at a worrying trend. [Presented] Two basic facts. In fact, the proportion of our physically inactive children, as well as adults away from movement due to injuries and diseases, is increasing. This suggests that exercise should be viewed more widely, as you said, not only from the perspective of the Ministry of Culture. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Maybe you'll show me if you see a brighter picture here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U226	Thank you. Of course, exercise is important throughout the life cycle, starting with young children and ending with the elderly, well, I don't know, starting from little rides and races at different events and ending up with older walking classes. If you ask about ministries, of course, these same reasons can be raised here with a number of different activities, including the main activities and the activities of the administration. But when we talk about example, the Ministry of Culture, together with four other ministries, has only recently launched a four-week challenge, during which we collect kilometres and put them together in a table and see what we have the most mobile and sports-loving ministry. In the end, it is a question of role models, not only in your work group, your family, but also in your city, municipality, and village. The example is in the case of a sports germ, I think, a positive infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U227	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U228	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My second question concerns keeping the tradition of singing and dancing. You mentioned that from 2021 the Estonian Folk Culture Centre will pay support to cover the work costs of the instructors of the Song and Dance Festival collectives. Perhaps you would describe a longer plan, how you will see what your ideas are, that these salaries will still be covered in the future, that there will be both choir and dance directors, and not only those, but also singers and dancers. Without them, there will be no event or event.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U229	Thank you. You're right that our enthusiasts, our singers, our dancers, are important. But the corona period has also created a kind of negative balance or a negative trend. Some have indeed been discouraged and have not actively participated in the choir rehearsal. We have the statistics, I'd be happy to share it with you. If you come to the pay paid to the circlers, you can [can say that] it can come from a very broad range of three components. One of these is the participation fees of the circles, which are paid either by enthusiasts or their parents, [added], of course, by the local government's contribution and also by the state's contribution. At county visits, I have very often taken up the question of the tradition of this same song and dance and discussed it with city and parish leaders. The same [Estonian Folk Culture] Centre provides wage support to those who have a fixed contract of employment. But last year, we didn't use all the resources. I asked the local government leaders why they did not enter into agreements with [these people] and [they did not] increase their contribution. It is a matter of awareness, as in many other areas. If rural municipalities and rural municipality parents become increasingly aware of the opportunities offered by the state, i.e. contribute with their own participation, then there is sufficient reason for the state to put more money there. Ensuring sustainability and drawing up an action plan with various partners is actually what we have to analyse with a number of other ministries. The tradition of song and dance, the salaries there, are certainly in our focus through this development plan until 2035.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U230	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! In Appendix 1, "The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030," page 12, where ministries and the activities of these agencies are listed, the first point is that in 2021 the Ministry of Culture allocated the X euro to the Estonian Paralympic Committee. What does this X mean here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U232	Thank you. You're very observant. I didn't see it before the printing of the material. But as I mentioned earlier to the Honourable Helmen Hunter, we have two important organisations for people with disabilities, both in connection with the Special Olympics and the Paralympics, [and they have a total of EUR 1.05 million]. I believe this order of magnitude is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U233	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very respected Minister of Culture! Thank you for this good and thorough presentation. But my question applies to one of these subjects and areas that I believe have proved to be one rubbing stone in the comfortable shoe of the Ministry of Culture, namely the digital sector and all digital strategies. It is also written here that you are planning to create a digital strategy for the fields of activity of the Ministry of Culture. What exactly does that mean, could you tell me a little bit more about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U235	Thank you. Yeah. The digital strategy can cover all those areas where digitalisation could produce better results in culture and where we can use and enrich our field more effectively. We are talking about the fact that we have a lot of museum collections that we are trying to digitise to make them more accessible. Last week, during a visit to the Raplamaa library in Rapla, they came up with a solution. For example, if during the real estate boom every last tired household is bought in different corners of Estonia and an old host's box is found in the attic with photographs or letters, then it would, of course, be wise not to throw it into a fireplace, but to take it to the local library of Raplamaa, for example, who digitizes the photos and letters. This would help us to better explore our cultural heritage. All the different options that the state, local authorities and organisations consider important in this area are reasonable to put together in this strategy. Of course, it may also include the availability of e-books and material essential for family research, which is also extremely important to us. For example, for families who have migrated from Estonia, who want to study their families two or three generations ago and their history, all the necessary material would be available via e-mail channels. Of course, when we talk about the digital strategy, we can also talk about an important area where creativity and the economy meet with creative industries. Why not? [I mean] our computer games, everything that concerns the evolving digital sector. Disco Elysium is probably a familiar subject where creativity, economics and entrepreneurship meet. Creative economy can also bring significant employment to the Estonian economy and certainly tax money. All these things need to be examined in the course of this digital strategy, reviewed, systematized, meaningfulized and rewritten so that we have a very clear goal of how we develop digital things and what are the opportunities offered by the public sector in the same way, the private sector in the other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U236	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is as follows. Folkuniversitetet Estonia, a partner of the Integration Foundation, writes to the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu that your ministry intends to offer thousands of Ukrainian refugees free of charge teaching the Estonian language, but has never been able to do so to Estonians in their desired volume and in 2021 the number of places offered fell very sharply. I certainly quote the author of the competent letter: "Therefore, the state should seriously consider whether it is fair to offer Estonian language learning to such a narrow target group and leave 150,000 people with insufficient knowledge of Estonian to compete for individual free Estonian language learning places. We see that such a situation can create great tensions in society. " I ask how you comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U238	Thank you. Yeah, I've read that letter. It was in my mailbox. It must be acknowledged that we have not made too good progress in teaching the Estonian language through these three decades. We may not have always had as much money as we needed, and perhaps not everyone has always had as much enthusiasm for learning the language as it needed. There are a number of important reasons why war refugees are teaching the language. Firstly, if they have come to Estonia to escape the war, it is, of course, necessary to know the language of the country to which they have come in order to better integrate and adapt. It also provides an opportunity to enter the labour market quickly and to manage itself. Of course, teaching A1 language is a good start for them. If a person wishes to acquire Estonian citizenship and, for example, to complete language courses for this purpose, there are, of course, certain possibilities and limits here with the support of the state. But the language has not always been learned with so-called state support. There are also a great number of Estonians whose home language is not Estonian and who are supplementing their language skills in language schools. It was only today or yesterday that I watched as to whether it would be possible to learn Estonian. Depending on the language school, the price is around €500.700 for passing the A1 level. Of course, there is also a mechanism here that if a person performs the citizenship sex successfully, the state will compensate him for this money to a certain extent. But, of course, the language environment is also extremely important when it comes to learning and learning the language. In addition to the usual courses, there are language cafés, language clubs and [other] language friend programs. So not only can the language be acquired through the digital channel or in the classroom, but these opportunities are broader and there are also environments supporting independent learning. I believe that everyone who wants to learn Estonian will find a way to do this in one way or another. If the focus of the question is whether we could channel more money into this area for those people who have been here for a long time, perhaps a decade, maybe three decades, then yes, I think so. Proficiency in the Estonian language is very important if you live in Estonia and want to do well on your own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U239	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your development strategy has very little talk about cultural heritage [in relation to] heritage conservation. I have a question, or I have an example first. In Paide, a unique five - chamber lime kiln from the 14th century was discovered during the excavation in the heritage reserve area of Paide Vallimäe, and one heritage conservation officer alone ordered it to be destroyed, i.e. destroyed by a cave. The Penal Code provides for a maximum term of imprisonment of five years for such an act. I have a question: does your development strategy also intend to pay attention to heritage protection so that acts such as those in this case do not happen again? Are you going to do something about this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U241	Thank you for informing me and asking me a question. I'm not familiar with this particular event, I'm sure I can check that information. It is true, however, that the damage to heritage is punishable by criminal penalties. That's right, that's right. But such decisions are made by someone alone, I think, not competent to make. If any defensive regulations have had to be reviewed as a minister, I have had to sign them some times, then this decision has always been based on a proposal from the Commission. I don't know if you can do that on your own. Of course, such sensitivities must be reviewed by the Commission, because the more people there are, the more opinions there are. But we must not rush our heritage with questions about architecture's heritage, cultural heritage, because with every ruined museum or architectural object, a piece of our history will be permanently destroyed. So these issues must be dealt with with with extreme caution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U242	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U243	Thank you, good minister. I'm asking about the war crisis. The war has led, to some extent or even to a large extent, to the disruption of our cultural ties with the Russian Federation, both at national and political level, as well as at economic level. There are probably quite a number of companies in Estonia that have built their business model on [created] cultural ties with Russia, either by taking our artists there or by bringing [their] artists here. Do you have an overview of the impact of so-called cultural sanctions on our entrepreneurs in the cultural and creative sectors? What is your advice to them? And here I asked for another part of this same subject: how has this interruption of cultural ties with Russia affected our integration climate? Do you have reviews, studies or other knowledge of how the impact of this has changed our integration mathematics, integration landscape?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U244	Thank you. We do not yet have very in-depth analyses or reports on the [effect] of this war of just over two months. As far as the disruption of cultural ties is concerned, yes, I think that in the first hours of the active phase of this war, we, along with colleagues in the ministry, made such a decision supported by a number of organisations in the field, so that, in a situation where Russia is conducting bloody aggression, we cannot under any circumstances have contact with them in culture, sports or any other area of our responsibility. We have also informed the Russian Federation in writing about this and said that our conventional cooperation projects have been put to a standstill until the situation is different. As regards the fact that [war] has an economic impact on the cultural sector, yes, of course it does. Many cultural operators have made long-term plans. There are some who have planned concerts before the beginning of the active phase of the war. Our position has been very clear that, in a situation where Estonian hospitals have said that they are ready to receive the wounded from Ukraine, we cannot in any way welcome artists from Russia and Belarus on our stage. Of course, it causes economic damage to those who have usually brought our cultural enthusiasts also to Russian artists, be they singers or dancers. Of course, they have suffered economic damage in the same way, but they have not made these moral decisions themselves. They have stated that in a war situation, they must reconsider their plans. And I do not know that there would be many who, after 24 February, would be making plans with the participation of Russian and Belarusian artists. Cultural organisers have understood the position of the state; they have come with it. For its part, the country has also made certain decisions, such as the two Russian singers Gagarina and Kirkorov. They have been refused entry by the State, despite the fact that at least one of them has an EU citizen's passport in his pocket. There has been a lot of talk in the press about whether we do something or not. Well, every step of the Ministry of the Interior, who is important to this [the subject] decision, does not always communicate when [the decision] is still in the process of work. Once we have achieved a situation where, on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, restrictions on entry have been applied to these citizens, it can be said that the state has made its decision. There are certain processes that [publicly] do not communicate every step. But I hope that our cultural organisers will find enough artists to bring to the audience here, too, and that the economic damage is not so great. We have an Internet meeting with cultural organisers every Friday morning for more than a week, and we exchange information for an hour. This format gives us the opportunity to communicate and monitor the situation. Of course, for ourselves, we are still preparing an overview of the tickets for events and events that are still on the market today. But what's it all gonna be? I guess time will give you a little bit of a discussion. By now, since 24 February, it has been difficult and difficult for people who have changed a great deal in the war. I believe that our cultural organisers also adapt to the situation that there are countries from which it is no longer worth inviting artists to perform here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U245	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U246	Thank you. Dear Minister, I can ask you two questions today, and I will devote the other one to supporting top sports. In fact, last year, before the adoption of the state budget, we changed the Gambling Tax Act. In the course of this, a specific target grant for top sport or Olympic preparation projects [to be paid] was abolished and instead the support must now be obtained from the state budget. The result of this was that according to the Ministry of Culture's own calculations, top sports subsidies may decrease. And now I ask that I see that 2021 is marked by a very good, decent increase in support. Perhaps it is a little early to ask, but has this change had an impact on top sports grants in 2022? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Have you been able to evaluate it at the Ministry of Culture yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U247	Thank you. The impact of this funding is, of course, [see]. As I pointed out in my speech, we have never had such a title award medal in history in one year. But here on the remote, I can certainly praise my predecessors for at least ten years when I talk about financing sport. If we look at the figures for sport funding, we will see that in ten years the sport budget has increased five times. Step by step, these decisions have been made. All the ministers who have been [in this profession] before me have considered sport to be important. I think we're going to continue the same trend, whether it's an achievement sport or a lot of talk about exercise. Of course, funding for sport is important, and as has been mentioned here, not only because of the positive emotion that we have received from the Olympic Games or other title competitions, but also because of the improvement of public health indicators. Mental health indicators are also important because there is a healthy spirit in the whole body. The importance of sport is certainly what must be borne in mind when drawing up the budget. Of course, there are different sources of funding for sport. We have also been thinking that the Cultural Endowment could, for example, partly move professional sport out of the Ministry of Culture's own budget, so that other sports projects could receive more support, such as those concerning mobility. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U248	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U249	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Very honourable Minister! You well or positively described how we have grown over the years. Data available to me, statistics, various studies, just looking back at COVID, doesn't support it. But let it be what it is. I see two former fine ministers of culture in our circle, and I remember quite a few good, strong things in both cases that they did during their reign. Would you, good minister, like to say what could be the three big things, three big areas to do for culture, within the time given to you? I very much hope that one of them is a movement rarity. You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U250	Thank you. You guessed it. Indeed, recreation is important. I'm not just saying this right now because you like it, but I've said it before. The rarity of movement is indeed very important, both in our actions and in our budgetary perspective. Secondly, I can certainly point out the issue of our freelance social guarantees, for example, that people who carry out cultural activities can pursue their beloved profession and should not change their profession or profession solely because it does not bring bread on the table. Of course, the participation of young people in culture and the participation of people in culture at all could also be highlighted. However, we do not have room for more [for more than three] basic payments and basic needs in the whole cultural and sporting sector. Life is getting more expensive, as we have seen from different tables and curves, and it is quite difficult to keep up with that. Of course, our cultural institutions need more money for basic funding, not only to cover the cost of maintaining the so-called 'cartage', but also to leave room and money for substantial activities. So this, too, is an important area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U251	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tiit! We still have not received an answer to when money will eventually be found, enough money for coach wages to rise, and when the state will restore support for the activities of children and young people. But I'm trying happiness on the third subject, which is also very close to my heart, it's a heritage defense. In addition to the heritage repository, there are many other things that need money in the field of heritage conservation. As we know, there have been major cuts and redundancies in this area. I specifically ask: is there, and how much money is going to be raised to clean up the buildings that are protected and to pay the necessary support for this? And I ask even more specifically: when will the state finally find enough money to liquidate one honourable debt and fix the other church at our age, the Pöide Church? When?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U253	Thank you. It is difficult to say the dates, because it is not all up to one minister, as you know very well as a political player. I couldn't help but hear the word "cutbacks" on the matter when you were talking about heritage conservation. I dare say no. If we look at the budget of the National Heritage Board as well as the number of staff in time dynamics[, you can see] a very clear slope. I don't know if any other public authority can boast of such a significant rise as the National Heritage Board. I'm not going to go on paper right now to give you the exact percentage and not get lost. But the amount of resources given to the National Heritage Board for personnel and activities is significant. The Pöide Church has received support over the years. He has been taken to a satisfactory position, but there would certainly be a reason to provide more resources. If I remember correctly, I'm gonna have a visit to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa in May, so I'm gonna go check out this little parish as far as I know it's small. Either way, that's where I'm going. In 2005, the National Heritage Board had 50 employees, compared to 74 in 2021. This was said in retrospect to a question of resources that concerns heritage conservation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U254	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U255	Thank you. Good minister! This is not a mistake made directly in your time, but your predecessors did not take an active role or rather took such a comfortable position, which led the Committee on Culture here in the Riigikogu finally to make a decision on the central floor, without considering what was actually possible and what was not, as far as cultural capital investments are concerned. You are, by law, the chairman of the board of cultural capitals, and the competence that exists in the ministry should be introduced as a matter of urgency, so that you understand what is possible and what is not. We now have the decision of the Riigikogu, in which Süku blocks all of the following investments, even though the money is released. And we don't know how long it's going to be about Narva. At the same time, Rakvere is ready to swoop, the film campus is ready to use the money immediately. What do you see as a solution? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And what are you gonna do about this sweater?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U256	Thank you. Here we are following the will of the honourable legislator, who has put the word'stress line' into this decision, in other words, the wording of Parliament is based on a ranking for these objects. What can be done? Of course, I have been in contact with the so-called founders or interested persons of various sites, both the Mayor of Rakvere and the city of Tallinn, whom I have encountered on the way to the workman's route, and of course the readiness to start these objects is different. We have discussed with the cultural capital the issues of how to move at the best possible pace, because some of the objects are about to be put into the ground, the paperwork has been done, some take some time, but in some cases it is [need] that the money numbers and the need are not reduced, but larger, so that construction will probably be more expensive tomorrow and the day after tomorrow than it is today. The funds themselves are available, as far as they are forecast, and today's account balance on cultural capital is not to be denied. Besides, keeping money is also a cost. We have discussed this issue with the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu to see if there is any reason to open the Cultural Capital Act in order to correct one number. In fact, the law allows for up to two objects at a time. My proposal to the Commission has been that we could build three objects at a time, for example. That would be the solution for us to move forward at a faster and better pace. The current manager of cultural capital also shares this idea. We have also looked at our money forecasts, flows forecasts in the Council, and we believe that this could be one way forward. But as you mentioned, indeed, Tartu is the first in the ranking. The good mayor of Tartu and his team recently went to the Kula Council to talk about their plans. Yes, their paperwork will take some time and therefore Rakvere and Tallinn are waiting. But when I come back to the beginning of the answer, I repeat: the Riigikogu has set a ranking list.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U257	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. This was a very good overview of the implementation of sport policy until 2030 and specifically last year. Very interesting reading! My question is that, for the last two years, both the cultural and sports sectors have been in a completely different situation than in previous years, and I very much hope that in the coming years too. I ask you this personal question: what has been the most important lesson or lessons in these two years for sport and cultural policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U259	Thank you. First of all, for this overview, I certainly congratulate my colleagues on your part. Indeed, the people of the Ministry of Culture have put it together well. But what are the lessons? It is difficult to say only one or two, because both concert organisers and performance agencies, as well as some orchestras, have had different lessons. Many have been affected by the corona crisis. Perhaps it is worth pointing out here that the crisis is uniting people in the same way, and the lesson is that the exchange of information between us should be better, the mobility of information should be better. This is certainly an important [hour of study]. Of course, it also [is an important lesson] that if there is a difficult time, the state will come to the aid. In the size of 72 million, the Republic of Estonia has put its cultural and sporting sectors in support of this difficult period of COVID. Of course, this is due to the fact that no one is being left behind and that when the COVID crisis is over, we would have an audience again in the hall and actors on stage. The lesson is also how to make the best possible freelance support system. As Mr Saaremäe said earlier here, our freelance topic is extremely important. It is also a lesson that during the crisis, the money that went to support freelance artists was increased with very, very large leaps. It is such a small view of things that surely have good reason to view as lessons. But just like some orchestras who could, for example, act calmly and record during the COVID, writers did not have to be in contact and could continue to do their work. However, theatres with [necessary] contact with the audience were much more vulnerable. So I believe that there are also a lot of different lessons for the various actors in the sector to take with them. In the country's view, it is certainly very good that politicians and officials have a sense of what is actually happening in the cultural field. The exchange of information [is important] - we need to be very, very well aware of what happens in these people's activities and their daily activities when times are difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U260	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U261	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good minister! You spoke in your review of these points, too, for children with a cultural background. You were glad that EUR 1 million had gone there, even though 4 million went off with a cut. [This 1 million] certainly does not compensate for [the cut] because we all know that a child's exercise and education of interest begin very clearly either in the family or in preschool or in school. It is possible to start playing violin as an adult, but such virtuosity will certainly not be achieved. I have a question[that is] a little connected to this cultural pack. Perhaps you speak in a few words about how much this has been requested and how this application is even possible for the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U262	Thank you. Indeed, the cultural border is one of the measures implementing EUR 1 million from that year. My predecessor's request was somewhat higher when the budget was put together, and that is, in fact, what we want to move closer to after this first year. The cultural border includes a bounty per student depending on the location of his school, it is in some major centre or in a smaller municipality of Estonia. [Within the framework of this measure] study visits can be made to theatre, museum, concert and also to cinemas, where content supporting the study programme can certainly be found, [and these moves] should enrich the learning process. It would be very reasonable to find a connection with some of the subjects taught and go to a theatre, a movie, or a concert [to see something] that would also be related to the class. Of course, the teacher can make his choice and then go to class. This system is such that the schoolmaster, or local government, receives this money in his budget because of the amount of the bounty [of the size]. Of course, schools can make their applications within this limit. If everything goes well this year and both students and teachers think that this is a good measure, and these funds are being used, then we could move from today's [amount that is], depending on the region, between EUR 8 and EUR 12 per child, for example, in the future to EUR 53 per child. This would mean that in the future the volume of the cultural pack could be 6 to 7 million. Of course, private schools are also taking part. I know that, for example, Saaremaa schools have already introduced it nicely. Last week, I sent additional information to the local government leaders on the use of cultural facilities. I believe that participation in culture, as I pointed out in my speech, will help to grow into a good and smart member of society. And if we can put more resources here, what could be more fun for these children than, for example, to take a class from Tallinn to Pärnu theatre or come from Kos to Tallinn to see some good movie at Artis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U263	Minister, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U265	Please, please! And now, good colleagues, I'm opening negotiations. As we once foresee, representatives of the political groups will have the opportunity to be present. Please ask Jaak Valge, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U266	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U267	Yeah, of course. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Dear listeners, The general propaganda rule says that if it is not possible to report victories and the situation is bad, communication must focus on some positive details and talk about a bright future. And that's what we heard in that report right now. At 20:26 p.m., more than half an hour ago, a victorious press release from the Ministry of Culture also arrived. But that's it. I will, of course, immediately make a concession that it would have been difficult for you, alone and only a little time in office, to demonstrate your achievements in a situation where all the government's other activities are counterproductive. Now the contents. See, since the "Estonia 2035" strategy gives direction to the government and also to the Ministry of Culture, it would have been self-evident that this strategy's objectives, objectives and indicators are used in the review of its implementation. Unfortunately, the Minister did not excel at using them, on the contrary. The Minister's statement that there has been an increase in the proportion of people who view permanent contact with residents of different nationalities does not tell us anything. The fact that 18,000 people took part in the joint activities of people with different language and cultural backgrounds in 2021 is also a completely empty statement if we do not know its definition and do not know whether it has increased in [compared to] previous years or where it has changed in general. However, the strategy "Estonia 2035" contains specific metrics with which this process can be clearly characterised. Namely, Estonians' contacts with people of other nationalities and people of other nationalities' contacts with Estonians' presence or absence of these contacts are estimated according to how often a person has interacted with a native language different from his or her own. Unfortunately, of these figures, we only know that Estonians had on average 1.8 contacts in 2015, 1.6 in 2017 and 1.7 in 2020. These figures were 2.5, 2.5 and 2.0, respectively, for non-Estonians. Unfortunately, we do not know the latest figures. However, we do know the tendency, and this trend is exactly the opposite of the impression we had from the report by the Minister of Culture. The Minister further stated that the offer of language courses and the organisation of language courses for adults would be continued, and various opportunities for practicing the Estonian language in the Estonian language environment would be supported and created. There was no overview in the thesis or speech again, and no measurable commitment seemed to have been made, unlike the Estonian 2035 strategy, where metrics exist. Namely, the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue and use Estonian in the population. According to Statistics Estonia, the share of native speakers in the population has fallen in 2021. I would like to point out that the decline in this ratio has not been reflected by the Ukrainian refugees, which cannot be justified by war refugees. Let's go. The percentage of people using Estonian language has not even been provided to us. We do not even know which methodology is used to calculate this figure. The strategy "Estonia 2035" states that the new methodology and indicator's baseline and target levels will be added in 2021, but this has not been done. It hasn't been done! The government's commitments have not been fulfilled. On the basis of current data, I can only conclude that the government has not made progress in terms of the use and integration of Estonian language. No, it's not. Moreover, I dare to conclude that there has also been a failure in the implementation of the Constitution, because it is not possible to preserve and promote the Estonian nation, language and culture if the number and proportion of the Estonian national culture falls. This should be the first issue to be addressed by the Minister of Culture and not only by the Minister of Culture, but by the whole government. The thesis has claimed that the humanitarian crisis caused by the Ukrainian war is an examination of the integration of Estonian society, and it is reported that the Ministry of Culture focuses on social cohesion, adaptation of people and long-term integration when planning its activities. In your reply, you spoke further about the integration of refugees and the acquisition of Estonian citizenship in their case. Here I have to refer again to the analysis by the University of St Andrews, according to which, if only 10% of five million Ukrainian refugees return to [home country], the Ukrainian population will have fallen by 33% by 2040 and the number of children by 56%. This means a demographic disaster for Ukraine. A disaster! But now more than five million people have escaped from Ukraine. If we really want to help Ukraine, we must help refugees during the war, but not participate in preparing for the demographic disaster in Ukraine, or try to perpetuate refugees to Estonia. Finally. In the government review of the implementation of the action plan "Estonia 2035" we can read that the rate of participation in cultural life has fallen, and you have also noted that. But unlike you in the government review of the execution of "Estonia 2035" it is acknowledged that the problem is more general, the decline in cultural consumption cannot be blamed solely on COVID, as your speech may have seemed. This should actually be problem number two that the Ministry of Culture should be dealing with. I would also like to remind you that problem number 1, which the government should address, is that the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue will not decrease, because the Estonian language, nationality and culture cannot be successfully preserved or promoted if the number and proportion of those who use it declines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U269	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Dmitri Dmitriyev. Please! (Dmitri Dmitriev asks for more time.) Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall and the transmission monitors! The Minister of Culture gave a thorough overview of what was happening in his administration. A lot has been done, but there are also challenges for the future. The Minister's emphasis was on integration, performing arts and cultural heritage. The last paragraph of the presentation was dedicated to sport, like in newspapers where sports news can be found on the back page. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to focus on the part of sport policy. I agree with the Minister, who emphasised first that the target set for the Estonians to have reached the level of the Nordic countries' mental and physical balance by 2030. This means that at least two thirds of the population is moving and doing sport. I believe there is political consensus on this issue in this Chamber. However, reaching the goal means solving a number of unknown equations. The possibilities, or infrastructure, should not be left behind. The state, local authorities and the private sector have invested well in health trails, sports halls, swimming pools and sports clubs. When driving around Tallinn, many gyms are seen in every part of the city, and all over Estonia is opening up more and more free-of-charge power campuses and light traffic roads. We are also making good progress with the project to build football halls launched on the initiative of the Centre Party. The football halls have been completed in Haapsalu, Viljandi and Tartu. Similar sports objects are nearing completion in other Estonian cities, including Narva and Jõhvi. Against this background, the press continues to publish stories about little children who are moving and overweight. However, the Defence Forces say that the physical form of young people serving time is poor, to put it mildly, and it is difficult to chin themselves even once. Why, then, do our people not take advantage of the opportunities they have created for their own health? Personally, I think it is wrong to force and whip someone into sports. The biggest cookie is a personal example and a way of thinking. The example of parents and top athletes plays a major role in young people's habits. Here I would like to highlight one of the planned developments to achieve the general objective of sport policy, which stipulates that mobility and sport are the bearer of spirituality, coherence and positive values. In 2021, the Government of the Republic approved the concept of promoting mobility and launched an in-depth mobility survey. We strongly support this enterprise, with two hands. However, in order to implement the concept of promoting mobility, it would also be worth considering the designation and support by the state of regional centres of recreation. If we have a great Tehvandi Sports Centre in South-East Estonia and in South-West Estonia there is a Christmas Mountain Sports Centre, similar centres with the support of the state and fulfilling their purpose could also be located in north-east and northwest Estonia. In Kohtla-Järve, for example, a fitness centre was recently completed and an ice hall passed through the renewal course. If you add ski and health trails in Pannjärv, the prerequisites for developing the state-of-the-art North-East-Estonian fitness centre have been established. I am pleased that cultural representatives, not only in terms of sport, but also in terms of filmmakers and theatre managers, are focusing not only on asking for grants, but also on thinking more broadly and looking at the whole value chain. There is a lot of talk about cruise tourists in Estonia, but sports tourism has received little unearned attention. Rally Estonia, Tallinn Runsumathon and Tartu Skisamaraton are good examples of how money invested in sports events creates added value in both economic and reputational terms. I think I am not exaggerating when I say that this winter Tallinn became the capital of world figure skating. Tondiraba Icehall hosted several title competitions when different circumstances coincide. TV broadcasts reached different ends of the world and visitors were able to get to know the city of Tallinn. We can manage the big competitions well and we could be even bolder in hosting international sporting events. Against this background, it is sad to note that we did not get a government-level agreement with our coalition partner to support the organisation of a tennis WTA tournament in Tallinn. However, there is no need to lose hope, and I really hope that we will soon be able to hear positive news on this issue as well. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the qualifications of coaches. In the case of football, a lot has been said recently about the competence of Estonian youth trainers. The public wage subsidy will undoubtedly benefit the coaches. However, in order to raise the remuneration of our coaches to a new height, this profession must be valued at [equally] the level of the teacher's. This means, however, that you have to go to university in advance to earn a teacher's salary. After all, we want our children to be taught by highly educated professionals in schools. We could also raise the bar to the same height in future for interest groups and sports clubs. There's a healthy spirit in the whole body. It is precisely this simple way of thinking that we could base our actions on, because lack of physical activity affects not only the health or social sectors, but also internal security and defence capacity, and economic development is slowing down. A sporty person is a happy person and does and can do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U271	Thank you. I now ask Üllar Saaremäe, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! A little extra time maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U272	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U273	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U274	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The previous speakers have spoken positively, though negatively, analysed your presentation today, both on the one hand and on the other. I'm not getting so spread out, I'm focusing on a particular subject. We could talk a lot, talk about everything, especially what concerns me personally, also professionally. But I'm focusing on keeping the tradition of singing and dancing. Listening to the Minister's answer to my question of how, in the long term, the future development of choir leaders and dance leaders, the continuation of their follow-up, I received very positive [messages] from the Minister, which I very much welcome. But, unfortunately, there was a poetry in his head that began to haunt: "The left hand does not know what made it better. It's the thirdest thing I've got." Culture and education go hand in hand, it's not a secret to anyone. Since the Committee on Culture is not just about cultural issues, but also about educational issues, I am very sorry, but I am going to move for a moment to a bill sent by another ministry. This second ministry is the Ministry of Education and the bill number is 579, the Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act. The Estonian Choir Association has sent a proposal where, among other things, it says: "It is not a great exaggeration to say that the music lessons of kindergarten are the foundation of our song festival tradition only discovered as early as possible and developed in the right direction to ensure that we have enough musical people at both recreational and professional levels in the future." The [proposal] of the Early Childhood Education and Childcare Act provides for a number of changes, including those concerning music training. The proposal states that the current Early Childhood Education Act obliges the Minister to appoint a minimum number of pedagogical staff in kindergartens, and the current regulation of the Minister of Education states that a single full-time music teacher is to be established in child institutions for every two groups of children aged two years and older, for a total of eight groups. However, the new law provides that it may no longer be mandatory and that this decision should be left to the decision of the day care manager or kindergarten manager. As a result, [Estonian Choir Association] wishes the Early Childhood Education Act to maintain the requirement to lay down, by decree of the Minister, the minimum composition of the pedagogical staff of pre-school children's institutions, including the minimum burden of music teachers. This is important because several points are read out in [the letter]. "It ensures a more secure tradition of singing than the sustainability of a cultural phenomenon of national importance'. Why am I talking about this law now? When we recall the same poetry line I quoted, it seems that the Ministry of Culture has a very positive and hopeful atmosphere regarding the tradition of singing. But you don't know what the Ministry of Education and Research wants to do. We can make far-reaching plans, set goals, whether or not the same "Estonia 2035" and try to achieve these goals, but if, right here, we are creating draft laws that go against each other and hinder [the attainment of the targets], are we not just doing the streaking of the wind? But the Fatherland still stands for education, language and culture, and that's my middle comment on bill 579 was just an indication that we're dealing with a common thing. Long live culture! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U275	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U276	Hello, everyone! And thank you very much, Minister of Culture, for this thorough presentation, which was quite good to hear! However, as in the Committee on Culture, we have dealt with you in the past, it is clear that the cultural field has faced very difficult times. He has had to survive the corona crisis and is now [hitting] to the situation caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, which means a special focus on our state budget. Culture has been hit by a number of crises. The pandemic cultural sector did not even get underfoot when it had to face a new situation in our security. Indeed, it was another blow to an area whose existence holds invisible but very strong threads together throughout our society. The operational constraints of recent years have led to a rather depressing situation for many capable cultural promoters and cultural champions. On the one hand, it is as if the expectation of their actions is very high, but, unfortunately, very few people continue to benefit. The role of culture in the current war situation is increasingly important in order to strengthen, encourage and support us, shape common values and maintain peace. Culture today faces a number of new challenges which deserve attention and which are not really reflected in this development strategy, but are new phenomena that have grown on the move. Like my previous speaker here on the board, I am not going to be very scattered in my review, but I am focusing on specific themes, one of which is the creative industries. A study by the Estonian Institute of Economics was published in mid-April, which revealed that creative industries play an important role in Estonian culture, in creating a good living environment and in the development of regions. The total revenue of the creative sector and the number of enterprises, as well as their contribution to export and internationalisation, have increased. What surprised and what people should know more was that the value added created in the creative industries sector was EUR 605.5 million in 2019. That's a lot of money. I hope that this knowledge will create new insights, an understanding that culture will not only be cost-effective, and we will be able to see a wider picture, see culture as an investment that helps to create values, create a sense of cohesion, strengthen mental health and give impetus to all areas that in turn push culture. The presentation by the Minister of Culture today also revealed that the creative industries are focused on supporting the relaunch. This is very positive and important to know, but unfortunately it has not yet been achieved today that proposals within the field had to be taken into account in substance, listened to their voices and taken concrete steps to that end. Culture is expensive. Our culture is expensive if we want to live in an independent country. This should be remembered more often everywhere, even at the table of the government. Of course, we welcome many of the things that the Ministry of Culture has been able to do, from cultural heritage, the promotion of exercise, the long stretch of the law on performing institutions, which, by the way, are still in progress, and other issues that did not reach light today. But a few things are still below the critical limit. These are the same launch of creative industries, a clear strategy for digital culture, participation in culture, which is in decline despite the [regression] outbreak of COVID, and, of course, these metrics, which have been discussed today, have not been uniform and clear. I wish strength to the Minister and all the good employees of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U277	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U278	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, as many of us as are left here! Sorry, good specialists at the Ministry of Culture, there's more of you on that balcony than we are in this room. But we can take comfort in the fact that the Riigikogu can also follow this important discussion through screens. I would like to continue to thank you here. Thank you to the Sports Department of the Ministry of Culture for the very good overview that has been used in recent years. And it is particularly nice that there is also a note section here so that those who participate in the discussion can write their notes right here. I will start this time with sport, because this notebook is on sports issues, and I thank the Minister for the recognition of ministers who have curated sport over the last ten years, who have managed to combat five times as much support from the government today over the years. It can be said that, after Andrus Ansip, who is known to have become famous with the quote he has said as Prime Minister, that state funding for sport is inherent in totalitarian countries and should remain on the shoulders of private companies, put down the Prime Minister's office, it has been very easy for everyone. I guess this is the kind of opening that took place after that, because no other prime minister has been so resolute about the field of sport. But funny. What's very sympathetic is that you want to monitor the movement in depth, and I very much hope that the will that is written in the plans will result in a qualitative leap in the exercise. As the Minister repeatedly said, reaching the Nordic level would be most grateful both for our public health and perhaps for the rise in our index of happiness. I very much hope that this issue, raised by Helmen Kütt in his question, is that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and universities, will, of course, find the possibility of systematically introducing this module or part to the training of supervisors and trainers in the future, which will help to see those who have different needs, i.e. involving people with disabilities in activities where we are accustomed to moving according to a certain standard. It often requires special skills, and it makes sense to systematically [teach]. [I will also talk] about the issues that have been addressed today and the issues that are currently in the air. I very much hope that the [Ministry of Culture] will help the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has had a rather long tooth, which concerns all this confusion about Russian artists. So who are we sanctioning? Whom do we expect in Estonia and who do we not? A clear position could be taken here. At least the entire Luzhnik Stadium, who went to support the annexation of Crimea, should be placed on the list of sanctions, not just two names. We need that clarity. On the other hand, I hope that the Ministry will not go along, or vice versa, precisely to keep a clear line between Russian culture and those who support the imperialist ambitions that Putin represents. We are not [may] going to abandon the Russian culture or panic that the Lord God, now the Russian writer's book is no longer to be read. I think this is where you need to say your word and calm people down. I'm asking for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U279	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U280	Kulka's investments are not helping if three objects can be put into work at the same time. Movie campus in fifth place isn't getting anywhere, but it could go to work. In addition, you are taking a political risk. The Reform Party has already decoupled the gambling tax from receipts and may do so in the case of a kulka if you open the Kulka Act. Feel free to explain why the Riigikogu has to reconsider its decision: this decision went wrong, and went wrong because the ministers did not take the initiative. You have this expertise, you have experts who can tell you what's done and what's not. The Committee on Culture does not have it. You're gonna have to bring this up. Support for interest activities. I really hope that the Minister's critical mind will be preserved, and you will stand by it being put back [truncated amount]. I would like to mention one more point: the Media Services Act. This topic stopped for two years because we had the government that it was. People who used to run some very dubious, sometimes like Putin's points of conversation today blocked it in the government. But then the new government came and for a year they were allowed to block it in the Riigikogu. And then, rather than say decisively that listen to your friends, the time is critical, the government can link it to trust, we will accept it, and let us not allow questionable compromises to be made, because the hostilities should be in there to effectively ban the channels of propaganda, you went into dubious compromises. It is also a matter for the Minister of Culture to keep an eye on such things and not to go on a slippery path. Similarly, [it is the responsibility of the Minister of Culture] to ensure the spread of ETV+ to all people, through all operators and through all channels of cooperatives, and to increase the capacity of TTJA. I hope this will be dealt with. I understand that the Minister has only been in office for six months, and in that time, of course, he cannot be responsible for all these things or for the mistakes made a year, two or three ago. I'm sure I can't catch up on everything either, especially at this crazy time. But I highly recommend to the Minister, however, that the notes that your house is doing should be read through. Unfortunately, the minimum for trainers is only EUR 1020, not EUR 1300. And this is the one place with which I would like you to act on a political level, because this money can only be squeezed out by a minister in the government. If people are not paid if creators, cultural workers, leaders of the song festival movement, coaches who train our children, motivate them and are often role models, managers of interest and even the same experts who sit on the balcony are not paid an incentive salary, then they will not pay (the manager will ring the bell again). talk about culture and sport and the future of our country for a long time. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These people have to get a good salary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U281	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. As we have foreseen, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. I thank the Minister for Culture, I thank the Ministry of Culture, I thank the members of the Riigikogu for this debate concerning the presentation of "Estonia 2035" on a long-term strategy in the field of culture. That concludes the fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-02_U282	Good fellows! Let's keep moving fast. There is a free microphone and everyone can register for speaking in a free microphone after a hammer hit. There's no call. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Thank you.
