ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We'll start the Thursday session. Today we have the 7th working week of the VII session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I don't see a wish like that. Then we'll do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U2	A total of 66 ambassadors registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U3	Today we have one item on the agenda. The draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, 424, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is in the middle of a second reading. I call Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U4	Honourable colleagues. It is my task to give you an overview of the 424 procedures of the draft law amending the law on consumer protection in the lead committee between the Economic Commission and the second reading. I would remind you that this very important draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 September last year and its first reading in this Chamber took place on 10 November. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, 24 November. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Merchants Association, the Estonian E-Commerce Association, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, the Estonian Association of Information Technology and Telecommunications, the Estonian Banking Association, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Consumer Protection Association and the Estonian Consumer Cooperation Chamber were informed about the draft procedure in Parliament. The Commission was approached with the opinion of the Estonian Merchants Association of Business Organisations mentioned above. Similarly, the initiator's representative presented some proposals of a technical nature to the Economic Commission. A number of working groups were prepared to deal with the draft committee, which included not only the representatives of the initiator, but also the Estonian Traders' Association and the specialists of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Board. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of this draft for a second reading at its meeting on 22 February this year. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as a representative of the Traders' Association, took part in this meeting. There was a long debate, which all members of the Riigikogu can read more about by reading the minutes of the meeting of the Economic Committee. Let's just say that the debate focused mainly on the fact that this bill raises different financial penalties for companies that violate the requirements of the law. The aim is, of course, to protect consumers and ensure fair trade. However, the representative of the Merchants' Association explained to the Commission that they considered that an increase in these rates was not necessary and raised a number of arguments in support of this position. The representatives of the Ministry confirmed that, as a rule, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority does not impose fines on economic operators, is limited to a warning and these ceilings are intended rather for exceptional cases, in particular for online commerce, where the amount of damage caused to consumers by a breach of the law may give rise to such penalties. It was also explained to the Commission that the increase in the level of fines is due to the requirement of the directive to be transposed. The directive provides for a maximum penalty of up to EUR 2 million or 4% of the annual turnover. According to the Ministry, this rate cannot be applied in Estonia. Amendment 2 to the draft proposal contains a compromise reduction of the proposed financial penalty ceiling, which was reached in previous negotiations and accepted by the Commission. We therefore have two amendments to the draft, both of which received the unanimous support of all the members of the Commission present in the Commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading today, 10 March, and the second reading closed. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading shall be made by 16 March and a final vote shall be taken. I am happy to respond to the specific questions of my fellow Members. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U5	Ladies and gentlemen will be happy to ask. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U6	Good manager! Good waitress! Here's what I'm gonna ask. Yesterday we had here the Minister of Justice who reported on the quality of our legislation. Here were the conclusions, and I now ask for the main conclusions [on]. As a rule, there is no analysis of the constitutionality of the draft draft in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. Is it there? The second question: as a rule, there is no plan to develop, does this matter have any? And thirdly, is its legal quality and comprehension in Estonian sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U7	Hi! Thank you very much for these questions. First you mentioned the Justice Department. I would like to point out that in the Commission's debate this issue was actually raised in relation to whether the increase in these fine rates in this way would not be detrimental to the legitimate expectations of economic operators. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications pointed out that the draft had been agreed with the Ministry of Justice. However, as far as your other questions are concerned, how clear they are, I can assure you that no member in the Commission complained that it did not understand the text of this law or that it was worded in such a way that it would not be understood what is precisely being amended by this draft. However, the other issues you mentioned were not raised in the Commission's discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U8	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U9	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had dealt with this, it would have been said immediately that this online trading venue in the principle is of no importance at all, and the place in itself does not matter at all. And, of course, they would have all understood that in that committee. But I'm asking. You've still wanted to raise fines. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, is an online trading venue important, not like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where it is not important in principle? And the other one. Please explain to me § 741 "Use of unfairly damaging contractual terms'. We understand that there are reasonable [contract terms], but at what point do reasonable ones become unreasonable? In the meantime, there's just a misunderstanding, isn't there? Understood zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U10	That is a very good question that you have asked. If you are familiar with the debate that took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it also touched on the question that the rapid increase in e-commerce, the share of online trade, its rapid global spread and the international nature, the cross-border nature, of course, will also mean changes in how, how and how we have to protect consumers. You may even realize that there is a real difference between buying a screwdriver from a "corner shop" or buying an electric screwdriver sold over the Internet by an entrepreneur in a third country, the use of which may involve risks and so on. So, in this sense, in the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the presentation of which is my aim, I must mention, however, the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I thought I sensed it, realised that Internet commerce is creating specific challenges, specific problems. Now, the more precise explanation you asked for was not dealt with so thoroughly by the Commission. Unfortunately, I cannot respond further to this on the basis of the Commission's discussions. However, as a more general principle, I can say that [we] received the state's assurance to us and, through it, to the Riigikogu that, of course, in these proceedings, it is not anyone's intention to punish forcefully immediately, but, in the first place, to consult economic operators and find out what the cause of this error is. Maybe it's a technical, accidental mistake that doesn't have to be punished at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U11	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U12	Good manager! Good waitress! I forgot to say that what I quoted was an expert opinion on the report by the Minister of Justice, which made it clear that most of the drafts that we are dealing with here do not have an assessment of constitutionality. And I'll keep quoting. The problem is that they are, as a rule, aimed at limiting the fundamental rights or freedoms of individuals and businesses. In this light, as I understand it, this was a bit discussed in the Commission, but how seriously discussed was Priit Pikamäe, whose name and background I am not going to comment on, according to our legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U13	First of all, I would like to congratulate you on this and quite sincerely. What does this bill do? Takes, for example, the fact that if you go to an e-shop and look for a product there, how these search results are displayed, what an acceptable way and how transparent it must be for you, how these search results are displayed. But also in the context of this draft, it is important to raise the issue of constitutional compliance. I think it's important. I think that in this Chamber we must always look at every draft, even if it is such a technical draft, in this case, regulating Internet commerce, also in the context of the Constitution and in the global context, as you are doing. Your question was how thoroughly this issue was discussed and how thoroughly all this draft was discussed in the committee. I can assure you: very thoroughly. The Commission's last debate was long and substantive, not formal. When you examine the protocol, you will see that there was a serious debate. Before that, working groups gathered to examine the same draft. With regard to the fines which are indeed increasing, and this has indeed been requested by the Government of the Republic, the members of the Commission had many questions and opinions. I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic came to the Riigikogu on 13 September when the Riigikogu now supports the amendments tabled by the Commission and the second amendment is not enforced. However, a certain compromise has also been reached with regard to these levels of fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U14	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I also support the free movement of goods across borders and all this distance selling, because we can see that during the pandemic physical shops, sellers were not protected from this mad virus, and buyers were also [reaching goods] made difficult. If you're still in the Corona for two weeks and you can't get [the merchandise], no one can get you anything. Well, there's something about the package. But I'm asking you, how old can you order from now on? Can a nine-year-old order from an e-shop in a third country, for example? Is it limited to age? And is Estonia going to define the variety of goods at some point? Take, for example, the adult shop, some sex shop, isn't it, that [we limit] some trick colors or things, that in Estonia, for example, there are no green paint tricks, and they are simply not allowed to cross the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U16	Thank you for this question. You see, right, the Estonian people and their views and interests from the wall to the wall are indeed represented in the Riigikogu, starting with constitutionality and [ending] the color of the tricks. The brief answer is, of course, that this issue was not specifically addressed in the Commission's meeting and in the group's discussions. But raising it is certainly your right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U17	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U18	One simple question relating to the second amendment and the fine rates, which in the current law is EUR 3200. So this is a fine for a legal person. This was initially intended to be replaced by EUR 400000 and reduced to EUR 40000. My question is: since 400,000 were meant for large corporations, now, by reducing it ten times, 40,000, large corporations can rejoice and breathe a little bit easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U19	Thank you. I would say that, first of all, I very much hope that most companies will not be so directly affected by this discussion of the fine rates, because most companies are law-abiding. As the Ministry has repeatedly assured us, it is not the aim of the state to go immediately and in the event of every mistake and to impose a maximum fine. The aim is, however, to identify and eliminate the source of the infringement together with the undertaking. Does an undertaking show good will when damage is caused, whether this damage is compensated, and so on, it all plays a role. But yes, the question of the size of the company is interesting in itself. Members of the Commission also wanted to know why it would be decided whether, for example, a maximum fine of EUR 400 000 or EUR 40 000 would be imposed or lower. In this respect, the Ministry explained that the criteria set out in the Penal Code were applied and that the size of the company did not play a direct role. In particular, on this point, which you mentioned, the EUR 400 000 ceiling that was brought down to 40000 in the Commission's proceedings, was a compromise between the business organisations that requested it, and the state also saw that, specifically in the case of this infringement, a lower penalty rate would in no way undermine the protection of consumers' rights and can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U20	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has expressed its wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who are here, and you, of course, who are doing a very high-quality job further away! Well, I didn't get the answer that age a child could order from an online store. Some kids are allergic or have diabetes or whatever, but I think he can order. This was not discussed by the Commission. Are there any unfair practices that we're talking about here? [For example] You buy yourself a big, tootless marshmallow and there's plenty of foam for your father to shave. Is that unfair or isn't it unfair? Now everyone's got a bullet. Whoo-hoo! Right! (Grunting hands.) Wake up! We have the free movement of goods. But we also have products for adults, for example. When we talk about e-cigarettes and e-liquids, the Estonian state is climbing between and says that this is the green one you can only order, but not the blue one, not the red one, not the yellow one. Only green tricks can you order from an online store for adults. And then Estonia will find other things. I read that protocol. What you're talking about, we have some other material. It's not here. Discussions are always good, I would like to point out. You said I had good questions, but I didn't get an answer. Use of unfair contractual terms. We realize that there is a sense, then we get to zero, and on the other side it's unreasonable. But where does it go from? There's some logic that actually says zero is incomprehension. At the moment when a person doesn't understand the contract at all, even in a small letter, there is no sense. And then when this letter gets bigger, the person begins to understand, and it's a reasonable contract. When different clauses are put down, it becomes unreasonable. But to what extent and how did these sworn heads in the Committee on Economic Affairs get it all? Could this fine be 300 fine units? Well, it's possible, maybe there's a little bit of a thing going on in the committees... But we have to give this coordination here. Where am I going to turn this down to people? When Toomas Kivimägi told us yesterday that the place in itself does not matter at all in principle, I did not understand what was ultimately in principle [important]. I was thinking about commemorating the victims of communist terrorism 78 years ago, I did not get along with that thought, but right now I am looking at this Internet site as extremely important. But does this also apply to branches? I had the honour of being in the previous composition of the Economic Commission, where we dealt with the same thing, that if you order from somewhere, then Europe must become the product at this price, and not you will be directed to the Estonian website, where you will get a much more expensive [choice] of products. In that respect, I am pleased that at least it is no longer there. But [to talk about] how we are banned from some online shops at national level, I will talk again about e-cigarettes and related matters. We can order alcohol, we can buy these tricks from adult stores, all kinds of colors. But I do know, for example, that for e-cigarettes [e-shops], the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has committed that you will never get on their page until [have] authenticated yourself with an ID card. It's actually a pretty good place. I don't know how much you're looking at this SinuToru or YouTube. YouTube's letter came at some point that it was necessary to identify my age, and there were two ways to do so: either I send them a picture of my ID card or a credit card [info]. I refused a day, refused two, went for a week, and then said Google that she didn't even know who I was and where I came from. I refused. Since I've been going through cyber hygiene training, I asked their teachers and they said that really, banks didn't have a contract with Youtube and Google that when they ask, they say your age: yes, Tarmo Kruusimäe is 54 years old. Classic fishing letter. But in the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marek Jürgenson said that, uh, there are pay-per-view services, be safe. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The way we beet some kind of free movement of goods is still a bullet in the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-10_U22	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We also have some amendments, let us examine them. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. The amendments have been examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 424 be completed and the second reading completed. That concludes the agenda. Today's trial is over. Thank you.
