ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Good Internet watchers! Let's start our briefing on February 16th. Let's go through the presence check first. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U2	23 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 78 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and Minister of Culture Tiit Terik. Good fellows! Please note that, since 12 issues have been registered in advance, there is one supplementary question and one supplementary question for each question. As usual, there are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U3	Let's get started. The first question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas. Happy birthday from here too! Reply by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, member of the Government of the Republic, the subject is democracy. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U4	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question is motivated by a sincere concern about the preservation of democracy in Estonia. The Constitution states that Estonia is a democratic state. All the activities of the state apparatus, constitutional institutions and government must be based on this. However, we have seen active action throughout your government's reign, leading us increasingly towards a totalitarian surveillance society and imposing an extremely liberal hard-hand regime. I am talking about the legislative initiatives that have been put forward by today's government and, in part, have already been implemented. I am talking about the Emergency Act, which extends to rescuers the rights of the police in arrest and detention of people, I am talking about the Nets, the Censorship-Creating Media Services Act, which would have muzzled our press and journalists from the superdatabase ABIS, the crossing of religious and moral beliefs of people under the label of equal treatment, and their discrimination, and, of course, the creation of a fresh general Stalinical appeal system that the Minister of Justice, sitting next to you, gave to the proceedings. If you add to this your proposed hate speech law, the result will be catastrophic. Democracy and a free society can no longer be spoken of. I do not agree, and the Estonian people do not agree to live in such a terrible orwellian dystopia, where you may be punished for every word and thought, and where soon, if you continue in the same way, only concentration camps are not available to those whose moral, ethical and world-view preferences do not overlap with yours. Why are you doing this? That's what I'm asking. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U6	Hi! And happy birthday! This description was very succulent in fiction, but it does not correspond to the real situation in Estonia. The government works very closely within the framework of the Constitution and has always followed the Constitution, just as other state institutions have followed the Constitution. I'm just gonna say a few things. Maybe what you're talking about is the ideal world where you want to live if you're in government. Let's see what you did while you were in the government. Then there was a situation where, for example, public gatherings were banned in April 202[0], we had all things closed. That list's pretty long. That's what you did. Secondly, you have made amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which actually gave power to the government and took power away from the Riigikogu, so that the government can make decisions quickly, for example as regards the control measures necessary to prevent and control communicable diseases. We have initiated a change of law in the government in order to involve the Riigikogu more closely, as is appropriate for a democratic state. I very much hope that the EKRE will stand behind and support this draft, which will give the Riigikogu more strength. Now for the hate speech. Hostile speech is a big problem. In fact, what is called an enmity is a very big problem. At the moment, the Constitution provides that hostilities should be punishable. At the same time, we have a penal code that restricts it only if a person is actually hurt. Maybe hate speech is punishable when someone is actually hurt. But why does someone have to get hurt in real life when hatred is incited? We have seen a great many of these moments in history when a picture is first painted that a group or a person is responsible for all problems, for example, and therefore, in order to get rid of all problems, that person or group must be destroyed. We've seen this before, and we really don't want it to happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U7	Now, the question to be specified. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U8	Thank you. Of course, I was expecting you to point your finger at us. We have never tabled any similar drafts restricting the freedom and democracy of society, such as those that I have read here, which are prepared by you and brought here for adoption. These restrictions, which we did indeed in the previous government, were related to the corona, they were linked to an emergency situation, they were temporary, but you have been repressing society and shutting everything down this whole year. Okay, this was a pandemic, but I'm talking about a real democracy, about what you want to do and about what we have in the Constitution. All these drafts that I read here, the creation of an appeal system, the introduction of censorship and the law of hate speech, are precisely the ones that take us back to the totalitarian surveillance society from which we fought ourselves out, we fought free. On the basis of some of these pretexts, you are creating the same orwellian society, because all such hostile appeals, insulting people, slandering people, are actually prohibited, and that is discrimination today as well. But it doesn't matter to you, you want to make it worse, so you can repress people because of words and thoughts. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I ask you again, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U10	Thank you. First of all, I have to correct you. The Act on Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases, which you came up with when you were in the government, on the contrary, said that the government could introduce control measures without declaring an emergency situation. That was what you decided, that was what you supported in the Riigikogu: without an emergency, people's rights can be restricted. Secondly, I want to correct what you said that everything has been shut down in our time. On the contrary, society has been open. When you were in government, there was a state of emergency and public gatherings were banned. There were even two people who wanted to protest. Museums and cinemas were closed, conferences and theatre performances were canceled, sports competitions were banned, recreational trips were stopped, visas were suspended, gyms, saunas, spas and sports clubs were closed, shopping centres were closed, food was allowed to be sold out and so on. I'm coming to the hate speech. You're messing with the angry talk you're very often practicing. This [right], do not be afraid, no one will take away from you; you may still speak angryly. But animosity is something else entirely. Enmity is that you systematically hate. You say hostile appeals and insulting people are forbidden. Then why are you doing this? Why do you call on police officers, for example? Why are your people taking up police families to harass them? That's the way to go. Why are you doing this? If all this is forbidden, why is it so much? Why is it that, by your hatred, you paint a picture that is the enemy who is responsible for all these problems, you call for attacking these people, you say, I do not know that, for example, we are the enemies of the Estonian state? Why are you doing this? We are not the enemies of the Estonian state. We are based on the Constitution. We are based on the election that we had in 2019, which was won by the Reform Party. The Reform Party has the right to form a government, precisely on democratic grounds, which brings together the votes that are in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We make decisions in the government; the Riigikogu can support these decisions. It is absolutely democratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U11	A procedural question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U12	Thank you, good Chairman. I would ask the Prime Minister to be disciplined, first of all, so he doesn't lie. No, I, not our party, have never called on our people to attack the police and their families, or whatever we heard here from the Prime Minister. It's an absolute lie. The other thing is this. I listed a series of drafts that will destroy Estonian democracy and our society as a free society. I didn't get any answers to my question. I would still ask the Prime Minister to comment that, although we can speak freely here what we want, it would still be beautiful and appropriate to answer the question, not simply to answer the charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U13	Thank you. Yeah, if you ask me, and if you answer me, I'm not going to be able to get into this very much as a manager here. But of course, the more precise the questions and the more precise the answers from both sides, the better. Let's keep going. A further question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Me again, contrary to Henn Põllea... I'm really surprised that you can even answer that kind of shit Henn Põlluaas is talking about. To be honest, I didn't recognize the description of Estonia at all, at any point almost, but that's why. [[A voice from the hall.]] I'm looking... Henn, don't interrupt, just let the others ask! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I'm surprised, in addition to being able to answer this kind of crap at all, the questions of today's briefing. There are no questions about the security situation. That's why I'd like to know what's happened in the last 24 hours. I know you're going to France tonight to see President Macron. Tell us, please, what is the situation in Ukraine today, which is in Europe, as far as you can and can say, calm me, the people of Estonia, perhaps Henn Põlluaasa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U15	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U16	Thank you. Indeed, the security situation is extremely critical. Indeed, I hope that the Riigikogu will appreciate exactly what is happening around Ukraine and what steps Russia will take in a row. It is as if Russia has said that it is deescalation and demoting its troops. We don't really see it. We do not see any real steps to make things better. Everything has been moved to such a phase that everything is basically ready for attack. [Answer] to the question of whether or not this attack will take place is still in Putin's head, [it depends on] how he ultimately decides. What did we see last night? We also saw massive cyber attacks against Ukraine. We have said this before that such attacks will come. There are likely to be different hybrid attacks, cyber attacks being part of them. Fortunately, in Ukraine, all systems were restored and life could go on, but there will be more. It is likely that we, as well as other European countries, must be prepared for cyber attacks. Tonight I really am going to Paris to meet President Macron, and tomorrow there will be a European Union Council, where all the European Heads of Government and State will be together. This will certainly be the subject of a debate. Strengthening security at NATO level is also crucial. This is also what the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are working on, strengthening NATO's eastern wing, precisely so that our security is fully guaranteed. What's positive? What is positive is that the NATO allies' line has been maintained, has been very unified. We have been in constant consultations and we have also been heard. In fact, everyone has kept the same line. When you listened to President Biden's speech yesterday, you heard that there were very strong messages, especially for us. What did he say? He said that NATO article five is absolutely certain. In case something should happen to our allies, or to us, there should be some aggression towards us, then the United States, like NATO's largest country, and the ally, takes its Article 5 commitment very seriously. Article 5 says that an attack on a country, an attack on an ally, is an attack on everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U17	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U18	Let's move on to the second question. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is crisis measures. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U19	Thank you. Prime Minister! In recent months, Russia has brought together huge military forces and destabilised the situation throughout Europe to attack Ukraine. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. The Russian State Duma decided to recognise the independence of the so-called Luhanski and Donetsk People's Republics. Their violent separation from Ukraine is a brutal violation of international law. Russia has also requested that Ukraine should not be taken into NATO. This is also the interference with Ukraine's relations with NATO, which violates Ukraine's sovereignty as well as international law. Putin's approach to recent history, threats and diplomacy with the support of military forces, and the demand to redesign the entire security architecture of Europe as well as the borders of countries, based on the imperialist interests of Russia, are very similar to Hitler's policy of the 1930s. In the current situation, the repeated initiative of the Estonian Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa to move forward with the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty, which you have justified in this Chamber and elsewhere as your Prime Minister. My question is: why, at this extremely inappropriate time, do you and your government not realise that, precisely now, by flirting with the ratification of the border treaty, without mentioning the peace of Tartu, we are contributing to the legitimisation of Russian criminal policy and the practice they carry out in Donbass? Would it not be wise for the Government of the Republic of Estonia to remain silent at the moment and to assume that silence is gold? Why is the Government of the Republic of Estonia helping to create such a perverse international practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U20	Thank you. Perhaps a member of the Riigikogu has a mike or something broken, so a procedural question. Valdo Randpere, please! Do you have a technical glitch there, a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U21	Thank you. I have a procedural question in the sense that I started my question before, in principle, with wonder that no questions will be asked today on security issues, and then it turned out that Helir-Valdor is actually asking. I'm so sorry I made that assessment. I want to justify the fact that the question 'Crisis measures' is written behind Question No 2, and this question was not really about crisis measures. So somewhere something has gone wrong, whether this question was wrongly defined at the beginning, or whether Helir changed the substance of the question on the move. I was wrong about the paper on the desk. That's why I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U23	Thank you. The questions of Question Time, which are given in advance, are always one of the great figuring out what the members of the Riigikogu are actually planning to ask. I have to say that we have a whole team trying to guess what one or another member of the Riigikogu has actually thought when he says, for example, that he wants to ask about crisis measures. I also say to Helir-Valdor, there is a whole line here that could be asked. But I have to admit, you were surprised, I didn't think so. [[A voice from the hall.]] How? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah. But really, I'm gonna answer that question. Yes, I absolutely agree with you that the demands that Russia has made are completely outrageous. In fact, they are demanding things that they should not demand, really how NATO's various countries are protected, [to present] demands on it, and, secondly, [to this], who may or may not belong to NATO at all. It is a good thing that NATO countries have really maintained a unified line, that we are in no way subject to such provocations, and that Russia has no right to say anything about the European security architecture. You are asking about the ratification of the border treaty. The border agreement has been concluded and we have also agreed in the coalition agreement that we are looking for ways to ratify. In the past, it has also been agreed at the level of the Riigikogu that this ratification can only take place at the same time, i.e. at the same time in the Russian State Duma and at the same time in the Estonian Riigikogu. At once, at the same time. Is this the right time to do this? Firstly, there is no desire on the part of Russia to ratify the border agreement in order to move forward with it, and that is not the case. But is this the right time? I say this: if there are such crises, it is more necessary for our sense of security and our security that we have an agreement on how we are bordering, so that there is no confusion at this point, even when aggression against us should take place. But right now, I don't see this ratification of the border treaty in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U24	Now, the question to be specified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U25	Thank you. My question was perfectly readable and predictable that we are talking about crises, and the security crisis is now the main crisis. But I didn't understand the answer. You said that you did not consider this time to be right, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has emphasised this initiative on several occasions, not only nationally, but also in communication with Russia. This issue was also raised here in the foreign policy debate only yesterday. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I understand it, considers the unilateral initiative of Estonia on this subject to be absolutely right. I would like to say that the ratification of the border treaty, as it has now agreed, does not correspond to the strategic interests of the Estonian state, even less so in the current situation, where Russia is actively redesigning the borders of the countries. In such a situation, holding such negotiations and ratifying [the agreement] would be a huge setback for the European security process and international law, how cross-border disputes and disagreements are resolved. This is an extremely wrong time and a wrong approach. It is reasonable, at least, to keep quiet in such a situation if we are unable to do more. But my question is about another crisis or the measures that concern the energy crisis. We know that the government has decided on two measures, at the initiative of one Reform Party and at the initiative of another Central Party. My question concerns the bureaucratic compensation mechanism, the measure that the government first adopted. Now it is also time for the tax returns to be completed. Do the income from income tax returns that people get back last year count as income? This would create a new problem, people should only start filling in income tax returns in a few months, otherwise they will lose the opportunity to receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U27	Thank you. First of all, about the border agreement: I said that this is not happening right now. There will be technical consultations, there will be no negotiations. It's not there. Ratification is still not taking place. Now to the other part of the question. Indeed, due to the increase in electricity or energy prices, the government agreed to implement the measures: firstly, a reduction of the 50% electricity grid charge for all consumers; secondly, a reduction of the 100% gas network charge for all consumers; thirdly, a targeted measure aimed at families with a median income to compensate for 80% of the increase in the price of district heating, electricity and gas; fourthly, an automatic price cap for both electricity and gas prices, where the remaining price increase is compensated for by a certain level of consumption and price increases. You are asking about a targeted measure. With regard to the targeted measure, it is positive, firstly, to say that the average grant to be paid on this basis is EUR 163. People are asking for this and, in fact, the local authorities are getting feedback that these procedures are going quite well. Does the income tax collected on the basis of the income tax return go into that income? To be honest, I owe you an answer right now. Just in case, I'm checking it out, I don't have the balls to answer for sure right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U28	Now, one more question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U29	Thank you. Of course, we have a consensus with all other European and other countries and with our NATO allies that their sovereignty, integrity and territorial integrity must not be violated. It is to be welcomed that we stand for the territorial integrity of Georgia, as well as Ukraine. Of course, that's the way to do it. But if, at the same time, the desire to make such a pariah, such an aggressor state spitting on international agreements and conventions, is still burned, especially in today's situation, it is completely unthinkable. It actually shows our duplicity. We are sending a signal to Russia to violate international law, attack other countries, annex, occupy their territories, but sooner or later it will be approved. There is no difference between the annexed and occupied areas of Estonia and, for example, Crimea or Ossetia, except that our territories were taken earlier. That's what's really amazing about your government's willingness to give up voluntarily, free, our property. Yesterday, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the ratified border agreement gives us an additional guarantee of security. Ukraine also had a border agreement, Latvia has concluded it, Georgia had it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please tell me what additional guarantees this should give to our security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U30	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U31	Thank you. Listening to you, it seems to me that you want to make territorial demands on Russia. Is it really in the current security situation... [[Henn Põljaas comments from the place. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U32	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U33	So, this skipping, yeah, maybe not very... [[Henn Põljaas comments from the place.]] It's a war cry. Got it. The question of whether we are now going to put territorial demands on Russia at the moment, in a situation where the narrative of Russia is that NATO countries want to invade Russia and take away its territory, really sounds like we are starting to take back these areas now, which we are not really going to do. Secondly, if you have a plan to make these territorial demands and start to reclaim these areas, then [consider that] we will not be able to return these areas without the people who live in this area. This means, given the standard of living there, certainly an additional burden on our side as well. But yes, right now it is reasonable to keep this line that we are not going to pick a fight with anyone, especially in the current situation with Russia, because the situation is already highly explosive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U34	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let us move on to the next question. In the meantime, there's a procedural question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U35	Thank you. I must pay exactly the same attention to the fact that, in fact, the Prime Minister is just wrestling here, accusing me of saying something about attacking Russia or that NATO should attack and take these areas back by war. I didn't say anything like that. I don't mean anything like that. Instead, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this ratification would give us security guarantees, additional guarantees, and I asked for them to be described. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was not able to handle this, and I see that neither is the Prime Minister. So, unfortunately, we do not hear any reasons for ratifying this border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U36	Thank you. I will be honest with both you and Mr Randpere that, although these are not procedural questions, they are simply descriptions that you are presenting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U37	Let's move on to question three. Helmen Kütt asks, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri responds, the subject is the payment of a living. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! From January, a new system for the payment and award of maintenance allowances entered into force. The time has only passed very little, and you probably do not yet have an overview or additional information on how it has been implemented. True, we've read something in the media. Regrettably, there has been an error between the explanatory memorandum and the calculator, [it becomes clear] when comparing these two things. We received a response from the Ministry of Justice because several people have turned because, according to the explanatory memorandum, the sum should have been larger, according to the calculator it is much smaller. Do you see in the short time that has passed that something needs to be changed? You said very nicely during the proceedings that if you notice that there is a problem, you are ready to come back to the Riigikogu to introduce some changes, as is good legislative practice, that if there is something that needs to be changed, it will be done. Do you have any such feedback from the courts? It is feared that courts may fall under a heavy workload, although, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, all of these pre-established decisions are valid in the application of the law. True, a person can return to court with a request to reconsider them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U39	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U40	Thank you for this question. Indeed, we do not now have an overview of how this system has been implemented. It's been a little over a month, a month and a half, even a little less. Certainly, if such a picture arises, I also assure you that if there is a real need to change, we will be ready for it. Now, the contradiction between the calculator and the explanatory memorandum. As a member of the Riigikogu, you know that the most important thing is the law, and if there is a contradiction between the law and the explanatory statement, the law still applies. Now, unfortunately, the story has happened that there are errors in the explanatory statement. But the calculator is done according to the law, so what's shown in the calculator is correct. Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum has been somehow flawed in the course of various processes, and there have been several changes. As far as implementation is concerned, there were indeed many questions at the end of the year and during the first weeks of this year. They also called the Ministry, asked for explanations. It seems that this confusion has subsided somewhat or that people are beginning to get in and understand things. We are certainly ready to continue to explain, if necessary. I believe that enlightening these principles also in the press, in local newspapers, on the Internet portals is certainly necessary so that people can understand how to implement it. We will certainly do this at some meeting with the courts if this option is to get feedback on how the judges perceive it before the statistics of the courts of this year are completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U41	Now, the question to be specified. Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U42	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, That is true, I know as a member of the Riigikogu, and many people know that there is a law, not an explanatory statement. But according to the explanatory memorandum, many stakeholders were asked for opinions. It was what they were watching, reading the explanatory statement, giving their feedback. As it turns out, it's still a small mistake in there. I would very much like to acknowledge that indeed on the website of the Ministry of Justice, this explanation and the calculation are all well set out. I checked it myself last night. My proposal and request would have been what you already pointed out in your reply, so that the local newspapers, regional newspapers or, for example, city or parish newspapers, free newspapers, which are, could explain it to the people [publish]. Perhaps the Ministry of Justice would do so, so that not every municipality would be involved. It would be important for people to understand. Furthermore, the question is that, if there are any problems and concerns, is it reasonable to address the Ministry of Justice with these concerns, so that, if necessary, indeed, you have done so again today, even if the law can come back to the Riigikogu. How would it be wise for those who still have a problem to understand more accurately?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U43	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U44	Thank you. I'm sure it's a very good idea, I'll take it with me, and we'll try to make sure that information gets to people even more clearly. As far as concerns are concerned, these concerns are of a very different nature. This was also why we made a separate part of our website to help people understand. We are undoubtedly ready to offer this support. It is certainly important that people also have a better understanding of [the subject] in courts and social services. I think they too have the opportunity to support, help people understand these problems, how to calculate a living, what are these approaches. So it's a little bit broader. Certainly these questions are also very varied. Some people mistakenly thought that their judgment had now been annulled or amended. So we had to explain the real foundations. If you look at the media reviews, you will see that there are still these articles and explanations. I think it's quite appropriate to do them for a while. Maybe we should go over it over and over again so people can understand. Once again, I stress that we really have this website very carefully done. When we see that some questions are starting to increase, we will certainly be ready to complement them. We are also prepared to give additional information and knowledge to people who are confronted with such issues because of their work, so that this is as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U46	Let us move to the fourth question asked by Rene Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the theme is environmental protection in Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U47	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! I want to ask you today about the loss of the Transport Department, which took us out of the road to the garbage cans. I've been watching the parking lot where the garbage cans used to be, so what's the score? The situation is actually very sad and doesn't want to think about what [these parking lots] look like when the snow goes off and spring comes. It is very, very, very sad that there has still been no solution. All the more so because we are always talking about Estonia as a success story that we are doing it. We're going to a lot of people who probably sit here every year, "Let's do it!" In the framework of the campaign, collecting various forest floors, roads and water bodies clean of waste. To tell the truth, I, who also tells my children all the time, and I think most of us have talked about why waste should be sorted and why garbage should not be thrown down, and frankly, there are difficulties in explaining to young people why they should go back in the spring and start picking up [trash] from car parks and roads, in a situation where we also do not give drivers and people who use roads the opportunity to give up and put away this garbage in order to be run as it should be. It's starting to get a little bit into cheap child labour. That's not good. My question is whether the Minister for the Economy or the Minister for the Environment has proposed any solution, how to get out of this situation and find the missing 267000. Or maybe you have some thoughts about taking [this money] from the reserve of the Government of the Republic, suggesting that we stop this nonsense and give it a chance to put away the waste along the road so that we don't put our nature conservation under such a blow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U48	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U49	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you that this is absolutely unnecessary, the loss of trash cans. I actually told the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications that the budget of the Transport Board was... In short, I'm gonna find that number right now. Since the question was "Environmental care in Estonia," the team really didn't think you wanted to talk about trash cans. We thought maybe you wanted to talk about forests, maybe you wanted to talk about Natura sites, maybe you wanted to talk about different topics, but you didn't think about garbage cans. I say yes, I absolutely agree with you. The total budget of the Department of Transport is 267000 very small [amount] and in fact their budget [increases], if I recall correctly, is around 376 million. But I'll wait, maybe they'll send me this number. This cut is unnecessary. I absolutely agree with you that people must be able to put their garbage away somewhere. That's what I was talking to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications about. I was hoping that this problem had been solved because it was very foolish to make such a move. But if that is not the case, I myself have not been to inspect these places, if you say so, then I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications again so that it can be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U50	Now, the question to be specified. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U51	Thank you very much. I'm glad to hear you're really worried about that. You have said this before, too, that this decision is extremely stupid, which it certainly is. I'll just get some numbers. I asked RMK for the quantities for the last five years how much RMK collects from the state forest every year. While there were 281 tonnes in 2017 and a little bit more, 2018 was 290 tonnes and a little bit more, 2019 was 250 tonnes and interestingly 2021 it was 152 tonnes. We're suddenly seeing a drop. Let's hope it's that people have gotten smarter sometimes. I can see that the real danger is that we may not see this result again this year, in case we still can't solve this thing by the summer and get the trash cans out again. Also, if you look at how much RMK pays for the cleaning of one tonne of state forest, in 2017 it was EUR 320 per tonne, then 2021 was already more than EUR 500 per tonne. Perhaps it makes sense to think that if we pick up garbage cans off the road, RMK will probably start dragging more garbage out of the woods with its people. Actually, we're just playing, transferring from one wallet to another. So there's gotta be some sort of solution here. I hope you can get it to that point, so we can work it out by the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U53	Thank you. Yeah, I gotta say, I remember those first harvests that were, "Let's do it!" within the scope of this Regulation. I myself went to the woods to clean up, and I was completely shocked at how much garbage was under the woods. For all the people who went there, it was so frustrating that it was so much and still under the moss and big things came out from all over the place that had been taken to the woods. It seemed to me that one effect of the harvest was that when all those who had gone there to clean up saw that someone was driving a pile of garbage to the woods, they reported it, because the cleaning effort was still very great for everyone. If I've been to the woods, then, of course, I've never seen a pile of garbage like this again. I believe we all agree that we do not want such times to come back. I also think it's better not to take the garbage down there than to clean it up. So if one measure is that there are trash cans where people can put their trash, then it's actually a small thing to avoid taking garbage under the forest. There is certainly greater awareness among people; attention is greater in this respect. If you see someone moving trash into the woods, you better call him in or let the police know so they don't do that. But the state, of course, must do everything in its power to ensure that the possibilities of giving up garbage are created.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U54	Now for an additional question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Since you yourself have already opened a Natura 2000 chapter on this point, I cannot miss the opportunity. Yesterday, in the Committee on the Environment, this issue was on the table, and it was precisely with the focus that, in the context of the European Commission's infringement procedure, we are taking steps and, under the leadership of the government, forest cutting has been closed on nearly 12000 hectares of private forest land for 2.5 years. If we talk every day, in the Committee on the Environment, too, that we should take steps to protect the environment with the human being, so that the human being understands why we are doing something, which way we are going, then the Natura ideology has become a waste of incompetence when we join the European Union. Management plans and rules continue to be lacking, circa 40. They are promised to be completed by May 1, 2023. Those owners who have, in the Natura sites, perhaps failed to realise the notification of the forest in the key that the land has been too soft, the price of the timber has been too low or there has been some other reason, have now been hit by a hammer in the head. The state says that 2.5 years are the circumstances that we are putting your applications behind the firewall, in legal terms, and in the meantime we are preparing a bill that will probably create a new reality for forest management in Natura. How do you comment on this, and how do you understand this whole story?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U56	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U57	Thank you. Natura sites were created at the time of accession to the European Union in 2004 and maybe not always have been subject to on-the-spot inspections. I understand they're doing this mapping right now. This infringement procedure, which is in relation to Estonia and which concerns the cutting of forest habitats in Natura areas, in order to ensure that these habitats are preserved, the cuttings have indeed been suspended for 28 months in 12685 hectares of private forests and 29673 hectares of state forests or mixed-owned forest land. The private forests affected by the decision account for 3,5% of all forest areas located in the restricted zones. The review of these Natura sites by the Ministry of the Environment is also about determining whether these protected values are really there or no longer there. That's one element. These Natura sites are simply marked out, but we really do not know where these real values lie. Once that audit has been carried out, a decision is made whether to take them into protection or to make sure that these protected objects are no longer there and can be released [areas]. I think the key question is still how to strike this balance. On the one hand, we have a lot of forest, more than 50% of Estonia's area is covered with forest, and on the other, we certainly have species that need to be protected, we have habitats that need to be protected separately. But man is also a part of nature. The question is whether this balance can be achieved in a better way, so that species can be preserved and man can be delivered. I believe that this balance can be found because people have always used wood, at least in Estonia. Here too, when we look around, we see a lot of wood products. So it's been used for decades. But [we have to look] at where this balance goes so that we don't hurt the forests, but we can also tie carbon by using wood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U58	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U59	We move to the fifth question, which is asked by Üllar Saaremäe, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik, a member of the government, the subject is cultural policy. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I remember that the main reason for your predecessor's resignation was that it was very difficult for the government to stand up for the cultural sphere and that the government did not agree to support the cultural sector in the crisis. Those are his words. You promised to continue the fight for culture when you joined the ministry. To warm up, I ask you how you have been able to get to know your field. What have your contacts with cultural leaders and leaders? The dialogue, as you can see, works. Yet you yourself have also admitted that it is really difficult to stand up for the cultural sphere in the government. Further restrictions have been passed on, unfortunately no compensation has been foreseen for areas that have lost revenue. Is it? There could be a beautiful principle: there should be an immediate compensatory mechanism for new restrictions. More specific questions. How has the government supported or plans to support cultural institutions in compensating for energy prices? What solutions have the government developed in a situation where one third of Estonian people cannot continue to visit cultural institutions due to the requirement of the COVID certificate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U61	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Üllar Saaremäe! Indeed, when I took office in the order of three months ago, I was able to make a promise, both to others and to myself, that cooperation and dialogue with people in the field would be extremely important in this job. I believe that I have been able to keep this promise and to base my work on it. There are more than 60 sectoral meetings with representatives of different organisations, as well as seven regional or urban visits. I am very pleased that, on a regular basis, every Friday every week, the Minister will hold meetings with representatives of the cultural field in the form of Teams, with dozens of people who carry out daily activities in the field of our culture. So I dare say that this contact is good, dense and very busy. We will work together there to find solutions to the various issues that you have marked. As far as compensation is concerned, it is important to point out here that both today's government and the former government, led by Jüri Ratas, have supported the cultural and sporting sectors during the crisis. This amount of public money is in the order of 70 million which has been provided to support this sector. This need is certainly greater in the same way, but of course public money can be handled within very clearly defined frameworks. As regards the energy issues that you have mentioned, it is indeed important not only to support households but also to look at legal persons, including museums, concert halls, theatre buildings, regardless of their ownership, whether they are foundations established by the state, they belong to local authorities or they are private institutions set up by cultural operators. Here too, compensation for network charges helps to save energy costs. As far as the energy costs and needs of cultural institutions are concerned, we have, I think, a pretty good overview of this. We receive constant feedback from Soviet members and keep in touch. As far as the COVID evidence is concerned, indeed, this is the place of political debate. The Centre Party has expressed its wish to withdraw from these evidence, as they are not fulfilling their mission today, according to us and a large number of scientists. With a respected coalition partner, we have not reached an agreement here, we will continue to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U63	Please, a more specific question! Üllar Saaremäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My second question concerns the "letter of concern of the Theatre Union" sent to the Committee on Culture. That's the title he's got. According to § 14 (5) of the Pensions Act of well-deserved years, at present certain categories of artists receive a pension: ballet dancers who have been engaged in creative work for at least 20 years, dancer careers must be 20 years, and vocal soloists with a career in creative work of at least 25 years, wind musicians and choir singers. The Ministry of Social Affairs has stated that the current application of the pension law for the years it has earned is unfair. Unfair! I doubt you, as Minister, will agree. Do you really agree that it is fair to take away their earned pension from ballet artists, opera soloists, choir artists and brass players? As a replacement, the introduction of an occupational pension for a higher-education cultural worker in the cultural sector has been proposed, as it is not possible to grant an exemption within the cultural policy by occupation or creative area. That's what I've been told. The estimated cost is EUR 3 million per year. My question is that you should comment a little on this issue and on what this money should come from if we think that within 20 years the budget share of the Ministry of Culture in the state budget has decreased by two percentage points, roughly so. It was 3,84% in 2002 and 2% in 2022. Please comment on these issues and on this issue more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U65	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U66	Thank you for that question. Indeed, as far as the desire to reform these pensions is concerned, we have discussed this issue with our good colleagues in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Their initiative is that the differences in this matter should be abolished. I have expressed the position of the Ministry of Culture, which certainly states in this regard that, for example, ballet artists, whose profession is very clearly linked to health, differences are entirely appropriate. So we have also expressed our disagreement with colleagues in the Ministry of Social Affairs. As regards how to find the resources for the occupational pension you have mentioned, indeed, it has been one of the ways of going through the table to ensure that people working in different cultural fields have this opportunity, if their careers are shorter due to health factors than maybe in other areas of life, and this 3 million calculation for occupational pension we will certainly have to do in the planned national budget negotiations, in the context of the RES. Various measures can still be brought in here. As far as feedback from the sector is concerned, we have discussed this idea and also mentioned it in our meetings with representatives of the Theatre Association. I have personally met Mrs. Kaie Kõrb, who runs the Tallinn Ballet School and also knows about her excellent career as one of the careers of a ballet artist and what the choices are for the young people who enter this world. It has to be said that according to the plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this pension will not be taken away if this reform is implemented, but will simply not be implemented for new entrants. So whoever gets the special pension today gets it until the end of his period. As far as the budget is concerned, the Ministry of Culture has a budget of EUR 300 million. It covers all areas, from cultural heritage, sport, integration, and others as well. Of course, there could always be more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U67	Now, one more question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, There is a lot to be said about cultural policy. I would like to refer to education policy with this supplementary question, because I believe that education policy and cultural policy are inseparable. I would like to point out, in particular, one aspect of the education reform that concerns the upper secondary school network and this initiative to motivate local authorities to make changes on the educational network. We know there's a problem with the upper secondary school network. They have been around for a long time because the number of children is low. At the same time, we also know that the existence of a proper school actually gives much more on the ground than just a certificate of graduation. There is a certain layer of culture behind it, there are traditions behind it, there is an Estonian song and dance party or more. As part of the motivation package, there are a lot of different aspects left to be heard, talking about money or about making a new and modern computer class for the school. How are we still dealing with this cultural policy, interacting with changes in the educational network? What is your understanding of how the cultural space of Estonia and Estonia will remain strong if we cut off the very important foundations? Is there any other way to fill this gap, because it is precisely on the basis of a proper school that very many cultural principles and activities have been met?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U69	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U70	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to comment on the subject of the Minister of Education, but it is, of course, possible to talk about the links and points of contact between culture and school, as well as the tradition and movement of the song and dance you mentioned, which in many ways rests on school collectives. In order to continue the tradition of song and dance, the existence of cultural collections in schools is certainly extremely important. How does our school network support cultural development? Of course, this issue can also be viewed geographically and regionally from this picture. School as a cultural centre, in so-called broad terms, everything about extracurricular activities, often related to extracurricular drama circles, singing choirs, dance groups, of course, has a very important and important role to play here. If I have also spoken to local government leaders, they have emphasised this. As regards the school network in local governments or, for example, the upper secondary school network, there are, of course, a lot of different factors that must be borne in mind by the schoolkeeper. One is the closeness of the school's home and, of course, how many good teachers can be found in smaller schools. Surely this is not an easy task. If the school is in a smaller centre, the number of children there has decreased, it may be difficult to find teachers, as people sometimes choose to live in larger centres while caring for their families. So this is a very broad and complex issue, which, from the point of view of education and culture, is extremely important to deal with together. However, as far as the view of the Minister for Education and Research is concerned specifically, I believe that he can certainly give it much more meaningfully than I can do today. Of course, the view of the local government as a schoolmaster is also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U72	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Lauri Läänemets, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is price increases. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As we all know, we have a pretty high inflation rate at the moment. There are different estimates of whether it will decrease by the end of the year, with some estimates that it will not. Yesterday we met merchants who confirmed that they are making orders not only for next month, but also for autumn, and for certain products it is already foreseen that in autumn there will be a 20-30% price increase in shops. It hits very many Estonian people very strongly. I think we need to see as a country that certain people with lower incomes are not in trouble. I think it would be reasonable to bear in mind the costs that have to be incurred, to definitely monitor them and to respond accordingly, perhaps to give these people the opportunity to cope. They will all be poorer, including pensioners. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft for exemption from income tax on the minimum wage. This here in the Riigikogu stands, has passed the first reading. My question is this: since the government normally evaluates these drafts and gives its opinion, does the government support tax exemption up to the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U74	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U75	Thank you. Indeed, inflation has been very fast in Estonia, and it is also very much linked to the fact that our economic growth is very fast. The growth rate is 8.6%, which is faster than in other countries. It is positive that wages have also increased by an average of 8%, in the private sector even faster, in the public sector less. This will help to cope with these price increases for over a year. What is important is that, in the long term, wage growth is actually above the price increase, i.e. inflation. That's the way it is right now. We are all concerned about this price increase, about inflation, whether it is long-term or short-term and what it will do in the end. I know that Eesti Pank is also in the process of meeting members of the Riigikogu, talking about the tools to control inflation in the first place, they give an overview of it. As far as the income tax system is concerned, I agree with you that this is a serious concern in 2018 for the decision of the government, where you too were, to change or break up a functioning, simple income tax system, and to create different levels that will actually cause people who actually receive the average income to suffer. It is precisely because if they try to earn more, they will be punished with a higher tax rate. This income tax exemption system, as wages and incomes have also increased, maybe it has gotten in the way of time. Now for a specific draft. Of course, we in the government are giving our opinion on this bill. This opinion shall be drawn up by the Minister for Finance and submitted to the Government for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U76	Now, the question to be specified. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U77	Thank you. I understood from this answer, of course, that the Prime Minister does not have a specific vision here. This is a fundamental question, and it is possible to answer it in principle whether you support it or not. We all know that the higher inflation, the more taxes are basically received by the state budget, and it would be fair to give them back to the people. But I'm going to ask you a more specific question about the children. We haven't raised child support in years, but prices have usually increased for years. People who raise children, who need this support and for whom it is very important have in fact become worse [the situation]. We are in a situation of high inflation. My opinion is that we should increase child benefits. I ask you: does the government have a plan to raise child support this year or next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U79	Thank you. If you want a clear answer, I'll give you this. In my opinion, I also gave a very clear answer to the previous question. It is that, yes, I support the repetition of the tax system. It was a mistake, as you admit, that you broke the tax system in 2018. Yes, I support the repetition of the income tax system in such a way that more earning is not penalised by a higher tax rate, but the tax rate would be the same for everyone, and if you earn more, in absolute terms you will also pay more tax. I absolutely agree that those who need help and have greater concerns about coping must be helped by the state. This is what we have in the Constitution, the principle that the state is helping them. The country has done so, we have helped. As far as all subsidies are concerned, we will discuss the national budget strategy together with the state budget in September, rather it will be adopted in September, and then we will certainly look at all these concerns. By then, let's say, by August, we will also have a clearer picture for the whole year of whether this high inflation was a matter of a few months and, in fact, it will still be lower and much lower than, for example, the wage increase, or whether it will be so great that it will have to take additional steps separately to help those most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U80	Now, one more question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U81	Thank you very much, manager. Prime Minister! This inflation issue is a good one. This is the inevitable contradiction that we have in society, that people very much love deflation, but exporters love very much inflation, which helps the economy. You also said that we have high growth, which is extremely pleasant. Although I am not entirely convinced that if there is high economic growth, there must also be high inflation. One thing that is clear is that under no circumstances do we want to see, the whole country, the whole nation, no one wants to see, that we have inflation like it was in the early 1990s. That was crazy inflation. At present, this inflation is scrolling and scrolling and scrolling, and there have been very sad warnings from many sides. Hence the direct question to the government. Surely the government has already foreseen, planned something, and certainly you have some good measures in place to contain and suppress the insanely rising inflation. Why don't you tell me a little bit about what these are like right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U82	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U83	High inflation is due to the fact that there is too much money and too little goods. Indeed, it has been COVID's time, which has led to a major economic downturn in many countries, and after the economy reopened, there was enormous economic growth. We've had the economy open all along. Why, for example, have our companies, many who operate in export markets, won a great deal from this time of COVID? Because when the factories were specifically closed in France and people were denied access to work, there was no such ban in Estonia, the factories were able to gain more market thanks to it. This is the positive side. But if you look macro-economically, as I said, the representatives of Eesti Pank meet with the members of the Riigikogu to explain this macro-economic picture, there are two tools that help control inflation, but unfortunately they are not popular tools. One tool is to increase the interest rates that central banks normally do. The second tool is what the state has in place to draw up the budget. The state must always act contrary to the economic cycle, i.e. if there is a recession, then the state will make more investments, like against the cycle, and if there is growth, on the contrary, it should do the opposite, hold back. If the problem is that we have too much money and too little goods, then it should be limited in turn. Politically, this is not a popular message to say. I would still focus on people who are really having a hard time. These energy subsidies have also helped to curb inflation a little. If I remember correctly, I might be wrong, just in case I don't say this number, it was 0.8% suddenly in the last quarter or in the third quarter. Just in case I don't have these numbers right now, I'm not going to say for sure. But it has helped to slow it down a little bit, because the rise in energy prices is a very large part of inflation, energy prices affect everyone. So we are following this very closely, and we also have thoughts to make sure that people do not find it difficult to cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U84	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U85	Let us move to the seventh question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa. This is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, the topic is Estonia's views on the legislative initiative of the new European Union package on migration and asylum. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U86	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This question is very practical. I am going to explain this a little bit more precisely because a lot of people are watching our transfer, including the officials who are going to have this whole thing coming up. As we know, we are talking about the positions of the Estonian Government, but within the framework of what the European Union is going to establish for us. Perhaps through the Estonian Government, we are about to present to the European Union those views on the new European Union package on migration and asylum and on the use of migration for political purposes. This package and these positions of the Estonian Government have naturally been discussed in ELAK and have also been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Estonian Government has decided to approve this European procedure and this new package, these conditions, but yes, it is good that Estonia has also made some comments on this package, which is very important for the future. Of course, it is a matter of course whether or not the European Union takes account of these comments made by Estonia, but it is good that they exist. I'll get them out. The important thing is, of course, the solidarity measures that Estonia does not support, which may lead to, say, the compulsory relocation of economic travelers. Well, that's a very principled position. The second thing that Estonia has stated as a remark that it does not support this is that it does not support the extension of the definition of family members as defined by the European Union regulation to siblings, which is significant. That leads me to my question. As our constitution says that the family is the basis for the growth of the people and under the protection of the state, I therefore asked: which law or legislation must our officials rely on or where the interested Estonian resident can be found understandable and clear... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U87	Good questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U88	...the definition of family member?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U89	Good questioner, your time! Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U90	Thank you. I shall first point out that these positions have been developed under the direction of the Ministry of the Interior, which is why I do not know these nuances to the details. Addressee may be a little different. But there are certainly certain principles here that I think Estonia has been following for a long time and which will continue to follow, that is, if someone comes to us, if we receive someone, then this is our choice, which we will let in Estonia and who we will not let in. We create our own conditions. Yes, there are certain common understandings in the European context. Such positions, expressing and fixing our positions, when we go to discuss matters with our European partners, will certainly help us to justify and stand firm on our positions. I do not share your skepticism that our views are not taken into account. My experience is that our positions are taken into account and very carefully taken into account. [To be taken into account] the views of all European countries. If they are made sufficiently clear, it is not possible to actually agree on matters if one or the other country's position is clearly opposed. I will give an example here of the so-called whistleblower directive, when Estonia's original views were conditional, including the seven statements that we wanted to be satisfied and all of them satisfied, so that the [Directive] was adopted. My experience tells me that the same applies to other rules. As for the definition of family member, the definition, you know perfectly well that I am not a lawyer. I have not learned the right, which is why I cannot tell you either a specific paragraph or a specific law. However, it is clear that family members can be defined, and my own logic says that they are still parents and children. Very simple. But I really don't know where, in which particular law or section it is written.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U91	Now, the question to be specified. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U92	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I really enjoyed the part of your answer that talked about family as parents and children. It's very pleasant, it really makes a lot of sense. However, you also said that we expect and we want us to have sufficient clarity on this issue. That is why my second question is a framed one. We have a family law, and the name of the family law says it's a family law. Can we still be guided by this, and can our authority be guided by our people's belief that we can find a family definition in the law of the family? Can we?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U93	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U94	Thank you. Yeah, well, that law could also have defined what family is. But once again, I can say so much about this that the family law, because the population activities are in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, is the Ministry of the Interior, it is the Ministry of the Interior. I know that changes concerning population operations and also family law are under preparation. What exactly are these in the family law, I dare not say for sure. But as far as family operations are concerned, it is very useful and sensible if we are talking precisely about the fact that society has moved forward and that a very large number of operations can now also be done safely by electronic means, excluding unreasonable paper bureaucracy. So this is what discussions and debates are about. I think things are getting clearer from the point of view of civil status. This will certainly become clearer even if the Ministry of the Interior comes with its proposals concerning the family law that they want to change there, what problems they see.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U96	Let us move to the eighth question, which Riigikogu member Andres Metsoja will ask. Answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is broadband. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It is true that, from the perspective of regional policy, if we cut the school network, if we extend the restrictions on economic activity to forest land, Estonia may have a situation where the Internet will soon no longer be needed in that country. People want a way of living that allows them to cope, and they still move to where there are services that have work and a chance to get fed up. I must admit, of course, I am personally frustrated. Once again, one audit has been carried out, the National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the construction of Internet access networks. In the previous composition, we started with this issue, even a support group on these issues. I have to admit that, of course, we have not been invited overboard as a support group, we have often been able to get there when we have very pricked ourselves. We are often involved in such a way that when a regulation is being written, the members of the Riigikogu are also sent [letter] to give their opinion. This report is sad. He is particularly sad in the sense that we are also talking about and talking about the success story of the digital state yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was talking about how we are taking this world, but access is becoming scarcer. The worst part is that we're postponing the deadlines. It even says here that neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications nor the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority have [information] about fast internet applications and where these households are at all. As we read this report, we [clears that] we have come into chaos. I'm just asking: what's going on in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U98	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U99	Thank you. Yeah, it quite frankly creates a lot of frustration that broadband can't or can't be built up. We have really been responsible for this area for a year. But what the National Audit Office says is that, first of all, be a realistic plan to reach the goals, it is necessary to find out where the needs are still the most important, to raise quality and to build an access network first and foremost for areas or households whose residents have expressed their wish to have access to the fast internet. Indeed, these proposals and feedbacks from the National Audit Office are very correct. I know the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology is working on it. MKM has learned from previous measures, why they have not worked. This time more attention will be paid to cooperation with local authorities who know where the people who have the greatest need are. Just as you say that families with children, where it is needed to go to school, for example, or school, company and so on. This new support measure will amount to EUR 70 million from the recovery fund. I would point out that this is roughly the same volume that has been invested over the last ten years. We are making a great deal of effort, but really we are not going to undo in a year that this has not been done in the meantime. There are different sides here. First of all, this basic funding, which is, plus that last mile. I have looked at the practice of other countries, such as Finland, where building up in sweet regions is linked to the commitment to build it up in remote areas as well. This seems to me to be a very fair approach. In such sweet regions, where there are many people, everyone wants to build, but in remote areas it is difficult and it also requires more investment. It makes sense that these things are balanced. It is necessary to find a common place with the private sector to establish these real connections in rural areas as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U100	The question to be specified. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U101	Yeah, thanks! The municipality certainly has a role to play in this area. In fact, this role has already been mapped out, municipalities started collecting applications and carrying out regional projects. Unfortunately, somewhere in the world, it came to the conclusion that it was still not sufficient and that these declarations had to be collected by the state. In the meantime, the country gathered, then we finally got to Enefit Green. People have submitted these statements several times. In my view, it is important to avoid the need for a person to make a statement again. We're doing population censuses on an e-based basis, but we're getting to the point where we can't find people to give them a pension. The function and understanding of the state must be that where these people live. In my opinion, the scariest thing about this is to read in the report basically that the Ministry doesn't know where we have any connections and where we have this network. We've been talking a lot about energy connections lately, that there's been a separation between the power service and the network. If the state wants to ensure access to the household, namely through the network, which is actually a universal solution today, it is necessary, then in certain cases it is either by air or by a fixed connection, which is certainly better, but perhaps not feasible everywhere, then the state should very clearly draw down this plan and state the plan how we do it, what it costs and how it is implemented through business measures or involving even public enterprises or the private sector. The thing is today, the private sector has said they're doing something. Enefit Green, who implements the construction of this network rather than provides a service, says that they still do it where there are more people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U102	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U103	Thank you. I very much agree with you that applications should not be submitted further. People have already been shaken enough. I also agree in this sense that I expect very clear luck from the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology. I've asked him many times about this plan, how we're going to proceed anyway so that we can use this money in a row. Of course, on the one hand, it is said that this money is not enough, and more money is needed to build up. But so far it has been the case to build as much as possible and as quickly as possible, to build more access connections, which have perhaps not been an effective use in this key, that there may not be people who need this connection. I also agree that this network is something that needs to be built up. Who will provide the service on that network is a separate question. From a people's point of view, competition between these companies is best because competition brings prices down. Perhaps the network and the one who can provide the service on the network are like two different things. So I very much agree with these concerns, I consider it very important myself, I have repeatedly talked to the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology to make these things move faster and to see clear results. For indeed, COVID has brought about the fact that more and more people have been able to work at a distance and have not returned to [office] since it is very convenient to work [distance]. This means that people do not have to come together in one city or settlement, they can work exactly where they are, and for this they need electricity and a functional internet connection. These are two things that make it possible to live anywhere in Estonia, and they need to be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U104	Now, one more question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U105	Good manager! Prime Minister! When it was started in time, we discussed it in the Special Committee on State Budget Control and said that there were no impact analyses, the deadline for 2020 has passed [as], the 2030 deadline probably will not be reached. I'm asking who really should be responsible for this shit, so to speak, that it's still this far away in the areas of market failure. As an additional question: tell your IT minister that I have sent him a number of letters in this same matter for months; he could also answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U106	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U107	Thank you. This is an issue in the portfolio of the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, and this is a very important issue. I have also said this and always confirmed that questions from members of the Riigikogu must be answered. The members of the Riigikogu are, in some ways, direct employers to the government, and when questions are asked, it is important to try to answer them. Often you may not like these answers or not be enough, but communication and communication must work. I can stress that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U108	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U109	Let's move on to question nine. Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is energy policy. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U110	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! If there is a crisis, it is usually a coincidence of many things. This is also how the causes of our energy crisis are described as the perfect storm. On the one hand, the geopolitical situation and the exceptionally low gas supply in the European Union are complex. The price of the CO2 quota exceeds expectations; due to the high demand for wood from Narva boilers, the price of chips has gone up. Not all of this was foreseen by the state. Therefore, I find it unfair to assume that people could have mitigated risks for themselves. As a result, people saw their electricity, gas and district heating bills multiplying: double, triple, quadruple. Indeed, with regard to the state's aid in order to mitigate such an unreasonable risk of the price of electricity of EUR 1000, it was generally estimated that it was too little and too late. But now there are measures that are universal, those that are targeted at electricity or gas consumers. Now we have the package in place. It can be assessed in one way or another, but this is the case now. If we look forward to the end of the year, the only thing we know for sure is that there will be another winter. Can you assure the people that what happened with the bills this autumn will not be repeated next year that the government will have a plan, whether it means changes to the law, instructions to people, any recommendations on behaviour or investment in other solutions? My question is: can you assure the people that this will not happen again next fall? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And what's the government's plan? Who's in charge? Can we process these drafts already during this spring session?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U111	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U112	Indeed, the rise in energy prices to this extent was a shock for everyone, and although there were elements that were foreseeable, there were also very many elements that could not be foreseen. As you say, there was no way people could have prepared for it directly. What has this crisis led to? It has brought about a greater awareness of the functioning of the electricity market. I absolutely agree with you that clarification must continue. Why is it that in Finland, for example, there are only 10% of contracts at stock exchange prices? Because people don't dare take that risk because the price can get very high. But yes, the price may also be very low, but 90% of people have signed fixed-price contracts to ensure their peace of heart. We have this proportion somewhere in half, half the people have stock market contracts. There are several reasons. One reason, of course, is that those who are more aware have so far enjoyed a very low price because electricity has been practically free in the summer months. Since the electricity market became operational, prices in Estonia have been around 40% cheaper than in Central Europe, for example. But if there are low prices and you benefit, there may also be a risk that this price will go up. This risk has now materialised. The second part is that those who have not opted for the package or had not opted for the package automatically received a stock market-price package. People with less awareness of how the electricity market works were put in the riskiest position. They're the ones who got the electricity at the stock market price. I think this clarification must be done so that people can understand what these opportunities are. This long plan, all the things we can do to bring down the price of electricity by means of larger production capacities, it unfortunately needs decisions for a long time, it will not bring effect immediately. But for short-term legislative changes, maybe there are two issues. One is that these fixed-price contracts can be concluded for a longer period. Electricity vendors have said that they can even bring down the price of EUR 20 to 30 per megawatt-hour, which is an important relief for people. The second half concerns the entry into the market of renewable energy capacity, i.e. the entry into the grid. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry. I'll answer the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U113	Now for an additional question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U114	Good manager! Prime Minister! We are discussing the Renewable Energy Directive in the Committee on the Environment. Scholastic disputes, which are sustainable biomass. I can't believe they tried to force the wood to be fossil fuel. What do you think, Prime Minister, of this definition, which the Committee on the Environment is trying to impose as Estonia's position in the negotiations in Brussels on the Renewable Energy Directive, that wood is fossil fuel? As a biologist, I don't understand it. But maybe you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U115	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U116	Thank you. So far, wood waste, wood-making waste, everything that is listed in the Electricity Market Act as a source of renewable energy have been considered biomass. I'm not aware it's being taken as a fossil fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U117	The question to be specified. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. I will repeat the first question. Can you assure people that what happened this autumn will not happen again, that there will be three or four times the bill and that the person will be left alone to pay it? Secondly, what is the government's plan and when can we read it or see it? Is this also a matter of amending the laws that we will be able to do here, for example, during the spring session? Preparing for the next heating period, the next big energy consumption in the winter season, what's the plan? Who's gonna tell you when it's gonna be here, when can we make the decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U119	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U120	Thank you. Can I assure you that nothing like this will happen again? I can't actually confirm that. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, not all of these elements are linked to government activities and therefore I cannot give this guarantee. But to keep people out of trouble, we are really making an effort. Energy is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and all these plans are and must be in [the field]. I didn't get an answer before. For example, the same thing that we have requests for more than 800000 megawatts to connect to or connect to the grid, and they are behind the network operators, because they have to model the entire network and see how it fits into it for this connection. But in fact, these individual productions are not very large. Why am I talking about this? It is also possible to amend the law so that it becomes part of the network development obligation, which means that it will shorten the procedure. For example, large production companies, large electricity consumers who want to make their own solar parks, can get electricity from there and can move forward with their own development. Why does this in turn affect the price? If they can use their production directly, they will therefore not consume electricity from the grid. If there is less demand, prices will react accordingly, which in turn brings prices down to everyone else. This also requires, for example, an amendment to the law by which the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure should come to the Riigikogu. So, yeah, these are the plans we're discussing. As far as these instructions are concerned, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a role to play here too, because their [function] is in contact with people who need more help and who may be caught between gears, who may also have less awareness of how any choice should be made. So also these instructions to help people so that they can help themselves, I think, are very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U121	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U122	Let's move on to the next question, that's the tenth. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, member of the Riigikogu, meets the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik, the theme is Rõngu Pillimuuseum. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U123	Good manager! Dear Minister of Culture, A museum called Pillimuuseum is located very far from Tallinn, in Rõngu. It's been operating for eight years, and there's a lot of different instruments, but there's also speakers, microphones, amplifiers, video apparatus, transistors, tape recorders and many more, over 3,000 [items]. They're all inventoryed, just like the museum has to be, electronically and so on. There are all Alexander Latvian pianos, Gennadi Podelski, Tarmo Pihlapp, Marko Matvere, Ivo Linna and... I'm not going to read the list [in advance], until the sun sets when those names get named. But this museum, a private museum that is very popular, has not received any cents from the state, even though the museum leaders have tried it repeatedly. My question to you is: is it still that he is too far away from Tallinn, the theatre and music museum is also there in Tallinn, and let him see for himself how he is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U124	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U125	Thank you, good Peter Ernits! Indeed, the Rõngu Pill Museum you mentioned, which operates as an NGO, has an extremely important collection, and certainly the people who carry it in social order have done a good job. It is also true that the state supports various museums, including private museums. To this end, calls for proposals have been organised which will be examined by the Commission, which will then make its own proposals, which museums will be funded and which will not. It is also true that when the Pill Museum you mentioned in 2021 asked the State for EUR 18500, it did not receive this support on the basis of a Commission decision. He has also asked about the centre of folk culture later. In this case too, the Commission, which is made up of experts, has said that, given the number of applications, the variety of museums and limited resources, their request will not be accepted. I also mention here that there are 175 museums with 227 branches in Estonia, the state finances private museums in the size of 1.14 million euros and applications from 175 museums have been submitted by 41. There were six of them in 2021, when Rõngu submitted its application. So it can be said that this round is very popular in the same way, where money is asked, but it is also important to note that all museums operating in Estonia do not ask for support. In its decisions, both the Ministry of Culture and the centre of folk culture, which distributes public money as a grant, have been based on the Commission's views. The Commission's proposal was, in the past, really that the activities of this beautiful museum, although very well recognised, have been exhibited not only by the exhibits you mentioned but also by Marko Matvere's electric bayan, indeed, but the Commission considers that it has not been possible to finance them within these resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U126	Now, the question to be specified. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U127	Thank you. We recently dealt with the aviation museum, it is also in Tartu County, and again, it does not qualify. There aren't planes in there that aren't inventoryed and aren't everything that's appropriate to the museum. I stress that all this digitisation and inventory is as it should be, it's okay. As former manager of the museum and head of the museum association, I know this law perfectly well, Article 21 of the Museum Act, on which you rely. As I understand it, in the case of the aviation museum, the Ministry will find some way not to leave them empty-handed. But what do you recommend for another museum in Tartumaa, the Pill Museum? The initiative is nice and the eyes are bright, but the Pill Museum is also very important for the country and Estonian culture. Any kind of symbolic support just how could they get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U128	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U129	Thank you for that clarification. Indeed, in the light of your experience in this area, it is not appropriate for me to recall and emphasise what is important in museum work, the aspects of research and research, because you certainly know this better than I do. As far as the aviation museum is concerned, it is important to note that it is a popular place that people visit. Is it always possible to include this in the criteria of the museum? There is, of course, room for interpretation here. I have also been in contact with the head of the aviation museum myself, we have had some phone calls, and I have indeed supported them in the word, which, I hope, is also at some point that, when they make their request for the money for crisis relief measures, my colleagues believe that it is also possible to look at their budget in the light of what the COVID has caused in terms of ticket sales. Their activities are supported by public money in our initial assessment. So I'm sure I want the strength and strength of Rõngu Pill Museum. Your suggestion, I understand, could also be that if I were to visit Tartu County, I would visit them. I'm sure we're looking for opportunities. However, as far as the Commission's decisions are concerned, it has usually been a good tone for the Minister to take the opinion of experts very seriously on the financing decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U130	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U131	Let's move on to question 11. As there is no questioner in the Chamber, we will stop dealing with the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U132	Let's move on to question 12. As there is no questioner in the Chamber, we will stop dealing with the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U133	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have six or seven minutes to finish Question Time. So if you want to ask, please turn on the speaker button. First let me know who you're asking the question to, and then ask the question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U134	Thank you. If that were the case, we'd still talk about energy and talk to the Prime Minister. We were talking here a little bit about the Renewable Energy Directive. It was a pleasure to hear that wood is not fossil fuel, as some of your combatants think. But we also discussed this problem with the Brussels diplomats today. How do you see that all these green reverse initiatives that are currently being discussed in Brussels should be taken seriously? I ask you one thing: is this directive on transport and buildings smart for Estonia? Or do you agree with the French Minister for the Environment that this means suicide to a politician?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U135	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U136	Thank you. The point of the green turn is that because we have enjoyed economic growth, doing too much for nature, so that we can find an economic model that allows us to continue to enjoy this prosperity, enjoy economic growth without hurting the environment. That's the whole point. As far as transport is concerned, the various countries have different concerns. On the one hand, ambition is certainly welcome, but on the other hand, there is a situation where, for example, in Estonia, such ambition would still be a burden on people. We'll take our car park. The average age of a car in Estonia is 14 years, as far as I know. This is not because people do not want to drive newer cars, but simply because we do not have the opportunity to buy new and more environmentally friendly cars. If the burden is imposed on such means of transport, it hits people harder in remote areas, which have no choice, because the tram simply does not work and public transport does not work. So we need to strike a balance here so that people don't carry an unreasonable burden, because it makes them act against the whole green turn. But in itself, we must preserve the planet and nature. You're a man of nature, too. I believe that there is no contradiction in finding more sustainable resources to ensure economic growth, but so that the resources of nature are not exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U137	I will conclude on this issue. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U138	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the Corona. As in previous waves, the burden is again borne by the hospital system. How does the government currently support the health sector in coping with the number of people affected and the number of hospital patients? What effect does this have on all other people in terms of access to healthcare? Similarly, if you look at the next year, what are the objectives of vaccination coverage?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U139	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U140	Yeah, really, it's complicated with the corona again. There are several concerns. On the one hand, it has been said that omicron is just a cold. All these ultimatums and demands that all restrictions be removed immediately have led to the feeling that it is all over. Actually, that's not the case. Unfortunately, in hospitals, it's a burden. What can we all do to support the medical sector? Still, to encourage people, especially older people, to vaccinate, to make an effectiveness dose that protects people from serious illness so that they do not get hospitalised. For our part, of course, we have a separate funding mechanism for these COVID beds to support hospitals. But what is the place of concern, and what was the place of concern during the last wave? People just don't want to work in these departments. Today 17 people died in the hospital because of the corona. People working in these departments say it's basically like working in a war zone, just half the patients are dying. It's a very big problem. Indeed, vaccination coverage should be increased. We cannot give up control measures at the moment either. For people who have not been vaccinated, it is recommended that you keep distance with other people simply because if this disease hits you, it may hit you in such a way that you get hospitalized, you suffer from this disease so seriously that it will have very serious consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U141	Thank you. I'm gonna stop working on the question. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions, I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. Thank you to everyone who's been watching the briefing. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U142	Honourable Riigikogu, welcome to the beautiful Wednesday! We will start the 5th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to submit inquiries or drafts. Please! There is no wish, so it is time for us to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U143	74 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, We often do not wish each other any happiness, but today the previous Speaker of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas and also the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Toomas Kivimägi celebrate their birthday. So if you get to see them after somewhere in the hallway, jerk off and say congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U144	But let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft law on the amendment of the National Defence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. We're planning a third reading. This vote on the draft requires a majority of the composition, but before going to it, the political groups of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Leo Kunnas wishes to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U146	I'm sorry for a second. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U147	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is important in the sense that we have incorporated the law on compulsory charges into the National Defence Act. Since increasing the military and defence forces in the current security situation is inevitable, the greater the military and defence forces, the more resources we need to mobilise from the civilian sector. That was the goal. It can now be said that, as a result of the Commission's work, we have largely solved the bottlenecks that were there. Maybe we took out this seven-day definition of a private supply of food. By doing so, we encourage people to create and collect food supplies themselves. Nor would it be of great benefit to the Defence Forces or to the State as a whole if we wanted to impose a burden on them, because these amounts are simply so small. We have resolved this problem constructively. The topics of the Defence League also arose here, although this is not directly a matter of this law. We have come to the point that the defence tasks of the Defence League cannot be reduced in any way. On the contrary, they should be increased. But this question is, in fact, already the next stage to be resolved. The next stage is the Act of Preparedness. In the autumn of this year, the government is planning to come up with a readiness act, which will not only bring together the current National Defence Act but also the Emergency and Emergency Act. Maybe the work will go on. In conclusion, we have solved these issues. Those things that couldn't be solved were delayed, but the job is done. I call on everyone to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U148	Okay. The political groups do not seem to have any more requests to speak. Consequently, I will close the negotiations and go to the preparation of the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the draft law on the amendment of the National Defence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 417. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U149	The bill is supported by 81 members of the Riigikogu, there are no opponents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U150	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law 327 on the amendment of the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Riigikogu! This is a very welcome and necessary law in today's rapidly changing information society. It is indeed high time for Estonia to transpose the European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive. We are one of the last Member States to do so. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This law is particularly important in the current extremely alarming security situation. European law provides that if a media channel undermines the security of society, including the safeguarding of national security and defence, the government may limit the coverage of this channel. So we, the Estonian Government, must stop hiding our heads in the sand as a matter of urgency and limit the activities of hostile propaganda channels on Estonian territory. In their broadcasts, Estonian nationalism is ridiculous almost every day, and our society is disrupted by views.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U152	Mr. Juske, I'm sorry for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the buzzing is quite large in the hall. If there is something to discuss, perhaps we can do it outside the hall, otherwise even the manager will find it very difficult to hear what Mr. Juske is saying here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U153	Right. All the more so, there will be another important point that will disturb the social democrats in this draft. The European directive prohibits all forms of discrimination, all forms of hatred and incitement to hatred in the media. It's unconditional. But in a friendly cooperation between the EKRE and the current government union, an amendment has been introduced to the draft banning incitement to hatred and hatred only if it poses a direct threat to someone's life, property and health. It is an important drop of tar in this important law text. By the way, the current government also opposed this fundamental change, but in the Riigikogu the coalition surrendered to the EKRE and voted in the draft of this embarrassing amendment. However, since this law substantially clarifies the rules of the game in our rapidly changing media sector, allowing for the restriction and cessation of hostile propaganda channels, the Social Democrats are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U154	Heidy Purga on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U155	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on a subject...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U156	Gentlemen Wheel and Island! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U157	First of all, about a subject that started to build up emotions in its second reading. This topic in the content of this law applies to accessibility. There is a mistaken impression that the provision of the accessibility part of this directive has been pushed to a distant future and given too long time to comply with this obligation. That's not true. Accessibility is important both in this amending directive and in the law that is already in force. At this point in time, the law states the obligation of accessibility, but it is too general and without specific guidelines and it does not have an action plan. But now, before the third reading, the legislative amendment before us provides a timetable for accessibility and also provides for two reporting periods for which it is better to see the results in terms of how it would be reasonable to gradually make your services accessible. There is also an important nuance in the view of businesses, because it is very important for businesses too that these obligations come gradually, not overnight. But also more generally. The amendment to the Media Services Act will, of course, also provide many other necessary innovations, such as the cross-border distribution of our audiovisual media services, as well as the services of new digital platforms, elsewhere in Europe. Because the prerequisite for the free movement of services in the single European Union market is to comply with commonly agreed rules in the European Union, in addition to making the cumbersome rules that have been in force up to now up to date. Our media sector expects this legislative amendment to operate on an equal footing. The new platforms have so far been unregulated and provide a wide range of new opportunities for successful action as well as for the development of the Estonian media sector itself, such as making advertising restrictions more flexible, protecting minors and improving access to services for people with disabilities. It is also important to mean that this draft law does not deal with the restriction of freedom of expression or otherwise regulating the content of the media. Everyone has worked for over 20 years and there is no example in Estonia where freedom of expression or interference with media freedom and the free movement of information would be restricted. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the completion of this long, drawn-out bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U158	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Jaak White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We do not doubt that the Estonian mainstream media, especially the Express Group, are politically biased. There is no doubt about this imbalance, which was clearly proven last year by the NGO Media Research Centre on the basis of statistical analysis. Whether with private or party media, how private media have the right to their point of view, I dare say that our national broadcasting is unbalanced. We will see if my hypothesis is correct, because the national broadcasting itself will soon carry out this study and hopefully one study will come along. But now we are asking whether, in this situation, this should mean that the EKRE should, for political reasons, be in favour of controlling or muzzlering all the media, particularly the public media. I hope I don't sound overly pathetic, but the answer is no, for reasons of principle. Indeed, we defend freedom of expression, including your freedom of speech, the Social Democrats. Extending and transforming the definition of hate speech into such a vague, broad concept of interpretation, as it was originally in the draft, is not acceptable, as it is only the legislator who is competent to establish the elements of the offence. Besides, there is no practical need for that. As reported by the Media Services Expert of the Business Department of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, there has been no question yet where the topic of hate speech should have been dealt with. In this sense, Estonian media service providers behave well. There has not been a case where the relevant legal requirements need to be implemented. This law has been in place since 1994. I say that if we had really expanded the concept of hate speech, it would have meant that we would, as if we were introducing new offences, at the expense of our freedom of expression. In the case of authoritarian regimes, freedom of expression is directly restricted, as you know, in the press or in post-censorship, but in semi-autoristic countries, it is enough to create fear of the consequences and prevent people and journalists from exercising their right to express their thoughts. Freedom of expression can also be restricted through the requirement to be politically correct. Extending the concept of hate speech actually means giving rise to the same fear of the consequences. I am not going to talk for a long time, but I would remind you that the extended concept of hate speech comes from the Soviet Union. Restricting freedom of expression on the basis of hate speech was not meant to free minorities at the time, but, on the contrary, to curb the democrats. So that provision was unacceptable to us. In fact, we, who have experienced the totalitarian power of the Soviet Union for half a century, are also obliged to make the other peoples of Europe aware of the methods and consequences of restricting freedom of expression. I hope that our officials, who may have to defend our decisions in the European Commission, will also do so competently. Finally, I would like to dwell on the method of working in our Parliament. It is really good that a compromise was reached with this draft, but it is not good that this compromise came only under the pressure of an obstruction. This is not a characteristic of parliamentarianism. Good parliamentary behaviour means negotiations, and if the negotiations do not get the result, that is to say, an obstruction is used as an extreme tool. But now there are also successive drafts that we know we cannot agree with, however, will not be negotiated before. I also recall that the government coalition is also burying the drafts in committees. One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U160	You mean extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U162	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U163	It actually means obstruction, too. Burying the drafts in the committees in the same way means obstructing Parliament's work, or obstructing it. Since the government coalition is in a position of power, if even the debate is hindered, it is particularly unacceptable. This will further distance us from Parliamentaryism. But on this draft, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U164	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U165	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! This is now a bill that has been discussed for a very long time, with both pros and cons. It's been asked, it's been debated, it's gotten sharp, etc. The Committee on Culture, too, is not a secret, has discussed this nine times. I remember the number. All previous speakers have turned down important things. I must agree with Mr Purga, who says that this is very necessary and we absolutely need to adopt it. I must also agree with Mr Juske, who says that there are points for them that are not acceptable. I also have to agree with Jaak White on many matters. But that's not what I came here to talk about. The Fatherland made two specific proposals. Unfortunately, they were not taken into account, although the honourable Aadu Black said that somewhere, after all, these originals of our proposals are still staying and are and are also shaping the law. At second reading, a good party partner, Mikhail Lotman, said that not everything is the gold that comes from Brussels. I must agree with him here. And here the whole Group of the Fatherland agrees with the above. There are a lot of grey areas in this bill that will soon become law. There's no point in stopping them for a while. Even the same subject, which is discrimination, who draws it down, who calls it, it is and it is not, etc., etc., etc. Due to these grey areas, Fatherland will not add colours in today's vote. Let's leave our vote exactly as gray as these grey areas in this bill that's about to become law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U166	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is one such draft, which was quite instructive to the Committee on Culture, and I believe that perhaps even to the whole Parliament, because the Euro Directives are one of the strange things about which there are always many different opinions. On the one hand, the pursuit of Europe, the old call for 'Let us become Europeans, but let us remain Estonians as well!' I mean, it's familiar to everyone. It is exactly the same with democracy. I dare say 'and let someone come, let him ask me out, who says that this matter was not discussed democratically in the Commission, that we can take a black and white world picture and see how someone likes it better or doesn't like it. You know, democracy is the case: democracy is something everyone likes, but democratically adopted decisions are not everyone likes, because people are different, interests are different, traditions are different. And that's how we learn about democracy. I think that the experience of dealing with this draft needs to be learnt from other directives in the euro area. To learn this, I looked at how we had recently talked about a euro directive, which a Swedish colleague understands in the same way, an Estonian colleague, according to his history, in a completely different way. Well, it's okay for someone who doesn't fit and whose historical tradition doesn't allow some principles to be praised. We worked, again in black and white, with different institutions and bodies. Jaak, as a White Processor in the Commission, questioned one, two and three institutions. I, as chairman of the committee, did exactly the same. And we covered the area pretty well. In addition, the old truth: the Riigikogu does not write one law. We are dealing with legislation and we are always looking at whether grey areas or black spots or white holes are formed or whether they are still covered. Exactly as well, we also went through a number of authorities, up to the Ministry of the Interior, to check whether the deviation of one or the other wording would not happen in such a way that the state would be working differently or worse. We checked. Noble Saaremäe said so nicely before he got out, I'm calling after him that some of the proposals were not taken into account. Yes, they did! The thing is, it wasn't just those things that were written down and accounted for, which came on paper and protocol. I do want to congratulate all the members of the Commission who helped to move all the disputed issues in a sensible way. In the direction of consensus, but perhaps also in the direction necessary for society. One last observation. We've used a variety of ways to do so-called background research. Imagine, too, for a European background survey. And we've developed pretty good contacts, especially in this era of TV meetings, with colleagues from several countries. For example, I have been helped by colleagues of the Baltic Assembly and our friends. I dare say to you that the Euro Directives are not pure gold, but they are also not something that leads to rap. Listen, in most countries, it's normal that there's a little bit of anomaly in some things, a little bit of a side or a little bit of a third. For my part, I thank very much all the members of the Commission, all the parties. I am not saying that, oh, that is a very good law, but I am telling Eduard that this is the best that can be adopted in our Parliament on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U168	Jaak Juske, would you like a reclining?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U169	Yeah, yeah, because I was mentioned. I agree with my good colleague Aadu Black that it is undoubtedly a law that is adopted in a democratic way. Indeed, in democracy, laws do not have to be enjoyed by everyone. But in a democratic society there will be no compromises at the expense of values, as the Government Union did with the EKRE today, because if we start to compromise on the expense of values in democracy, it will soon no longer be a democratic society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U170	I understand that Mikhail Lotman, mentioned by Üllar Saaremäe, also has a rejoining wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U171	Thank you. It has been said here that a compromise has been reached that there is a lot of good in the draft, although there are some problematic places. I agree with all of this. But freedom of expression is not the area in which I am prepared to compromise, and that is why I am voting against this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U172	Mr. Black's speech must have called Mr. Odinets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U173	Yeah, Mr. Black mentioned Eduard, but there's only one Eduard in this room, and I assume it's me. I would like to talk about the same grey topic. Mr Lotman speaks of freedom of speech, but I would like to say that the word is free, but that word must not hurt anyone. If we allow media services in the media, audiovisual media, to incite hatred, to incite hatred, to incite discrimination, it is not a grey area, it is a black and white area. If Black and White agreed, I can't deal with that. I respect freedom of expression very much, but if that word hurts, you can't agree with it. Such agreements, such compromises at the expense of values, do not have a place in one parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U174	Yes, colleagues, the word does indeed have power in this Chamber. I don't see any more calls. I will close the negotiations and go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 327 amending the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U175	With the result of 73, 1 against and 2 abstentions, the draft was supported and passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U176	Our third item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I would like the speech chair of Mr Marko Storm, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U177	Bigger kind of congratulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U178	Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot begin to process this point until there is silence in the Chamber. Marko, I'm so sorry. Okay. Please, Mr. Storm!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U179	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of second reading, as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am indeed dealing with the draft law amending the Population Register Act and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. At first reading, we presented in detail why the law was being amended. If, as a reminder here, the three conditions include these reasons for the amendment, then [these are]: point one, for people, it becomes more flexible and simple, it will be quickly accessible to their data; second, the municipalities will be compensated for public activities; and third, the number of hours of work that have so far been involved in the enforcement of the law, also in the case of the official body, will be reduced. This seems reasonable in all respects, and this reasonableness is supported, it seems to me, too, by the way in which the matter has been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in general without any greater passion. How inherited and discussed many nuances. No amendments were received for the second reading, except two from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, I dare say, rather a technical question, which has also been given exhaustive answers for the members of the Commission. One concerned an explanation of who exercises quality control over the implementation of the law and systems. The answer was that this was done by the Ministry of the Interior. The second question concerned the costs of replying to operations. The answer was once again that expenditure is not actually increased and the procedure is not changed, only the state fee and its change will be dealt with. The procedural decisions were such: the consensus supported the referral of the draft to second reading in the Commission and, in the event that the large hall decided to proceed with the draft decision, the proposal to refer the draft law to the third reading by 23 February. That's all for me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U180	No questions for the waitress. And there are no amendments. It is now possible to open negotiations. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft and we have completed the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U181	Our fourth item is the second reading of the Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Act on Employment Capacity Support initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress from the Committee on Culture, Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its meeting on 8 February, which was not open to the participation of President Aadu Must, and which led the whole meeting to the chair of Vice-President Jaak Valge. The field manager of the Department of Higher and Vocational Education and Lifelong Learning and Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Research, Kristi Raudmäe, and of the Department of Arts of the Ministry of Culture, Maria-Kristiina Soomre, were invited. Two sub-unions sent their opinion or approval on this draft, although they were sent to 17 [questions of opinion]. The Estonian Ballet Association approved the draft. The Estonian Artists' Association did not put forward any further proposals either, but it pointed out in its opinion that it would be necessary to plan additional resources here in order to draw up an additional budget. The Commission, of course, also mentioned that this draft does not concern such financial aspects. Amendments were tabled by two Riigikogu ambassadors and one was formed as an amendment by the Commission. The first amendment had been tabled by Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge. This amendment concerned age limits so that [creating support] can also be applied for under 15 years of age and over 65 years of age. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Valge also presented the content of his amendments. The representative of the Ministry said that one of the main objectives of the law is to guarantee social guarantees, while persons under the age of 15 and aged retirement are guaranteed health insurance and other social guarantees, in that sense they are not discriminated against by age. After the discussion, the president of the meeting, Mr White, put the amendment to the vote. On its side were 2: Jaak White and Helle-Moonika Helme; against 5: Šorin, Purga, Sutrop, Rajasalu, Šmigun-Vähi, and there were 3: Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Üllar Saaremäe, Eduard Odines. The Commission therefore rejected this amendment. The second amendment had been tabled by Leo Kunnas and its content was that the draft would enter into force retroactively from the beginning of the year. Mr White, whose amendment had been authorised by the author to present the amendment, made an overview of this. At the same time, the Ministry's advisor explained that the Ministry of Culture did not support this amendment, as the original proposal for the amendment to enter into force at the beginning of the year came from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture has also presented its position in the explanatory memorandum, but the opinion of most of the main implementing bodies of the Creative Unions, or the Act, was that the law could enter into force not afterwards, but from the moment of adoption. There is also the fact that it is not possible to provide health insurance for the Health Insurance Fund afterwards. The vote was in favour of this amendment 4: Mr Valge, Ms Helme, Ms Ladynskaja-Kubits and Mr Saaremäe; against was 6: Marko Šorin, Mr Purga, Mr Sutrop, Mr Rajasalu, Ms Šmigun-Vähi and Mr Odines. The Commission therefore also rejected this amendment. The third amendment had been tabled by the Committee on Culture. This helps to formulate how the period in which the creative person is unable to engage in creative work is taken into account, be it because of parental leave or military service in the Defence Forces. The Ministry is in favour of this amendment. When this amendment was put to the vote in committee, the members of the committee who were present were all in favour of it. After that, Mr White also put procedural decisions to the vote. Firstly, the draft should be in the big Chamber on 16 February (which was supported by consensus), and secondly, it was proposed to close the second reading (which was also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U183	The members of the Riigikogu do not seem to have any questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U184	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U185	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge, the Commission has disregarded. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U186	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U187	It's settled. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that we are discussing amendments to the draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Act on Employment Capacity Support. I will put to the vote before you the first amendment tabled by Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge and the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U188	The proposal was supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu, 51 against. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by Leo Kunnas, and the commission has not taken account of it. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U189	Thank you, President-in-Office. Please put this amendment to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U190	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a vote. Do we have to make a call, or can we go to the vote now? Got it. I shall put to the vote the third amendment, tabled by Mr Kunnas, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U191	The proposal was supported by 23 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U192	Today's fifth item is the draft law on the amendment of study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 420. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, please present the second reading of Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U193	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is once again a law that has been dealt with for quite a long time and has been the subject of quite a number of amendments. There were quite a few interest groups involved and quite a few opinions were received. My report is probably no longer as fast as the two previous draft laws. This is a draft amending the law on student grants and student loans and related amendments to other laws. At first reading, this bill was in this large hall on 27 October last year. By 10 November last year, when the deadline for tabling amendments was set, two proposals were received from the Isamaa Group and 12 amendments from the Social Democratic Party Group. In the course of its work, the Commission itself has drawn up six amendments, so there are 20 amendments in total, but I will get to them later. As I have already mentioned, quite a number of stakeholders have expressed their views, including the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, Swedbank, LHV Pank, Council of Rectors of Applied Sciences, Academy of Defence Forces, Financial Inspectorate, Institute for Health Development, Estonian Employers' Confederation, Tallinn University of Technology, University of Tartu, Tallinn University, Estonian Youth Academy, Estonian Language Institute and the Association of Estonian Students. This means that this bill has received quite a large response in very different circles. The Commission dealt with the draft and amendments at a number of meetings, such as 22 November, 9 December, 11 January, 8 February and finally 14 February. The bill itself is quite short, but as I was suggesting, there are many issues behind it. In conclusion, this could be characterised by the reform of doctoral studies in our universities and the very different circumstances surrounding it, as well as the topics of student loans, which have been specified and modified here, probably in favour of students. At its meeting on 22 November last year, the Committee on Culture listened to the views of a wide range of parties. The protocols are, of course, accessible to all of you; I will not stop at their details, but perhaps I will point out a few keywords so that you can understand, get an overview of the problems of this law and the various aspects of the target groups' hearts. For example, the representative of the University of Entrepreneurship Mainor wanted to specify how the doctoral studies of entrepreneurship will work, which the Ministry calls in its documents as doctoral studies of knowledge transfer. The Ministry has repeatedly confirmed that there will be support for entrepreneurship doctoral studies, that is, those doctoral students who work and, at the same time, do research at the university related to their job. This is called a PhD in Entrepreneurship or a PhD in Knowledge Transfer. Mainor was concerned that since measures to support companies and support those doctoral students who work for companies and pay their wages have not yet been developed and are linked to the current new period of funding for the European Union, perhaps these things should be clarified. Since this bill abolishes doctoral student grants, maybe business doctoral studies shouldn't be too hasty. Otherwise, we're gonna lose our student benefits before they do, but the support measures for doctoral students will be implemented later someday. So the representative of Mainor invited us here to be cautious. The representative of the University of Tartu drew our attention to the deadline for the entry into force of the Act. It was initially s. 1st September, however, the University of Tartu thought it could be August 1st, so that the matriculation of new PhD students entering the university and the conclusion of employment contracts with them as junior researchers could take place between 1 August and 1 September. The University of Tartu also stressed the circumstances relating to the general regulations of the Employment Contracts Act. If they make recurring contracts as junior scientists, will they become permanent? It was very much needed to be clarified and regulated. There was actually quite a lot of talk about this in the Commission. Therefore, if you look closely at the bill, you will also see that there are differences that are made by this law into the Employment Contracts Act, so that not all things are automatically applied to junior doctoral students. Tallinn University of Technology pointed out that it may not be appropriate to talk about annual accounting for doctoral studies. Again, when you look at the law, you see that there is a lot of talk there about study years, nominal years of study, etc. Some universities believe that this should no longer be the case for doctoral studies. Maybe we could give up the year-on-year accounting. On quite a number of topics, the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, or representatives of vocational training institutions, has spoken to us at the Commission. Their opinion is that the procedure for the payment of education grants in vocational schools, vocational training institutions could be simplified and bureaucracy reduced. They made a series of proposals on how bureaucracy could be reduced. They also drew our attention to the fact that it is now possible to apply for student support in vocational training institutions only at the end of the autumn semester, when a few months have already passed the academic year. Today, new students come to vocational training institutions to study throughout the year, not all start their studies on 1 September. This may lead to a situation where you enter a vocational education institution in the spring, but the first chance to apply for education allowance is not until next winter. It was brought to our attention. It was then pointed out that VET institutions were able to pay special support. As the applicants claimed, the law sets the maximum amount of special allowance, while vocational training institutions would like to pay some students special allowance to a greater extent than the law allows. Here is an example that some specialties, such as the cook specialty, some of the resources needed, the form of study and all such things, significantly exceed the basic allowance to be paid. Schools would be willing to pay more support so that students can also acquire funds, but this is not always possible. The proposal was such that the amount of the special subsidy should not be determined by the state budget. The Student Association was concerned that if all doctoral students in universities become junior researchers based on employment contracts, how their workload will be reflected in their employment contracts and assignments. The question is whether it can be regulated with sufficient precision, when there is teaching and when there is a job related to a job as a junior researcher and all the tasks offered by the university to junior researchers. In it, students also saw the problem themselves, so that it could be better regulated. The higher education standard determines these percentages as percentages, but actually no sanctions for cases where these percentages are exceeded and nowhere is fixed. While the students welcomed some of the changes to the student loan system that are brought forward by this law, the students themselves stress that the student loan is no longer a popular loan product at all and that it is an unfriendly loan for students at all. Students themselves offer that we could open up the whole subject matter of student loans outside this law, perhaps in some other proceedings, and hold a discussion on whether it is necessary for anyone at all. The Institute for Health Development, as a research and development institution, raised the problem of relations with universities and research and development institutions and with doctoral students who work in research and development institutions but study at universities. How can this be taken into account for performance contracts concluded by the State with R &amp; D institutions? Is sufficient consideration given to the contribution of doctoral students and the work done by doctoral students? And is this also taken into account, for example, in the evalisation of R &amp; D institutions? The Estonian Employers' Confederation also expressed its opinion at the meeting of the Commission. They strongly support the VET proposals on how to make this whole subsidy-related system more flexible and less bureaucratic. The Confederation of Employers also supported the proposal that the amounts of special support should no longer be allocated to a separate state budget, but that VET institutions should have flexible conditions for the allocation of special support depending on the specific profession. Swedbank put forward a series of proposals concerning the determination of interest rates. According to the original wording of the current draft, the interest that was put into the study loan agreement was, as if, very floating. They, however, would like to have more fixed interest and that would be a matter of agreement. These are a series of opinions that have been presented to us. The representatives of the Ministry who responded to these opinions stressed that, since it is still an employment relationship and a contract of employment, a bilateral agreement on the one hand to place the rights and obligations of the doctoral student and, on the other hand, the rights and obligations of the university as an employer, all these issues can be regulated and laid down in the contract of employment, so the burden can also be fixed there. It also provides for the possibility of working part-time. In this case, there is an opportunity to complete your doctoral studies during the eight-year period. The tasks not related to doctoral studies could actually be laid down in the overall doctoral quality agreement. On the subject of knowledge transfer or business doctorate, the Ministry continues to stress that there is no reason to worry about this support measure right away, soon and soon. It is reiterated that doctoral students who do not wish to have a university contract and who do not work in a post involving their doctoral thesis could rather remain exceptional cases. Therefore, no grants are foreseen for them in this Act, but they can use general support mechanisms aimed at all students, regardless of their form of study. The Ministry agrees that student loan conditions could be more flexible and more favourable. In fact, it is believed that this law allows this. In particular, it is now possible, by bilateral agreement, to make the old student loan agreement more favourable, as proposed by the new law. The Ministry agrees in principle with the proposal of vocational schools that the application system should be less bureaucratic, but also stresses how the application system looks. It's up to every VET institution. In fact, very much can make it less bureaucratic for vocational training institutions themselves; the Ministry here does not propose any barriers. The Ministry parities the comment of vocational schools as if special support had been fixed somewhere and could not be paid any more. In fact, the special allowance rate is not fixed and the school itself can pay special allowances to students within its own budget. The Ministry will also further develop the issue of R &amp; D institutions. They could cooperate more with universities, negotiate more and make their own agreements so that doctoral candidates can contribute more to the R &amp; D institution's performance indicators. Then perhaps it is still important to note that the jobs that are expected to be created in R &amp; D institutions and companies, these doctoral studies, would be additional to the 300 doctoral studies that the state is already ordering from universities. Here we had a discussion about whether these entrepreneurship doctoral students would not take away doctoral students from universities. The Ministry says there's gonna be an extra order. The proposals of the Fatherland were, as I said before, those intended to determine in law what the minimum remuneration of the doctoral student should be and what the supervisor's salary should be. These proposals were not supported by the Ministry; they were ultimately not supported by the Commission either. It was mainly referred to the fact that the creation of a payroll fund and the distribution of wages between employees, but that employees are both supervisors and future students, is a matter of university autonomy and the state should not interfere with the autonomy of the university. That's the main thing. Of the 12 proposals of the Socialists, ten were basic or related to one subject. The Social Democrats wanted to maintain student support for only one group of doctoral students. These are the same exceptional cases, i.e. doctoral students who are not employed at university and who are not employed in their own company, i.e. who work elsewhere but wish to study in doctoral studies alongside their work. According to this law, they will not have any education allowance granted by the state. However, neither the Ministry nor the Commission supported the ten proposals of the Socialists in this regard, precisely on the grounds that the work of a doctoral student should be the work of a doctoral student. The Ministry and also the universities themselves do not really favour PhD students who try to study alongside their main work in the future, because both studies and results show that doctoral students do not usually graduate, with them there are serious problems. The Social Democrats then had a proposal for applying for support from vocational training institutions. Here the Ministry came with the same argument that it is an educational institution to do how to make it less bureaucratic. That is why they did not support this proposal either. The discussion was also on the date of entry into force. The Socialist proposal was that it could be already in spring, on 1 April. Neither the Ministry nor the Commission supported this. It is believed that nothing interferes with all the relevant procedures and admissions of universities before the law enters into force and then, from 1 August, start signing contracts and organising matriculation. There are a number of proposals that the Commission itself has put forward. These relate to the grant of education allowance. Proposals Nos 5 and 6 if you refer to the list. Who, then, will be considered a member of the family? Here, problems have emerged from practice and the remarks of the Chancellor of Justice. It is specified that it would be fair to grant grants to students over 18 years of age, and the Commission has taken this into account. Swedbank's opinion has also taken into account the proposal to fix interest rates. The proposal of the University of Tartu, as I have already mentioned, has also been taken into account for its entry into force on 1 August. It also specifies the Education Act. One mistake related to the fact that the university law is no longer in force will be removed. Who has legal provisions for university assets? It's more technical, but it's very important to write it into this law. This has been taken into account by the Commission. It has also been specified how it will be with those doctoral students who are currently studying. They will continue to be subject to all the conditions that existed when they came in and signed agreements with universities. That would be all for me. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U194	Thank you for this thorough presentation. There are questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U195	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think we saw the most intelligent and thorough approach to this Parliament's draft. I would like to give my sincere credit, it was well reported, on the basis of scientific methodology, generally to the individual. Not exactly familiar with these subjects, I actually got a lot of information. But I would like to understand what these motives were and who voted in committee on the proposals of the Fatherland. These must have been 14 or 10 here, proposals from the Fatherland. You mentioned that reasoning in one sentence. But what were the motivations and who, in the Commission's name, rejected such a wise proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U196	Yeah, thanks! I'm about to find out what those suggestions were. What number? Amendments 15 and 16. Amendment 15 refers to the fact that the junior researcher's supervisor's remuneration could be fixed, in the sense that its increase should take place automatically with an increase in the average salary. Proposal No 16 related to the junior researcher's salary fund; the junior researcher's salary could not be lower than the average salary. We had this issue repeatedly during the debate in the Commission already at the beginning of the draft procedure. When the minister went to the committee to introduce us to the draft, even before the first reading, he kept saying that the junior researcher's fee would be the average Estonian fee. We have, both the ambassadors of the Fatherland and the other ambassadors, and I have personally asked where it will be fixed. Where is this fortress that when a young person enters a doctoral degree, he will receive at least an average Estonian fee as a junior researcher? Because universities make the admission condition that if you want to do a doctoral degree, you have a duty to sign a contract of employment with the university and you have to work at the university as a junior researcher. Where is this fortress, what will your fee be in the situation when your education allowance is no longer paid? Turns out it wasn't fixed anywhere. And those sums, which are imputable to the average remuneration, are allocated to universities through the same management contracts. But as we know, universities themselves have refused to enter into these agreements because they do not meet today's requirements. So that question stays in the air. But the argument why. As I said in a few words, it is university autonomy. Universities are our autonomous public bodies. The state will not interfere with their remuneration policy. The state does not tell universities what the salaries and salaries of academic or non-academic workers should be there. Now, if we're going by law to assign any kind of pay to a particular group of academic staff, be it a junior researcher or his supervisor, it's like it's outside our entire logic. The state's involvement was not supported. But I'm about to find out, I had a very interesting quote here from my colleague Margit Sutrop. He mentioned that, so far, all proposals that violate university autonomy have been rejected for all other laws and initiatives. However, in practice, universities cannot sufficiently realise their autonomy because the state does not provide them with resources. Also, at the meeting on 9 December, Sutrop said that the law could impose obligations on universities, such as those offered by the Fatherland, but it was an obligation that did not have a guarantee. On the one hand, we can set the minimum wage for a university academic staff, it is a supervisor, a junior researcher or a professor, whoever must be, but in fact, on the other hand, the state does not provide any means for universities to guarantee it. It's also kind of a corner argument why we can't set it. The Ministry, when this proposal was discussed, said it would be a precedent. As I said, in the case of university staff, no legislation is regulated anywhere. Well, here I would argue with the Ministry because the minimum fee we have applies to all, including academic staff. So something is still governed by the law. The Ministry mentions that this is the competence of autonomous universities and also their responsibility for what these salaries will be. In any event, this was such an argument as to why the Ministry did not support it and why the majority of the Commission did not support it. The additional question was Mr Reinsalu in order to mention the name. Proposal No 15. Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Üllar Saaremäe and Eduard Odines, Jaak Valge voted against it, while the rest, Marko Šorin, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Ülle Rajasalu, who replaced Signe Kivi, voted against it. The exact same results were also found in the case of proposal No 16 which wished to fix the junior researcher's salary. I hope I answered as thoroughly as I did my report. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U197	Mr Reinsalu, the ovation is premature. It's up to Üllar Saaremäe just now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U198	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You answered very thoroughly, answered all the questions I wanted to ask. And my question to you is, is there anything you couldn't touch in your report because of time? You'd have a chance at that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U199	Thank you. I understand that at second reading there is no time limit for the rapporteur to answer questions. It's Wednesday. There's plenty of time. But I wouldn't delay your time. In fact, as you have seen, in my presentation I focused on these discussions and arguments and things that came from the target groups. I think it's very important. The amendments could also have been presented and discussed how the vote was taken, who voted, where there was consensus and where there was no consensus. I did not have time to tell you this, but I think it is not so important either, because you have these materials completely on this shelf and you can see for yourself how these amendments were. But one thing's on my mind. Still these so-called third-type PhD students. It's on the soul. We are actually depriving them of basic support. In the Commission, even such terms as "basic doctoral students" or "lifestyle doctoral students" were spoken by an official of the Ministry of Education. There's no way I'd like to agree to that. Because some people still find time and study alongside their main job and family. At the same time, we still have an unattainable objective in development plans of how many doctoral students we have to send out of university every year. We have not achieved this objective. We have to hold on to every doctoral student, every person who wants to study in doctoral studies. Not like we're gonna say to him, "Come on, but then it's your lifestyle. Or, "Come on in with a contract, give up your current job, come to a university with a contract, and we will be happy to receive you. But in that case, your salary will be... " I don't know which one, do I? The minister promised average pay, but fixed it's not, wondering whether the university is offering or not. Those scissors are on my heart. All these proposals have been voted down. The Ministry doesn't support it, and I understand that universities aren't very supportive either. But I myself have been such a lifestyle doctoral student in my time and I am concerned about these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U200	Mr. Sester has... Where's Mr. Sester? He has a procedural question, but... Mr. Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U201	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U202	You've pressed a procedural question on Mr. Sester's spot. [[Mikhail Lotman says something.]] It was an accident? Did anything happen to you when you were in an accident? No, it didn't. That's good. Then we can move on with the questions. Mr. Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Indeed, Mr Reinsalu accepted a very good presentation and presentation. Thank you. You seem to have brought yourself very well up to date and a specialist in the field. I'm not a specialist. But a number of observations simply led the mind together. There was a question of both student loans and the amount of money that was always missing. Of course, I agree that the state should not go outside the administration and the public sector to regulate wage rates or the coefficient. But there was a question about that student loan. Has one instrument or tool been considered, or was it discussed in the Commission, that, in fact, in certain disciplines, the state actually compensated for the student loan for some number of years when contracts were concluded with the State? Perhaps this idea is a reactionary one, but has it been dealt with as a way of applying something like this to doctoral students, too, if the area in which work is to take place or the research that is being carried out is mutually beneficial to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U204	Thank you. In fact, we weren't directly discussing whether we could come back to this system. People my age and some of the parents that we used to go to university in the 1990s and then went to work in the public sector were really wiped out. Yes, indeed. We didn't talk about it, but we were talking about students raising the subject that student loans are actually no longer a popular product, in fact it is no longer attractive for students. That's what we were talking about. Those arguments that sounded like why student loans were no longer so attractive. Here's the very reason you've pointed out that no one's gonna make up for them any more. And the second reason was actually our higher education reform. When higher education became free of charge higher education and additional student grants were introduced, the student loan was no longer necessary. Very many students used student loans to pay tuition fees. But when tuition was taken away, right, in Estonian-language disciplines etc., we all know the subject very well here, then the student loan was no longer necessary. Year after year, interest in it has diminished. Since the students raised this issue, we did deal with it a little bit, but we did not get to the point in our discussion that maybe we could restore student loans. Rather, this bill focuses on a more favourable and flexible loan for students wishing to receive student loans. Yeah, the topic. Everyone basically welcomed these changes and we had no special discussion about student loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U205	Mr. Reinsalu, it's your turn again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U206	Thank you. Honourable waitress! To me, the position of the non-supporters of the proposals of the Fatherland and the representatives of the government still seemed remarkably sophistic. It is the will of the state to ensure average pay for junior researchers. My question is: will universities now guarantee an average salary for all junior researchers? Is the point, then, that there is no problem? Why is it not recommended that it be fixed that the average salary is maintained? Secondly, whether the Commission also discussed that it is such a strange construction, if everyone wants to provide junior researchers with an average salary, to maintain it and to raise it with an average wage increase, but this is contrary to autonomy. But what, for example, is the country's overall minimum wage in the area of universities? It also changes, it is regulated in the country and, by the way, it has been enacted by law. Question: I did not understand whether this dispute was that Parliament was not entitled to do so or that it was simply inappropriate or uncultural in relation to universities. Which was the position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U207	No, rather, the position remained as to why it cannot be supported in order to fix, at the level of the law, the remuneration of certain groups of academic staff - it is rather a precedent-creating and state interference with university autonomy. These were the main arguments. The same arguments have also sounded, for example, when the Social Democratic Party, in its time, proposed to fix the university payroll by some percentage in the law, so that they would know every time they get what they get. At the time, it was also said that the state could not prescribe anything to universities. We did not focus very much on numbers in the context of this draft and whether or not it is possible to guarantee this now. The state has promised that even in the absence of administrative agreements, funds will be allocated to universities to hire junior researchers. I hope it gets to everyone. But if you remember, I think on 9 December we discussed the subject of higher education here in a very respectable collection. Then several times it came up on this topic that in fact the salaries of academic staff are very low and in universities there are several hundred people at work who receive a lower amount than those of ordinary school teachers. For schools, we set this minimum which must be paid to school teachers, but for university staff we do not have such a minimum, except for the minimum national wage. So, in this sense, we did not have precise statistics on these figures in the Commission, in my opinion, but because of other issues and the general situation of higher education, we have dealt with this. We have also had a delegation from the Academy of Sciences, for example, who have similarly expressed concern that the salaries of university staff are very low and that the salaries of teachers in general education schools are already running out of the way. This is a concern, but it relates to the general problem of funding higher education, which needs to be addressed. The Social Democrats have joined an educational agreement calling for this. I also invite other parties to join the educational agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U208	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U209	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, thank you for this detailed review. My question concerns whether a study has been carried out on this or whether some groups have expressed a wish that the remuneration of doctoral students, as well as the remuneration of the supervisor, should be fixed. Like you said, there was no mention of it in the committee. Is there anyone interested in this? Has it been studied, has it? And what have the universities said about their autonomy? 'Cause it's just been said that the ministry doesn't want it. I may simply say, to explain my position, that we really cannot say that there is a pot for you here, and you must necessarily give this pot to the doctoral students. Because maybe the supervisor of the doctoral student will have less money than the doctoral student gets, but it just doesn't make sense. Not out of jealousy for doctoral students, but in proportion. Fortunately, so far, the good news is also for doctoral students: one can say that doctoral students have not missed out, the university itself has given more money than the state has allocated. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U210	Thank you for that question. In the Commission's proceedings on this draft law, we did not discuss any studies on who wants or who does not want the doctoral student's remuneration to be fixed at the level of the law. In fact, since this was not a proposal by interest groups, but was a proposal by the Riigikogu Group, unfortunately, when we dealt with this amendment, we did not have representatives of universities on the ground who could have said the floor. That's why I owe you an answer on what universities think about it. I don't know. I can assume, but as a waitress for the bill, I believe it's not my job to deal with conjecture here. Obviously, autonomy is supported by everyone, right, but autonomy could also be guaranteed by appropriate means. But even more than the junior researchers and doctoral students of universities, I would be worried about entrepreneurship doctoral students, because their remuneration depends entirely on the employer who directs them from the workplace to this company in an important occupation, an important field of study and research. It is not regulated at all, either by an administrative contract or by anything else. At this point, I would call on the Ministry of Education to develop these support measures for entrepreneurs as soon as possible, using this tribute. This has been allowed at several meetings of the Commission, and several universities have also raised this issue. It would also contribute to greater cooperation between businesses and universities and to fostering knowledge transfer. Because if an entrepreneur knows that he or she receives state support, if he or she hires a person and sends him or her to study at the university, he or she will have more opportunities to cooperate with the university and such a job as a doctoral student in entrepreneurship, or doctoral student in knowledge transfer, will be more attractive. I understand it's a little new and modern in Estonia, but we have to move this way. If you remember the discussions that we had last year in this Chamber on a new strategy for research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship, you know that this was quite a lot talked about and much hoped for. However, the state could also come to the aid of entrepreneurs who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U211	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U212	Good manager! Dear waitress, Rectors here are reluctant to sign administrative contracts because this 100-million-dollar hole is unfilled. My question: how does this current draft, which also applies to universities and the younger group that receives dog pay there, fit into this overall picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U213	In fact, this issue was raised at our meeting on 8 February. The Ministry itself mentioned that the prospects for the conclusion of administrative contracts are very open. It was February 8th. Today we already know that it is still very, very open about how these management contracts are. However, the Ministry of Education and Research assured us that there is such a distinction in the completed administrative contracts that 1/12 of this grant will continue to be paid to universities in the new year, despite the fact that administrative agreements no longer apply. And this 1/12, which already includes very different university costs, can also be applied to the implementation of doctoral studies. Because, in fact, even now, in universities, these doctoral students work as junior researchers. In the framework of the administrative contracts that have already ended, they will receive this fee, won't they? And then they get on with it. It's just that maybe universities don't have the certainty of what it's like when they start accepting new PhD students in the summer. The question is what about those doctoral students who are already studying and receiving study grants. But that money's in it, too, 1/12. The secretary was worried, but again, she didn't see a big problem in it. If I remember correctly, we had a Minister of Education and Science present at a committee meeting, who said that administrative contracts in general are not very necessary, can be delivered freely without an administrative agreement. I hope, however, that the country will find a common language with the rectors of universities and that these administrative agreements will be concluded. In that case, all parties have a legitimate expectation that, if any steps are taken, they will also be covered by money. But, to sum up, in answer to your question, the Ministry itself did not see a particular problem in this and said that the recruitment of doctoral students under the new rules is not hindered even if there are no administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U214	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U215	Thank you. You said you weren't worried, but before that, you said the Ministry's chinovists were worried about that 1/12. Why were they still worried? And how big is 1/12, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U216	Unfortunately, I do not have the administrative contracts and the amounts that are written in it at hand, I cannot answer that. But 1/12 is 1/12, right, whatever this amount is from the amount of the specific management contract that has been signed with a particular university and which already includes both student grants and doctoral grants and all other things and extends to current students. Each official is probably concerned when there is a link in the system that is meant to communicate between the state and the university, but this link does not work and it does not exist. Each of us would be worried. The same way, I don't know, you're going to work, right, there should be a contract of employment, but it hasn't been signed. Well, you're still a little worried about the oral contract. But, in summary, things should hopefully be resolved with a new country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U217	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U218	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U219	I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Mr. Reinsalu, would you like it or not, how does it feel? Tired, but at a steady pace. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U220	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U221	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U222	Thank you once again to Eduard for a clear, intelligent and systematic presentation. I was saddened to hear the position of both government representatives and coalition representatives, which rejected the proposals supported by the representatives of the Fatherland, the opposition, the idea of which was clear and unambiguous: to give junior researchers a guarantee of income. In my opinion, particularly hypocritical is the attitude of the representatives of the government that, in fact, this money should be guaranteed anyway, that is what we intend to allocate to the 'block' financing scheme in the form of administrative agreements and there is no real problem. If there is no problem in reality, and if the universities here really did get a little blurry in the presentation, they say they are willing to pay it, then where is the real problem? On the contrary, it is a matter of expectation, a question of legitimate expectations. This is not so much a question of university autonomy, but it is a question of the autonomy of junior scientists, their pre-destination, the projection of their academic careers. The entire law currently deals with [you can see] if you undertake the entire text of this law with people associated with the academy, be it students or university scientific co-workers. Undoubtedly, it could be said theoretically if this concept of autonomy is such a comprehensive one that we do not need legislation on higher education, because we have separate autonomous units, which then by means of all this block financing will shape their higher education policies themselves and realise it, inter alia, through wage policy. So these explanations of the respondents were very thin, and I call on the entire House to support this proposal. Of course, it is particularly incomprehensible and imprudent to talk about the autonomy of universities and the resolution of these problems in university contracts, while the representatives of the government are perfectly aware that these agreements have not been concluded as a result of the systematic return to universities. The rhetoric takes powerful poses, but nothing in practice, as we can see as a result. We are told that we are looking at the country's budgetary strategy in the process of doing so, et cetera, et cetera. But you see, our government has begun to work, to lead Estonia by optical methods. This is extremely dangerous because it may not have much to do with reality. We have a security crisis that involves the whole of Europe, including, in particular, NATO's eastern wing. How much did the government actually allocate, dear friends? In terms of military capabilities, equipment and supplies, €2.7 million. EUR 2.7 million! This is the level of error actually in today's DOD budget. There is talk in the rhetoric: but we intend to allocate 380 million as a whole within the four-year perspective of the RES. My question is also for the Higher Education Support Group, Professor Sutrop. To the Higher Education Support Group! Why does the support group in Parliament, apart from the opposition and coalition, not say to the government: a decision must be taken and a decision must now be taken at government level on the financing of higher education in the form of a budgetary strategy perspective for the country? This would allow us to conclude agreements, which would allow us to provide all researchers with a university guarantee for some foreseeable period of time with a development perspective. It's said, you see, there's not enough power to do that. Under what law did the government act last autumn in order to be able to carry out, as has been the case at the Commission's meetings, the energy support measures that have been brought together? Under the Atmosphere Air Protection Act. Can you imagine? The budgetary policy of the Republic of Estonia is no longer governed by the Budget Act, but by the Air Protection Act. The situation has become completely caricatured under the leadership of the state, systemically. And now we're getting to the point that the government was able to do what? Hanno, you've never heard the kind of thing that happens in that government in your life. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The government changed the country's budget strategy retroactively. No one has ever heard or thought of such a thing, such an anecdote. In order to be able to extend hundreds of millions of euros under the Air Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Sea, the country's budget strategy was reversed retroactively. If they want to, they can. And there will be a government. What is our mission over the next few weeks and months? To say this: the principle of a country's budgetary strategy must be lowered. This must be brought to this Parliament and the decision taken to this end when the government actually distances itself from its leadership responsibility. And, of course, the proposals of the Fatherland must be supported. High-class dim that we do, but there are no real results at all. The financing of higher education has created the most serious crisis during the last decade, and its responsibility lies with all those who support this government. The moral capital of this government, which concerns the education of Estonia, the Estonian Academy and the survival of its spirituality, is, in my opinion, exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U223	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U224	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House and all supporters of education! In particular, those who believe that the activities of education and higher education and research and doctoral students will depend on our day tomorrow. I very much agree that there are many concerns in higher education. The most painful concern is the problem of financing. I very much agree that today, during the debate on the amendment of the law on student grants and student loans, and in connection with the amendment of other laws, we should think about how these promises that doctoral students will become equal researchers can similarly be done with research, realised, and covered by financial resources. Now, just in case, the main amendment to this law for doctoral students is that doctoral students can have both social guarantees and status as junior researchers and devote themselves to their doctoral thesis. It's realizable in many forms so they can do their doctoral thesis. One is indeed the same junior researcher status, which gives them a contract of employment and should also give them equal opportunities to be academic colleagues and not to perform other tasks, but only to carry out their doctoral tasks and, within certain limits, to study or research and development, as other academic staff at the university do. They can also continue to hold some other position as a student. Indeed, what Eduard Odines was talking about, the question of whether they should receive a doctoral grant for this or whether they should receive a second salary, has seemed unreasonable for universities because this is the situation. This situation has shown that very many people, who may even have completed their entire doctoral studies, have not reached the point of protection. This means that they have not, in fact, been able to commit in time or have not been motivated enough to do this last act. Therefore, this waste of public money is ineffective. Although, indeed, I always think, in the case of education, that no learned year, or even no learned day, has been thrown down, for it is likely that the learners have become wiser and that they have also acquired the profile of the researcher and are better able to use it in their work. But the state needs these people with doctoral degrees, and to complete their doctoral studies, the status is that they have a fixed contract, which also leads to the protection of the doctoral thesis. Finally, as an external student, it is always possible to complete doctoral studies without you being in this student status, which gives you the opportunity to apply for scholarships elsewhere, go to missions, conferences and gain the student's other advantages. Now this funding side. In this sense, two things could be explained. One suggestion here is that there could be a fixed tutorial fee. Why is this an intervention in the academic autonomy of universities or even in the activities of universities? In fact, in a university, no person is simply on the payroll as a tutor. These tasks, which are academic staff, are divided between research, teaching, research and development and mentoring profiles in a large number of universities. In many universities, supervisors receive a bonus if their doctoral students successfully defend, especially if they finish with a nominal term. This means that, in fact, financial measures, there are opportunities for this. It is not reasonable for universities to prescribe how much they should pay for a task. This is the first explanation why it does not make sense. Linking doctoral fees to average pay, indeed not much has been discussed in the Commission. That is why I asked how many universities themselves have expressed their views on this. It's really been the Ministry who thought it shouldn't be fixed. And some... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U225	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U226	And in a sense, such uncertainty really is in here. From autumn, doctoral students should receive an average salary of 1550 euros. I think that universities, as well as businesses, can understand this as being guaranteed, but the question is, who is it coming from? Here I am now thinking of reaffirming: the problem of funding higher education, guaranteeing a pay for doctoral students by concluding administrative contracts, and we must come to a solution to this. It is very, very important that this promise comes before it reaches the problem of the state budget in autumn. But, just in case, I would stress that this problem has not arisen during the current government. I am very much in favour of this, and it has turned out in many debates that it was precisely the transition to free higher education that in some sense caused the gap in which people were forbidden to include private money, and we know that it has rather come from this party, who, before me here, was very passionate about the need to resolve the problem. So I think everyone should look at their own concerns in history. Together, we need to find a solution on how funding for higher education can reach this level and give universities such confidence that they dare not only to accept and instruct doctoral students, but also to do science and teach them in the best way. This will certainly add a great deal to the country's prosperity, competitiveness and sustainability. Thank you very much and a lot of strength to solve these common concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U227	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been here in the Riigikogu for a week now, but I think I've been here the fourth time, I've been through here. I've always remembered how reports are made. First there is first reading, then there will be proposals, then there will be second reading, which, as a proposal, will end at the end of the second reading, and so on. I didn't hear it all today. Today I learned of this first reading, the waitress Odines reported what should have been at first reading. But the second reading of what the Commission really discussed, believe me, our committee session lasted perhaps 45 minutes, today's second reading and Odinets's presentation was almost an hour and a half. I had a completely confused feeling that either we voted this way or we did not vote that way, whether or not this was the case. In fact, I would very much ask that there be something concrete that actually took place at second reading, how the vote was taken, who was in favour, who was against, and, if necessary, the proposals that were opposed come back to this Chamber for a vote. So anyway, I don't know, maybe it's all changed, but it was a very new experience for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U229	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U230	Thank you! My dear colleague Ülle Rajasalu, to see immediately that you have only been for a week. We had our first reading on 27 October. At first reading, I reported everything that was before 27 October. Everything I said today in my presentation took place after the first reading and there was preparation for the second reading in the Commission. The fact that you only attended one meeting means that you do not know what happened earlier and what discussions we had. As I know with a slightly longer period than one week here as a member of the Riigikogu, the second reading of the Commission's rapporteur must report everything that took place in the Commission between the first and second reading. And that's what I did. All these stakeholders came to us at this very time, between the first and second readings. I did not see the need to read all the amendments and whether they were taken into account or not, and I did not see any explanation for these amendments, because everything is available to you on the shelf and everything is beautifully seen there. This does not require a report from the Commission. The Commission's presentation is needed to make it clear to colleagues how one or the other proposal was made and why these proposals were or were not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U231	Mr Ligi, speaking from the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U232	Thank you. Yeah, a little line for Eduard. I can tell you've only been here a year. You do not really have the sense of time and the idea that the presentations actually have to convey the main content of these discussions. It got really long and annoying, it's covering the whole thing up. So in that sense, I'm defending my colleague. He wasn't the only one who had to listen here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U233	So, I am pleased that the parliamentary debate continues. Now it's Helir-Valdor Seeder's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U234	Well, I also have the right to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U235	It is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U236	Since Jürgen Ligi will not allow any longer, I will take the floor and make it brief. The discussion, I understand, is about how long a report should be. Winston Churchill has said that a good speech must be like a woman's skirt: short enough to attract interest, but long enough to cover the subject. I think it's quite a clue to what the length of the call should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U237	Yeah. The manager doesn't make any comments. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any more requests. I'm closing through... Indrek Island has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U238	Thank you. I began to wonder, having heard this moral reading here from a senior colleague who still tends to teach other people how to live. I thought it was a little inappropriate. But I have a question on the basis of which item in the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure the President gave the floor to Jürgen Ligi. What did it qualify for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U239	Thank you. It qualified as speaking during the negotiations from a point of view, which is § 69 (5) to two minutes. Okay. We have also exhausted the procedural speeches and closed the negotiations. We now need to examine the amendments. We have 20 of them. Let's go through these. The first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U240	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U241	Got it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing amendments to the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans and, in this connection, to the amendment of other laws. The first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee have been rejected. Before I put it to the vote, I say right from the beginning that, since it was just the time and we have 20 amendments ahead, I will not let the time go again, and I will ask you all to be in the Chamber. I am no longer going to ask if we can go to the vote. I think the hall agrees with that. I am voting on the first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U242	In favour of 17, against 47, the proposal was not supported. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U243	Thank you. This amendment would also deserve to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U244	I shall put the second amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U245	In favour of 17, against 47, the proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U246	Thank you. I would also like to ask for a vote on this very good amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U247	I shall put the third amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U248	In favour of 17, against 47, the proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U249	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal to be voted on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U250	I shall put the fourth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U251	In favour of 17, against 46, the proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been taken fully into account. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been taken fully into account. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U252	Yeah, thanks, Hanno! I would also like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U253	I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U254	In favour of 17, against 48, the proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U255	Thank you. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U256	Same story, so we can vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U258	Got it. I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U259	In favour of 17, against 50, the proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U260	Thank you. I would also like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U261	I shall put the ninth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U262	In favour of 17, against 52, the proposal was not supported. The tenth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U263	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U264	I shall put the tenth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U265	Sixteen to 51. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has failed. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U266	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U267	I shall put the 11th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U268	In favour of 17, against 52, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U269	Well, let's vote that too, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U270	Got it. I shall put the 12th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U271	by 62 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 13, tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U272	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U273	I shall put the 15th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U274	That's 20 to 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the lead committee has been disregarded. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U275	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U276	I shall put the 16th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U277	Twenty-one to 52. This proposal was not supported. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U278	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U279	I shall put the 17th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U280	17 to 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U281	I ask you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U282	I shall put the 18th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U283	Seventeen to 49. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U284	Thank you. Last chance to support this amendment. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U285	I shall put to the vote Amendment 19. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U286	17 to 50. The proposal was not supported. And Amendment 20, tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. We do not see any other proposals, so we have completed the second reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U287	Our sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act on the Implementation of the Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds of the European Union for the period 20212027 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, member of the Monetary Commission, please speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that this draft provides for a national legal framework for implementing the territorial cooperation programmes approved by the European Commission and the operational programmes of the Internal Security Policy Funds for the period 2021 to 2027. This draft was read here [for the first time] on 19 January and the deadline for amendments was 2 February. A total of six were received. A number of expert and stakeholder groups were involved in the drafting of the draft. The opinion was requested from the Academy of Sciences, the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, the Confederation of Trade Unions, the Estonian Association of Information Technology and Telecommunications, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Chamber of People with Disabilities, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Council of Rectors, the Association of NGOs and the Chamber of Environmental Associations. No proposals were received from them. All these suggestions are in front of you in the table. The Social Democratic Party Group made the proposals No. 1 to 6 and the Seventh was made by the Ministry of Finance. Amendments 1 to 3 concern the basic principles mentioned in the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2020 to 2035" and the horizontal principles set out in the General Provisions Regulation of the European Union. The desire to distinguish them more clearly in drafts, or at the level of the law. The fourth amendment provides for priority to be given to less prosperous regions in setting the conditions for granting subsidies. The fifth proposal is to provide for the possibility of reinstating the time limit for lodging an application. Sixth proposal: to give the affected parties the opportunity to refer directly to the administrative court in the event of a dispute against decisions on the application without prior appeal to the defendant. The seventh amendment also makes it possible to apply the principle of "one time, last time" request to information containing tax secrets. The Commission took procedural decisions: to put it on today's agenda, to conclude the second reading and, if this is to be completed, to take the final vote on 23 February, next Wednesday. First of all, I will talk about the four proposals of the Sots. They were dealt with in a rather single principle or in the same way; they dealt with the writing of horizontal principles at the level of the law. They were not supported by the initiator of the draft act; neither did the Commission. In applying the law, the performer wishes to take these matters fully into account. And in that sense, the step is already taking in this direction. Unlike earlier periods, this time it is also planned to measure the achievement of the objectives and introduce results more widely, including to the Riigikogu. But, yes, the Commission did not approve of the provision at the level of the law. Amendment 4 [commenting] concerning the conditions for granting the grant made it clear that the granting of grants has been organised during the new period in such a way that the Government of the Republic first endorses a list of measures setting out the general themes, such as equality, regional development and the environment to which attention is paid in this period. Implementing agencies will then define which specific activities relate to these thematic areas. The draft terms of grant will then be drawn up, which will specify more precisely how specific actions will affect the situation in the thematic areas. Regional development is undoubtedly one of these important [areas], but there is a confrontation with the principle that European money is not so specific that we should raise these principles to the level of the law. In fact, these are cross-cutting policy-making rules, which are always taken into account in the budget as much as possible. But yes, it could not be extended to everything as an absolute requirement. With regard to the proposal to restore the deadline, it was explained to us that the regulation laid down in the draft is similar to that which was in force in the previous two budgetary periods. As in the past, there is a desire to provide for such a possibility, if necessary, by means of special laws. And why wouldn't you suggest you reinstate the application? The reason is that the grant procedure is intended to be kept as effective and purposeful as possible. Changing deadlines can make it all very cumbersome. With regard to the sixth proposal, it was clarified that this concerns the possibility of recourse to a court without recourse to the appeal procedure. During the preparation of the draft proposal, this has been carefully considered and a mandatory appeal procedure has also been in place during previous budgetary periods. It aims at reducing the burden on administrative courts. Direct recourse to court is certainly a problematic procedure, and according to the statistics of administrative courts, the average duration of proceedings in 2020 was 248 days, which is a very long time. And the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which is the last one, concerns the disclosure of information containing tax confidentiality and relates to the principle that a person only provides data to the State once. It was also considered important to write this general principle here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U289	Thank you very much. It is now possible to ask questions. Peter Ernitsa has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U290	Good manager! Dear waitress, As regards this fourth amendment, I ask that geography should also be taken into account when allocating these resources, in particular wealth and those areas sometimes referred to as areas of market failure. Why was it voted out for the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U291	Thank you. I do not call these areas of market failure. Rather, on the contrary, it is a very market-based approach; we are trying to counter the market with politics. From the point of view of the market, no poorer region would receive the money it is currently receiving. But, yeah, for some reason, that word is used. It was not considered, yes, reasonable to write to the level of the law. These principles apply to budgetary policy in general, but it is intended to deal with them according to the considerations of the implementing authorities, depending on the measures, rather than to write it in silence at the level of the law. [It is intended to leave the implementing bodies to decide which specific activities relate to these areas. On the basis of this, draft terms and conditions for the provision of services will be drawn up. But yes, it has been assured to us in advance and behind that the territorial principle is very much taken into account. I think it's a bit of an illusory conclusion. This has also been stated by the National Audit Office that euro money has, as if, increased regional differences, but rather the movement of euro money has gone according to the differences already existing. Well, he's getting bigger now. He's evened up. It's kind of a bit of an evaluation question, either an egg or a chicken. The money still moves to regions where its use is effective and the number of beneficiaries is as high as possible. This does not necessarily have to be interpreted as increasing regional disparities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U292	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U293	Thank you. I will continue on this subject. Not only has the National Audit Office drawn attention to this, but also various scientific studies, those of the University of Tartu and others. And the reports of the Ministry of Finance's own strategic documents confirm that European funds have made more prosperous regions and poorer regions poorer. As you mentioned so far, the principle has been that implementing bodies [consider] territoriality in designing their own actions. This has indeed been the case, but it has not helped in any way, the situation has gotten worse. Did you discuss in the Commission that, if you do not agree to write to the level of the law, that the ministries have to justify [why] they do not apply differentiation on the basis of territorial coefficients in their measures, what other instruments could achieve the situation that Estonian regions would develop more or less equally, not in the opposite way, thanks to European money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U294	Well, it is simply intended to be dealt with in sub-level documents and specific decisions in accordance with specific measures. In itself, we do not yet have the answers as to how this is going to happen, because we are currently still adopting the law. However, I am still reflecting the Commission's opinion. Yes, we discussed this, but there is still a position left in the Commission that whether or not this money increases inequality is a bit of a question of evaluation. Money goes with people. If people tend to change their place of residence, this does not mean that it is in euro. I'd rather not. Rather, the point is that euro money, like other money, is subject to the principle of effectiveness. Many reforms are structural ones that seem to cause things to happen when they weigh on sustainability and the number of beneficiaries, but rather they are the result. They [don't] cause this additional inequality. So I am better acquainted with the National Audit Office in relation to these methodologies, and I am very sceptical. That opinion also sounded in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U295	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U296	Good manager! The second question I have is about the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the AMIF. It says here that its implementation will be regulated. When I looked at last year, there are handicraft clubs and work clubs for Nigerians and Ukrainians and making videos for a million and a half. [The co-financing rate] is [also] 25% in Estonia. There are no things here in 2022. What, then, is the plan to regulate in this year's AMIF?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U297	Thank you. It must be acknowledged that no one's racial or ethnic affiliation or specific projects were ever affected during the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U298	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U299	Good manager! Good Jurgen! During the discussions in the Committee on Finance, there was also the subject that one official said that when we discuss the distribution of funds, we will discuss with the officials of the other ministry. How do you feel about whether the distribution of such large sums of money and the debate should take place in this Chamber or whether it should only be that certain officials who do not have political responsibility in the Ministry agree among themselves how and where this money will be distributed? I remember very well that you didn't like it in the committee either, you spoke up there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U300	Thank you. I do not really like what is often happening here in this Chamber: empty talk, waste of time and struggle with details that actually do not reach the level of legislator. In general, yes, if we were to be more effective, we could try to be more detailed. But you can see what happened to this Parliament. In fact, our efficiency and our desire to achieve results have been getting less and less.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U301	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U302	Bad law! Sloppy, non-political and, in fact, isolating all competences from Parliament. And that passionate, dramatic defense didn't shake me for a second, respectable waitress. [[Jürgen Ligi laughs.]] My question is why this law does not provide for one centimeter of competence for Parliament in the actual allocation of these billions in concrete terms and, even if so, the competence for coordination in the drafting of these regulations. In essence, Parliament is isolated from what is also a matter of monitoring and of making policy choices on the basis of the European Union's resources [in terms of use]. And the second question of aid: why is there no specific policy action in this draft towards regional rebalancing? It's completely isolated from this dimension. You spoke to whom you have been coordinating, there was the Gender Equality Commissioner or with whom you have coordinated this draft, but my question is very simple: the proposals of local governments. And ask for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U303	Thank you. If my aim is to shake you, I will use completely different methods than the Commission's report. So this time I really didn't ask for you to be shaken. However, I mentioned that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities was one of the partners with whom this bill was discussed. And they did not receive any amendments; they are therefore very happy about this draft, unlike you. But I'll try to comfort you and shake you after this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U304	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U305	Thank you. I'm asking about these horizontal principles. The Common Provisions Regulation, which governs the implementation of the European Structural Funds, provides that all activities must take into account, inter alia, fundamental rights of the European Union, gender equality and equal treatment, accessibility and sustainable development. In our draft law, we note only the basic principles set out in the Estonian 2035 document: regional development, language, culture and security. They differ widely from one another. So unless we mention these horizontal principles in our law, how, in this case, have you discussed it in the Commission, can this requirement of common provisions be guaranteed? For example, to ensure equal treatment and gender equality and accessibility for all actions at all levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U306	Thank you. I may answer the previous question, but why not also tell you that this law does not really change current practice. What Urmas Reinsalu here dramatically called isolation, so he has felt isolated for 20 years since he was in politics. But these are pragmatic decisions. What is written on the level of some regulation is currently resolved by specifying it in the regulation as necessary, but the general principles are of course valid. It's just not practical to rewrite everything at law level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U307	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U308	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, At present, the draft does not provide for regional differences. However, if the terms of the measure are agreed and it becomes clear that, for example, a separate call for proposals for rural areas or a lower rate of self-financing is needed, it will be clarified and can be implemented, it is not prohibited. But what would become better or worse if the draft said that regional differences had to be made, precisely in order to really reduce these developmental imbalances? Yes, either lower self-financing rates for less prosperous regions or separate calls for proposals should be made. However, if this is not justified, for example in the case of universities or in the case of large hospitals, these differences may not be explained. What would make such a solution better or worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U309	Thank you. Whether we write it as a denial or as a yes, I think the bottom line is that if nothing gets worse or better, we don't have to write it in the law. But there are a number of such projects, I do not know whether it is right to call them measures, where in principle there is an optimization, for example, instead of a regional aspect. Let us remind you of the subject I am close to: the school network. The mathematical impression that he may have is that he is somehow contrary to the regional principle, but in fact he ensures regionally the sustainability of the quality of education. There have already been hundreds of millions of European money, and there is no point in introducing a regional principle in the same way. However, in a specific regulation, these principles have a specific meaning and it seems practical to enter them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U310	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U311	Thank you, manager. Good Jurgen! You didn't answer my question as to what your opinion is, whether you think it's important for the officials to develop these measures and share the money. You claimed that the Riigikogu is, as if politely said, a pointless place, and you can't do anything anyway. I understand that over a third of this company is the Reform Party's in the Riigikogu. How could you still... What's your point of view? That all the money and its principles should be left to the officials, because the Riigikogu, in your understanding, can't do anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U312	Thank you. I actually answered that question and I don't want to provoke any more. But one thing I've always said to you about questions like this is don't be condescending to officials. The scornful view that we now have a mandate and that is why we do better is not appropriate. We often have to admit that it is an official who has specific competence. They're our assistants, not our opponents. At what level some decisions are made, it is always pragmatic. The legislator will never have to go into too many details. And he won't make it if he goes into the details. However, I pointed out that this composition of the Riigikogu and, to a large extent, the previous one have not shown themselves to be an effective worker, but to be a very small talker. And the bottom line is, there's such a condescending statement that there are some officials, some secondary characters in the matter. No, every level has a role to play. We have ours, the officials have theirs. I think this bill is optimal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U313	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I still wonder why the Commission did not support the proposals of the Socialists concerning regional development. You have just commended the officials, and I agree with you. The officials of the Ministry of Finance who want to get the regional dimension into these support schemes are in great trouble because they do not want to put it into the measures under preparation in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This is happening right now. If we read the various reports that have been made on the use of European Union funds, also on behalf of the state itself, it clearly states that in the past the government has also made it a priority. But in the end, what is going to happen is that there will be no regional distribution, there will not be a priority. In fact, we also see this in preparations for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Please, comment, which gives you the courage to not repeat the same now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U315	Thank you. I will now try to return to the Commission's discussions. But indeed, the Commission has repeatedly answered such questions and the assessment is that simply, in silence, to highlight this principle, the regional principle, that sometimes goes against the real purpose of this measure or project. The construction of a large hospital may seem to be an anti-regional policy in Tallinn, for example, but it actually allows better medicine for the whole of Estonia. So do schools. There are no students in smaller places, and if they start going to centers or a little further away, it's like an anti-regional policy, but it actually allows for long-term life in the countryside to be maintained, ensuring the quality of education and teachers' [higher] pay levels, full load, student choice. How do you write it like that into the law? Regional black white should mean that everything is evenly distributed, but in fact this uniform distribution means a very ineffective social network in both cases. So do schools. Can't say we're just building the roads regionally evenly, we're still building them according to where the cars drive. So, yes, I wouldn't absolve any principle. I think the practice that has been in place so far is, I assure you, I repeat, similar to what is currently proposed in the draft. Only with the difference that results are now being measured. These principles are still in place, but [the results] will be measured, in this sense they will be more prominent, but that does not mean that we should formally write them into the law several times, even where they may start to prevent us and create disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U316	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U317	I didn't understand anything about the last answer. The government plans to close or discuss the closure of county hospitals, post offices are closed, the actual availability of regional services is not an issue with European funds. We are talking about the draft European money distribution. The concept that Parliament must not be given decision-making powers, that a formal document on delegation of powers is enough in a parliamentary state, I absolutely disagree with that. And the point was that where I lived for 20 years, [if] I have such a view. That there are measures regulations at ministerial level, I have always contested. I don't think that's a sensible solution. They should at least be at government level and reach Parliament for discussion, at least in the field committee. Why do you consider it appropriate for the government to consider that the regulations of the measure, which [represent] real, substantive policies and the choice of how billions of euros will be distributed in order to achieve the noble objectives you have set out, so that they remain precisely at ministerial level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U318	Thank you. I agree you don't understand, or at least you pretend you don't understand. But I myself tried to answer the question. Any decision will be made at the optimal level, and you will be the one who here from time to time gives orders that now we will waste time. I've heard from the side. But it does not involve competence or meaningful debate. We can prevent decisions from being taken if we delegate everyone here and take our own decisions, but we know that we will not achieve efficiency here. And in general, this practice, as described in this law, has been in place throughout the European Union, except that the achievement of these objectives will now be measured and communicated to various interest groups and institutions, including the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can certainly make its own proposals. I do not know that this time the Fatherland would have offered any suggestions for an avalanche; it does not know that it has proposed any. If this proposal is that 'I don't understand anything', you can do it in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U319	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U320	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, In this sense, you are absolutely right that, evenly regionally, there is no point in distributing money and there is no point in giving less, but that more must be given if we want to change the differences in development. I do not know how these differences in development will otherwise change, they will not change in themselves. That's what we've all seen in life again. But I really did not understand your explanation, from the Commission's point of view. What you described, which was the reason for the refusal, is the content of the Socialist proposal. We understand perfectly well that there are urban measures, we need to give the hospitals money. In view of this, our proposal was that, if there are no grounds or arguments for not implementing this measure with regional differences, this must be justified in the regulation of the measure. Everything! This can't be an obstacle in any way. So my question continues to be: why is the Commission not in favour of the principle of allocating euro money to take account of regional differences and needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U321	Thank you. Got it. If I would now think further, the Commission did not discuss why it should write a regulation and waste time explaining why no matter what is done. It is still the custom to write in the regulations what is done, and it is also a general principle of public law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U322	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U323	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Well, it is not very nice to insult Parliament here that Parliament is incompetent and does not understand anything. I would rather say with regard to this speaker that, in reply to Mr Ernits, you said that this has nothing to do with immigration or anything, but I read here about the area of regulation and adaptation of the law that it is very directly concerned with the implementation of the operational programmes of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. So the waitress must have spilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U324	Thank you. This was now a written and oral statement that the questioner or speaker did not listen to my report. Let's hear it! However, to clarify that I did reflect, or my answer was that the question never arose in the Commission. I do not have much competence to comment on a debate that did not take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U325	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U326	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Well, you can actually say that we are also dealing with the detail of the whole when we are talking about regional differences. It is certainly not now an instrument to undo regional differences; this package is probably much, much bigger. But you were talking about the meters that now this measurement is going to be different from that of the previous period. In fact, the National Audit Office, as well as the state, has carried out monitoring on an ongoing basis, looking at the impact of the various measures in which the money has been put: what has been done and what is the result. If we begin to measure otherwise, will we be able to overcome this barrier, that at one point there are no officials at the Commission with a slogan at the table, that, listen, good Members of Parliament, it is actually too late again, quite earlier, we must give these details to Europe if we want to break Estonia in two somehow. Does this change anything now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U327	Thank you. We have, however, been presented with this thing as a bit of a forecast level, because the regulations are not yet on paper, so that there will be measurement and reporting, which has not been so far. As far as this defeat of Estonia is concerned, there were no officials here who said it was too late. It was just too late and it didn't make sense. In the sense that Europe would not have been [confronted] to the wishes of Estonia to feel or establish itself as two regions. This division of Estonia into two would not have been supported. Still, the use of money has different efficiency criteria and the regional view is only one of them, indeed. There are a number of national principles, projects and measures that cannot be interpreted directly as regional policy in this way, but, of course, regional policy is one of the principles that comes with consideration of any policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U328	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U329	This is one of the most important, if not the most important, individual decisions in terms of financial volume, which Parliament will take during its term of office. This is a question of allocating funds to the European framework budget for seven years. The overall universal understanding of parliamentaryism is this: Parliament deals with general issues and the most important individual issues in the country. And now we're going to read the text of the law. In reality, this essentially means handing over the draft bill by Parliament to the government, so that, not even at government level, but at ministerial level, decide to distribute these billions of euros. Parliament can accept this in silence. Parliament may even take the doctrinal view of Jürgen Ligi that he is incompetent to decide on these funds. But there is no compulsion to decide in Parliament. Whoever feels he is incompetent does not have to take part in the debate and the vote. Who thinks he has been elected here to represent the people of Estonia, that he has been elected here to make important decisions, that these MEPs want and ask that Parliament have a greater say in making substantive choices. And the confusion that Parliament is unable to deal with individual and detailed issues is a mistake. We do not want to deal with individual issues. This law actually consists of details, namely procedures and details, not content choices. Parliament wants a fundamental selection mandate on content issues. One time we discussed this distribution of money at the initiative of the Special Committee on State Budget Control in this House, when we did not even have the final position of the government in terms of the distribution of money, but we do not have any measures today in practice. Different views were put forward. I very much welcome the Social Democrats. Another pleasant surprise has already come today from the Socialists: indeed, this proposal 4 on the recognition of regional differences. I certainly dare to support it personally. The question is two things. One is that the entire doctrine of this draft is already included in the title. You see, Parliament does not organise a policy of financial resources through the European Union's cohesion and internal security policy funds, but we have been given the role of implementer. Parliament shall adopt the law on implementation. And I'm saying that this mental error, this concept, has been going on for a long time. I cannot say that the unique responsibility here lies precisely with the government in office, which would certainly be unfair in the same way. But of this passiveness and lethargy, Parliament must shake itself up. And in this spirit, the Isamaa Group proposes that the second reading be interrupted. This is a serious step, it is a major step, but we dare to do so in the conviction that we will be able to find a way to raise [decisive] to a higher level in the course of a further debate. The regulations are the ones that basically allocate billions of euros. This generalisation force that we have been shown in the slides, where these billions of euros will be distributed, it will cost nothing. The question is precisely in the policy options how these things have been done at the level of the regulations. You gotta raise it to a higher level. Secondly, consideration of the regional dimension must be established and, thirdly, provision must still be made at the level of the law, namely, the objectives of the policy being fixed by the legislator. The Social Democrats have set their own objective here [presented], I think these objectives could be discussed more widely. I know it bothers Jürgen Ligi, but it's okay. We cannot move forward with such a culture of work on such important issues. Parliament considers itself here... Yes, I think that the word is actually appropriate: Parliament must assert itself here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U330	Jürgen Ligi, the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U331	Yeah. My name was raised very high, my doctrine was spoken of, and me as a great opponent. But let me remind you that I represented the Commission's opinion here. And besides, this current budget period was negotiated at a time when a friend of Urmas was proud of the government. My hand practically didn't touch it at all. All these principles have been in place in earlier periods, and I could not personally influence this situation in the preparation of this period. But yes, it is a matter of great executive power and I have no reproach for Urmas Reinsalu or the previous government on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U332	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U333	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've said once this week that you have to trust the government. We must trust the government, we must trust the officials that these measures, the several hundred measures that will be put in place and through which all these structural instruments will really be used, will go to a good place. But Parliament, of course, has a role to play in laying down these principles, the principles on which every measure must be implemented. Today it is very good that we have talked a lot about regional policy here and that regional differences should be reduced. Well, you can't do regional policy, Jaak Aab. He did say on Monday when he answered the question that, well, with these rural schools, the Ministry of Education would "take care of it and watch it in its field." It is not possible to make regional policy that every ministry is carrying out and looking at its own field. Then we come to the fact that these interest education cuts or waste bins, toilets or free transport decisions, which are also made about the state budget, affect rural areas more than life here in the city centre of Tallinn. And indeed, given that the money of the state budget and the money of the structure of the funds do not have to be planned differently in any way, I think that in making all these decisions the principle must be taken into account so that regional differences are not amplified and, if possible, these differences are actually reduced. And now we have a bill on the table that will enable us to make this change. Indeed, it turned out from the Commission's debate that officials also have a very strong desire to channel resources to reduce regional differences and the plan is to say at the level of the law that it is not prohibited to make distinctions. And if differences are needed, when agreeing on the terms of the measure, it can be explained that there will be a separate call for proposals, a lower self-financing rate will have to be set at whatever reasonable level to target less prosperous areas with more structural funds. This has also been possible in previous times, but it has not produced results. I am not at all sure that this time, although there is good will, the outcome will be somehow different from before by the end of this seven-year budget period. The result, perhaps, is that we find that regional differences have been amplified. We think of one, the other or the third of this methodology, but the result is that less prosperous regions go further, life does not go better in big steps or in larger steps than in Tallinn and in the golden circle. The Social Democrats have made a number of amendments, but first I would say the most important thing: to reverse this principle. At the level of the law, we say that regional differences must be made, that a separate application round must be made for rural areas or that a lower self-financing rate should be applied for less prosperous regions. If this is not justified, whether it concerns the school network, hospitals, universities, it can be explained in a specific measure that there is no need for regional specificities. For example, if the authorities or institutions to which these funds are addressed are located in only two major cities. It's not complicated. However, it should be made clear that when implementing the Structural Funds, it is essential for every decision to be taken to ensure that regional disparities do not increase. This is a decision at parliamentary level; it is a necessary step. The previous funding periods prove that if this principle is not applied, this money will not, in itself, go to more rural areas. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U334	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U335	So I would ask you to support Socialist Amendment 4, which says that regional differences are foreseen at law level when using this money. If this is not possible or necessary, the [specific] measure must explain and justify why these differences are not being applied. In addition to regional differences, previous budgetary periods have had clear horizontal issues at all times, they are equal opportunities or, in fact, regional development and the environment, which must be taken into account in the same way in every decision. This time, in the framework of the review of the strategic development documents, these topics have been included in the "Estonia 2035" strategy, which is a very sensible solution. Reducing the number of strategic documents is necessary for the sake of clarity. However, at the level of the law, it should be repeated what are the horizontal issues that must be taken into account when implementing the Structural Funds. If they have not been mentioned separately, there is just the same possibility that they will be overlooked. So I would also like to ask for support for this amendment. Now, Amendments 5 and 6 [promptly give the opportunity] to apply to the courts without recourse to the appeal procedure can be brought directly before the courts. It is also possible to reinstate the [application] deadline. We have discussed the joys and concerns of broadband over the past few days, all kinds of things really happen. And if the application is not submitted within the deadline, there has been a possibility of recovery so far. They're taking it now. There are not many of these cases and this would not in fact be an obstacle to work or an obstacle to rapid progress with calls for proposals, but it may be very necessary for some applicants. I don't think we should take this opportunity. The Social Democrats do not support the interruption of second reading, but ask for support for their amendments, which would really make it possible to ensure that regional disparities do not increase and that we can use Structural Funds resources more efficiently than in previous budgetary periods, also in order to actually create a level playing field, access to services, infrastructure in regions beyond the centres. So, in particular, please support Amendment 4! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U336	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One major problem in Estonia is that we have more and more losers than winners. The Social Democrats have proposed one way [to mitigate] this situation: if we share the European Union's money when we do these measures, we will think about them, these regions, those people who do not do as well as Tallinn and Tallinn, and Tartu and Tartu. When we look at the analyses of regional development, for example, we take the last human development report and its regional part, it is very clear that regional inequality in Estonia has constantly increased since regaining independence. It's been that way so far. And we put aside other analyses, such as those carried out in Praxis on the use of European Union funds, or the analysis of the implementation of the regional development strategy, which has mainly been prepared or commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, or we will look at some other analysis, for example, the analysis of the Centre for Monitoring for Development of the Riigikogu, all of them say that the increase in regional inequality has a very large impact on the misallocation of European Union funds. And now, on several occasions, I'm going to explain from this remote control why they're misdivided. When we do national support measures, this belief in great clean competition, as we know it, does not always work as it is spoken of beautifully. Here's a good example. If we take a national support measure, where one of Võru- or Valga- or Põlva County entrepreneurs and Harjumaa entrepreneurs can participate, it is often the case that Harjumaa entrepreneurs have more financial resources, more knowledge resources, human resources and simply write a better project and get the money for themselves. And this is how this money is collected in Harjumaa and Tartumaa, not evenly distributed to regions. And as I said earlier, this money really should not be evenly distributed to the regions. Rather, the principle should be that the European Union's resources are transferred more to those regions that are lagging behind. Because the whole principle of the European Union budget is to reduce regional inequality, regional backwardness both within the European Union and within the Member States, including Estonia, where we should deal with it. For some reason, we do application lines where, when we look at the last decisions, more money has gone to Tallinn, Tallinn and Tallinn. But where is the rest of Estonia? Where is the principle that no one is left behind? If we want the economy to do well and the country to do well, I believe that there are no international organisations, including financial organisations, that do not say that the increase in inequality is holding back economic development. The increase in inequality hinders economic development. The IMF has said this; the OECD has said this very clearly. If we look at the situation in Estonia, the wealth will be created in the rest of Estonia at 60% of the European Union average, in Harju County at 120%. Do we want to reduce [the gap]? I think we should. I think it should be a principle to pursue. And I see no reason why we should not put this principle into a law that frames how we share the European Union's resources. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U338	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U339	Thank you. These arguments, which were spoken here by a representative of the Commission, were obviously sought. My questions, for example, were answered exactly the same, the reason for refusing was the same, which we actually pointed out in our proposal. And [we had] a solution. The Socialist proposal is that regional differences are taken into account when the measure is being taken into account, so that the money reaches every place in Estonia, every person, every municipality, every region. And if there is a reason, and these reasons of course are, because some money is intended for urban use, some money is intended for universities and major hospitals, for example, which are located in large cities, then it must also be recorded in this measure and there are no problems. So my call is also to support the proposals of the Socialists, particularly the one aimed at reducing regional disparities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U340	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U341	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The main thing has already been said. We are arguing here when we are talking about the budget, every thousand euros, and now, with one decision, we are giving a huge amount of money to officials to use at their own discretion. But that's not why I came here. All of this has already been said, and that is why the Fatherland has proposed that the bill be suspended. What I'm about to say, you'd think it was rhetoric. But it is, in fact, a concern about political culture and the logic of state governance. Many times today, both during the discussion of the previous draft and the current draft, representatives of the Reform Party said that it was bullshit, but this decision has already been made before, or even initiated by your government. Maybe that's what happened. But I want to stress that the Estonian state is not a wagon that drives under a mountain with inertia. If the wrong decision has been made, it must be corrected and changed, but not boosted and then praised. The governing coalition is always responsible for which policy the Estonian state conducts. Rolling responsibility on previous governments here is perhaps rhetorically right, but it is not right for the development and political culture of the country. And, in my opinion, when it comes to the previous government, we also opposed the solutions that we are adopting quite vigorously here today. But even if we weren't very vocal about it, that doesn't mean that right now we have to sit in the same cart that goes down the hill, just give it a boost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U342	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U343	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably give the shortest speech in my current Riigikogu career right now. I agree with a lot of things. I agree very much with the previous speaker, Mr Lotman, that we do not have to jump on a trip going downhill and push the momentum. I even agree with Mr. Near's reply, surprise-surprise! But what he said was that this bill is really too biased towards the active power, and so it is. However, the right balance must always be found. I also agree with the Social Democrats because the Conservative People's Party has always talked about regional differences. If we want Estonia to develop in a balanced way, we have to make distinctions. Finally, I agree and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia agrees with the proposal of the Fatherland to interrupt the first reading of this draft. The reasons for this we have already heard enough here and they have been constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U344	Thank you. We're on second reading. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U345	Thank you, Mr President. We have a strategy such as "Estonia 2035." It is constantly monitored and the initial analysis of its monitoring metrics shows that there are relatively large differences between regions in this root problem. I would stress that this is an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance, which says we have a problem. I think that we have a problem with this particular draft in this Chamber in the sense that it is not a question of how we are fulfilling our time, either efficiently or inefficiently, but of such a volume of drafts and drafts with such a range of funding will certainly be very important when we are dealing with a crucial national issue before that. I think that this should be the case, because why draw up development plans, work hard on monitoring, if we do not actually go deep into this Chamber before making a decision, in order to give someone the power to design the following measures. I think this is a very big problem. I think that many of us have actually been sitting on the other side of this hatch: in the sense that they have been the head of the local government or as an entrepreneur or as a representative of a non-governmental organisation asking for this money in order to pursue some kind of goal in a certain region, to bring about change. When we do these projects, we often do them out of the will to contribute to the region. I think that, in fact, one of Estonia's worst problems is that any reasonable person who reads the starting conditions of this measure will arrive at [the conclusion] that it is not actually very reasonable to write a project. Because, as Mr Ligi said, money must go where there are more beneficiaries. It's as if this moment of balancing stays in the shadows. And so he goes. If we take even a certain regional bottom, where there is public money, it is a local government. And their funding is already very questionable, their capabilities are very different. And if we make them compete in equal positions, then the result is known in advance. The problem is absolutely not that there is more money going somewhere and less money going somewhere, which can be identified as a problem on its own, but I think the biggest problem is that some people are throwing themselves away, giving up. They say there's no point in doing what I'm playing stupid in this race, knowing in advance where there's more beneficiaries and where there's more power. I've already been pre-defined somewhere where I just don't have such assumptions. I live in the wrong place. It is the number one concern in Estonia that we say with such decisions where it is right to live, either in the golden region or in the non-golden region. In my view, the extremely sad example of regional inequality, even if participation in the labour market, is the availability of certain services in the state [nige]. Exactly this broadband connection, high-speed internet connection is problem number one. People could work in a place where they like to live, but they can't do it, even if teleworking would allow it. They can't do that because the state won't get to them. And we again [think] what this solution might be, and let's say that the municipalities could discuss how to do it if the municipalities fail, then form a cooperative. Maybe it's possible to get money from somewhere, maybe you and the villagers can take the shovels, dig this wire down. And if you don't find this service provider, there's a market failure area. If there is a market failure region... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U346	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U347	And if there is a market failure area, then neither the state has a good measure, because we live in a market economy society. And e-governance is our brave animal, but unfortunately, well, just look, maybe it's more reasonable to live somewhere else. All this rhetoric started with who did it. Did we do it or did you? I think that the Estonian people do not really care who did it. The Estonian people are interested in where we are going. And, to sum up briefly, these discussions have indeed started in a completely different situation where we used to be a country. We did not have such a COVID crisis, we did not have such an energy crisis, we did not have a security crisis. The country is a dynamic unit where we should take into account all the circumstances in which we live at the moment. We cannot develop a country and measures apart from real life. That, in my opinion, is a brief summary of the speech. When we sit here on the ground in Tallinn, we often find that all this could have been done, but look, it is too late now. And if we want to do anything at all, it may be possible to do so in the next seven years, and now Europe should be informed by now. And then we get back with this tail twist and discuss who we are. Are we also part of Europe or are we outside Europe? Somehow this thing's gotten mixed up. If we want Estonia to be strong, we can have it in a regional whole, so we respect the people of all regions. Maybe it's a little small in some places, but maybe it's even prettier than it is here in Tallinn. And the creation of these conditions, so that the few who would like to keep their home values and the traditional way of life in Estonia will also be able to contribute to this is, in my view, absolutely necessary. And it is also necessary to review these conditions in such a way that we first discuss a matter of good national importance, unravel the issues and try to find consensus on this issue. It seems to me that today we are doing such a campaign to get this thing off the ground, and the ministries will write the appropriate measures, and happiness will come to our yard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U348	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U349	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft provides for a national legal framework for implementing territorial cooperation programmes and internal security policy funds implemented by the European Commission during the period 2021 to 2027. I now recall a bit of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When we asked the people of the Ministry of Finance how this draft measures were prepared, how protests were resolved and money distributed, the message was simple: one ministry official communicates with another ministry official. Have you not had the feeling that if we are discussing some sort of EUR 5,000 or EUR 10,000 in this Riigikogu, there will be a heated debate here? Everyone takes the floor, arguing, fighting, there are very heated debates. Right now, millions, hundreds of millions, and nothing. Riigikogu, they say, such meaningless company. They don't know how to calculate, do they understand anything? It was a message from the Commission's waitress. Actually, that's how the rubber stamp is formed. There is nothing [other things to say] unless we decide on the most important subject. It reminds me that when I visited Congressmen in America years ago, they gave an example of how they discussed whether it was right to carry out oil drilling in Alaska. It took 20 minutes for that decision to be taken. But the discussion of the metro ticket took weeks because it affected all members of the [Congress]. At the moment, I get the impression that many of us do not understand what decisions we are actually making and what money will be distributed in the future. We're kind of used to the fact that the post offices went down, and right now they just put boxes in the villages, the person goes and gets his parcels. Life has moved on. If a few years ago they wanted to shut down the old passport boards, there was a scream in this hall. You know that since 1 January, most places have passport boards [opened less days a week]. Has anyone tried to make a statement this year, for example, to exchange an ID card? How many months is the line today? If you get the document by April, it's fine. E-Governance! They say we're talking about May in Tartu. And now we're talking about sharing that money. Let me give you just one example. The distribution of money is an important object for the city of Tallinn, which is Tallinn Hospital. They say county hospitals don't have a perspective. I agree, very important operations and other [complicated] treatments must be carried out in hospitals in Tartu and Tallinn. There are people who are very familiar with this area and who are working on it every day. County hospitals may not have to do all things. But are county hospitals necessary? Does there have to be only one hospital in the county or if there are different large areas in the county where there has been a local hospital, should they be closed down? We've invested in health centres. I have a question about putting a health centre in the river by force, completely illegally and without any decision by the council. It's being built on hospital land. But if this hospital is shut down, what do family doctors have to do with this little health centre when it's not around the house anymore? There's no fear today, it won't happen tomorrow, but there are already rumors that Paide will be the first one to shut it down, and Jõgeva will be in line. We've seen these hospitals go down quietly. We recall Põlva, which caused hot stories and screaming at the end of the previous term right here in the hall. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is eight minutes up? Five? Can I have three more minutes, please? That's the lucky part.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U350	Right. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U351	In my opinion, the role of the members of the Riigikogu must be increased. I don't think this is as bad as they're trying to talk here. People in a wide range of fields are, very different, from entrepreneurs and officials, ending up with specialists who are experts in their field. Politicians decide that in Estonia, the funds available from the state budget as well as the European Union's measures would be distributed fairly in a regional way. Who then has to make this decision if not the Riigikogu, who has actually obtained the mandate? There are elected ambassadors from different regions, who must first and foremost look at the country's overall picture, but certainly fight for their own electoral area. If we surrender these rights and these rights do not remain with the members of the government who have received a mandate from the same Riigikogu, then I ask: really, is it worth paying this 101? Perhaps it could be as the people would like us to come here voluntarily from our work, perhaps once a week, and make these decisions. Or six one week, and the decisions would have been made. Then maybe it wouldn't be possible to pick up these ambassadors' buttons and ask them for or ask for anything. If we don't change this situation ourselves, who else will? I'm sorry, Riina, about you saying you don't support stopping second reading. You should have said, I think, that if our amendments are supported, there is no need to reject them. If your proposals are not supported and you still support the completion of the second reading, I will ask whether the suggestions for improvement were just fictitious or whether you wanted to change something from the heart. I'm sure that's what you wanted from the heart. Let's think about it! And for every bill that comes into this Chamber and that goes to committees, every member of the Riigikogu needs to think that it is actually our job to make these decisions and not to impose them on officials and then to say that they made the wrong decisions. We can make right or wrong decisions and also take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U352	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U353	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, [[In the diner.]] I'm gonna wait until the smart talk's over. Thank you. This is where Aivar said yes, it doesn't make sense to pay pussy like us. I was sitting there, and my colleague, Helir-Valdor, said that of course it wasn't. Indeed, if you go on like this, then you don't. We're a lot of useful idiots, I've said that before. Members of the Riigikogu, yes, but those bumagas and arrangements that come in this case from Europe are said to be impossible. Jürgen says you can't, the wolf's in the way or someone else. In fact, we do not largely understand the most important document we adopt every year from the state budget. Yes, it is said, the government [says] that if [you make] a proposal for improvement, [show] where you take [the cover]. But if the blanket's on and doesn't see, it's really hard to tell where to get it. And then they say you're so stupid you don't even know where to take it. But you know how this thing is, and a little bit is starting to move when we've taken a few steps here. But the general situation is pretty bad. This is currently the case in 2021/2027 and these regulations. I will not repeat what many colleagues have said here. There's a lot bigger things ahead. This morning we met experts on the so-called big green turn, which actually burys us right now, all ministries and all areas of life. We talked about electricity this morning, we talked about renewable energy and all this and the negotiations in Brussels. Remember when Siim Kallas, the chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, did not dare to go along with the initiatives of the dear daughter's government. He realized, as an old Brussels wolf, that everything costs when you lock up your promises. But in the end, they were sent away so our fine diplomats could negotiate. However, we will take into account this situation and this array of documents that already exist, and when the negotiators in Brussels are told that, in fact, these implementing acts and other things have not yet come, they will never come, but they are very important. And the negotiators don't know, not to mention us, what these things are, and we have to make a smart face here. Indeed, we should take our job much more seriously, and we should actually read many more of these documents. Well, I thought Jürgen was here with an old fish, our crotch, probably the longest period that has been ticking in the Riigikogu for a long time. He should know how it works. And I asked him a modest question about the same modest document, but there are many things that need to be regulated, I asked about the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. Last year there were eight rounds: videos for arrivals from third countries, work clubs, craft circles. Yeah, sorry I said Nigerians or Ukrainians. But why not? They belong to the third world, third countries. It doesn't matter. But I asked for 25% of our funding. Well, a million and a half, nearly 400,000 last year. And my... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, beautiful bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U354	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U355	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U356	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U357	I asked Jürgen how it would be regulated. A little thing. There's a lot more of these points, you don't name them here for lack of time, you can read right here. But a good colleague couldn't say anything, but it wasn't discussed. It wasn't discussed, I understand, but you could still have known what would be regulated there if [all] were to be implemented. A little detail, but in this detail, the whole picture actually opens up. Well, and speaking of what I call market failure areas, I come to this fourth amendment, if I remember correctly, it cannot be implemented and it is proposed to send it to the trash. But in many places life is not like in the golden circle of Tallinn or around Tartu. However, [to be supported] cannot be supported. So, nice Wednesday night. It does not feel particularly good to hear Mr Helir-Valdor say that there is no point in paying wages. We're useless men here, but we're happy. But I don't think it's smart to go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U358	Thank you. And now there's a line. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U359	Honorable Head of the Riigikogu at the moment! There's been some mysterious mistake here, and I'd like to sort it out. I do not intend to waive the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, nor have I argued anywhere that members of the Riigikogu should work for free. I know, once upon a time Jaak Allik made such a suggestion that the Riigikogu could work more or less in the regime of the former Supreme Council, that there was a small steering group, a presidium, who would receive a salary, and the rest of you would go from the so-called social grounds to vote here on Toompea. I do not think such a model is suitable for the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, especially because I stress that it is a parliamentary state according to the Constitution, where all the most important decisions, important laws are passed by Parliament, and MEPs must fully commit themselves to the work of this Chamber, to the work of this House, to the adoption of high-quality laws and to the sense of this responsibility. So I'm not suggesting that people work in this hall on very random and social grounds. This does not come into line with my idea, and I do not think it will come together in any way with the idea of a parliamentary state because of our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U360	Thank you. Of course, I didn't see the waitress's face when she was saying all this, and I might not understand the verbatim, but I did feel that these were extremely ironic statements of opinion. We have finished our talks, I am closing the negotiations. We must examine the amendments and then vote on the proposal for interruption. Seven amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U361	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U362	Sure. But first we have to do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of what we are talking about here: SE 487, this is the draft law on the implementation of the European Union's cohesion and internal security policy funds for the 2021-2027 period, and we are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, which was not taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U363	The amendment was supported by 7 delegates, 51 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, also by the Social Democratic Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U364	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U365	I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission being disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U366	The proposal was supported by 7 delegates, 51 were opposed, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee is to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U367	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U368	I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee, which has not taken this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U369	There are 15 delegates in favour of the proposal, 50 against the proposal, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, Group of the author's Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U370	I would certainly ask for a vote on this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U371	I'm sure we'll vote. Please take a stand! Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee, has not taken this into account. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U372	You're getting better and better. It's 29 against 50, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee is to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U373	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U374	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the position of the lead committee is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U375	The proposal is supported by 14 delegates, 50 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the lead committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U376	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U377	I am voting on the sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U378	The amendment is supported by 7 delegates, 50 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission itself. We have examined the amendments. But we have received a request to interrupt the reading. The Fatherland Group proposes that draft 487 be suspended at second reading, and that is what we must vote on. Would you like a hall call, or can we go to the vote now? Then we shall proceed to the vote immediately. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the Isamaa Group to suspend at second reading 487. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U379	22 ambassadors supported the proposal to interrupt, 55 against. The proposal was not supported. The Governing Commission has proposed completing the second reading, the second reading being completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U380	Let's go to the seventh item today. This is the draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, Land Tax Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 406. This bill is also at second reading. I call Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U381	Good chairman of the sitting! Good ambassadors! You have before you draft 406, the Land Valuation Act, the Land Tax Act and the Law amending other laws. The draft provides for the amendments necessary to carry out the regular assessment of the land. The amendments bring the land tax into line with...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U382	Would you please turn down the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U383	A very important draft is actually on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U384	Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep the room down, or the waitress can't talk!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U385	... bring the land tax into line with the market value of the land. Land valuation will be carried out by the Land Board on the basis of data from national databases. The first reading of the draft was completed on 27 October. By the deadline for tabling amendments, 10 November, an amendment to the draft was tabled by the Isamaa Group. Various interest groups were involved, more than 10 in total, and the opinion on the draft was submitted by the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance proposed amendments to the draft. The proposals of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities concerned, in particular, delaying the entry into force of changing tax rates and compensating for the reduction in the income base of local government entities affected by the changes. The proposals made by the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the Private Forests Association and the Chamber of Agriculture concerned the desire to reduce the annual increase in the land tax rate by 5% or 7% instead of 10% and the desire to leave the different rates of tolerance for technical networks and facilities unchanged. At present, instead of 7,5%, the draft consists of 3,5% [of the country's tax price]. The Ministry of the Environment proposed to clarify in the draft the regulation on the periodic valuation of the land, and the Ministry of Finance proposed to adjust the regulation on the presentation of the land tax price report. The Commission held a second-reading debate at its meeting on 7 December and 7 February. On 7 December, representatives of interest groups presented their proposals, and the representative of the Land Board gave an overview of the new land valuation methodology. The proposals presented by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment were presented on 7 February. The commission also decided on 7 February to table amendments and to take the necessary procedural decisions. Five amendments are included in the table of amendments. One of them was from the Isamaa Group and four amendments have been tabled by the lead committee. The first amendment concerns the stages of land valuation. The second is a technical change. The third is the proposal by the Isamaa Group concerning the compensation of local governments for the reduction in land tax due to nature conservation restrictions. The Commission took this view with great support, but felt that it was not directly related to the purpose of the draft and that it had to be discussed separately. The fourth amendment repeals, from 2024 onwards, the provision that, together with the tax notification, the taxpayer must also submit a tax rate measure for the land. It is based on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The fifth amendment is technical, it concerns the date of entry into force. The draft procedure was slightly delayed and the new deadline for entry into force is 15 March. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 16 February, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 23 February. I am happy to answer your questions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U386	There are questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U387	Thank you. Please present to Parliament's House the position of the Owners' Confederation on this draft. And secondly, listen, did the Commission also mention that we are going to have a crazy race that is currently affecting the burden on homeowners of all types of fuel, electricity, gas? And now we're talking seriously about raising the land tax! How did things get so shifty in the Committee on Monetary Affairs right now? It will be discussed at an entirely inappropriate time. At the moment, we should rather discuss how to cut taxes for people in order to ease the inflationary race. But now they're coming up, they're trying to make more creamballs, top-up people's tax burden. People should somehow survive as homeowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U388	Thank you. Good chairman, which question do I have to answer? Is it the first one or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U389	Try answering everyone. Try answering everyone! As far as it was possible to ask, so much time you might be able to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U390	I just thought there was one question, but if there's two, there's two. And when the President of the sitting says...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U391	In fact, he can ask two questions anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U392	But as a second question, I guess. It was really all together, like a creamball. The Commonwealth of Owners opposed the reduction of tolerance rates, for example. In their view, the current 7,5% would be fair. As for the rise of the land tax, this is the wrong idea that the land tax will not rise. That's good news. We are talking about land valuations taking place under market conditions, on the basis of the free market, but the land tax does not change. The price changes, but the liver doesn't. The tax rate remains the same. And, of course, the Commission has repeatedly discussed today's economic situation, but not so much within the framework of this particular draft. I cannot therefore dwell on this because I am a Commission waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U393	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U394	Good manager! Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Maybe you're talking a little bit about why the majority of the Commission didn't support the proposal for the amendment of the Fatherland, which would equalize all the municipalities. After all, the current situation is that some municipalities have protected land on which they do not receive land tax and some municipalities do not have land tax. The proposal was that all municipalities have a level playing field in front of the law and in receipt of taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U395	Thank you. As I have already mentioned, and if my impression is correct, the Commission has now found that this is a very good proposal, but it is simply not very related to the content of this particular draft. But certainly the Commission is looking forward to this draft, which maybe one day will come, and then the situation will probably be different. However, this amendment was not supported by the Commission because it is not directly related to the purpose of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U396	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U397	Good manager! Dear waitress, Now let's make it wooden and red. It is stated here that the valuation [is the basis for] transaction data in the land registry database, data describing the characteristics of the land and data necessary for the analysis of the real estate market. Take, for example, the Liberty Square: a piece of land, everyone imagines it, regardless of who owns it and what is on it now. Make it wood and red, for example, to assess the price of the Liberty Square as someone's land.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U398	The assessment is, I understand, based on similar transactions and will also change the price database. In the future, therefore, this process will be much easier than it is now. Today, if I get it right, there's not gonna be a problem with the Freedom Square. Rather, problems arise where there are very few transactions and no data are available. That's where these scissors can be pretty big. It is easier in this sense in the centre of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U399	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U400	Thank you. Good waitress! Old debts should be settled before the new system comes. We know and talked about [today, too] that the state owes to the municipalities for the land under nature conservation. Were there any comments on the amount of money that the state actually owes under today's regulation, simply has not paid off to the municipalities? And what's the other half? If we are talking about private property, land use at all, land tax as such, then it has never been a very big problem that there is a collection of quite large debts and the municipality has not received the money. Then a system was set up to prevent land tax notifications of less than EUR 5 being issued at all. What's the score today? How many local governments actually have land tax debts? Is there any way you have this review in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U401	Thank you. How much land tax is owed to the municipalities, we did not talk about this in the Commission's key.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U402	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U403	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm sure you've learned this subject in essence, very thoroughly, intelligently. Our argument was whether or not people would increase their land tax burden. How much does the initiator, or government, predict, in absolute terms in the years of implementation, the revenue from the land tax to the local government budget? The author of the draft has pointed out these numbers in the explanatory memorandum, but unfortunately I do not have this original explanatory memorandum at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U404	Thank you. I understand, as well as being a representative of the municipality, that it still depends on how the municipalities behave. Municipalities will be able to reduce the rate of land tax if the price of the land has risen in these 20 years and mostly so. And it's probably what many local governments do. This forecast would be rather difficult, even in spite of today's volatile market situation, so life will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U405	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U406	Good manager! Honourable speaker! You said this bill wasn't about land tax. And you're right, he's talking about the price of the land. And councils have the power to set a percentage. But as long as the percentage has not changed the councils, the law will also change the land tax. It's just that it depends on something. Maybe you're just going to tell me more about what kind of valuation could result in 2024 land tax, for example, on forest land, on farmland, on residential land? They're in here somewhere. Should we pay more at today's percentage in 2025, or will forest land, for example, be cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U407	It certainly does not state which rate of land tax is to be applied by one municipality or another. It's a municipal decision. In the meantime, elections will come and coalitions will change. It is very, very difficult to predict which percentage one or the other municipality decides to put. You and I live in different municipalities, too, and it's probably more difficult to predict that. I really can't see the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U408	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U409	Good manager! Good waitress! I wanted to give you a chance to explain to everyone [making the bill] wooden and red. If there are few deals, then it's like a different result, but I offered the Liberty Square as a model that everyone imagines: in the centre of Tallinn and so on. But that's it. Please talk about the fact that the Chamber of Agriculture has drawn attention to the bottlenecks in this mass assessment. A little opening up this background, the protocols are pretty bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U410	Thank you. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting, but, as I answered the previous question, there may be such anomalies in certain situations. For example, if there are any restrictions on the land, the price will still be considered as a full price and these restrictions will not be taken into account. And so on. The real price, let's say, the result of the valuation may differ significantly from what can be obtained on the market for the sale of this parcel. So these concerns are certainly there, but unfortunately there is no better way to find out the price of the land. If we compare today's situation with the situation that arises after the adoption of this law, it is certainly much more realistic than today's price. We're talking today about a price on the market 20 years ago. In 20 years, the situation has changed a lot, the price has changed several times, in some places by orders of magnitude. So by adopting this law, we are getting much closer to reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U411	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U412	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to that downtown subject for a second. You said there's no problem here, there's a lot of deals. Transactions are made with apartment property and built-in properties, but in order to obtain a reference price, there is a need for transactions made with unbuilt, empty plots. But there are fewer and fewer in Tallinn. Try to find an empty residential plot in Nõmme! These are quite rare transactions, quite exclusive plots are sold, they are quite rare deals. But that's where the comparative data comes from. There's actually a problem here. There are hundreds and thousands of land tax payers here, but if you look at these transactions, the reference price will be based on empty, unbuilt transactions, but these transactions will be reduced in Tallinn, especially in the city centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U413	Yes, there are certainly fewer than built-up plots, or houses [touching], but there may still be more than, for example, Koongas. They sell land there, but these deals are actually lonely every year. There are more in Tallinn, say, maybe even in the same order of magnitude, but most likely more, and that is what gives this comparison. I certainly agree that if demand is higher than supply, the price will rise and that is a problem in that sense. But that's the market price, unfortunately. If people are willing to pay an unreasonable price by looking aside, this is the market and the land tax is calculated on that price.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U414	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U415	Thank you. A passionate subject. I'll ask you this. The basis for the price of the land, how will it be taken in the future? In the case of agricultural land, we understand that [the case] is clear, in the case of forest land the value of the forest and the value of the land under the forest is [the base]. How does it happen? And did you argue in the Commission about this permafrost problem that the municipalities have often been in trouble with the tax rates that are said to be higher than farmland? This is what farmers always say, and from the discussion of foresters and farmers, it also turns out that the field produces every year, the forest once every hundred years. Maybe these rates should be reviewed, harmonised? Was that a debate? And what exactly is this evaluation going to look like now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U416	This debate did not exist in the Commission, but the municipalities do indeed have quite a competence to set tax rates and may even be able to do so in regions. For example, in the case of Pärnu, the tax rate for the city centre is lower because the city wants businesses there. And that's what every local government decides. The introduction of the land tax rate is one of the management mechanisms for the municipality. It is in use today and will certainly be in use even when this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U417	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U418	Thank you. Dear waitress, Was there any mention in the Commission that land tax is a tax received in the local government's budget? We know that for years, or even decades, the current law has not been complied with, regular evaluation has been carried out, and therefore local authorities have lost quite a lot of revenue over the years. Why hasn't any local government tried to sue you? Or has the court been seised, do you have that kind of information? Was that discussed? That's my one question. And another: if the transition period for this new land valuation was not now applied, how much would the price of the land increase in local governments on average on the basis of this new methodology? In the event that the transitional period would not apply, should I stress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U419	Thank you. We haven't discussed the reactions of the local governments. Now, I have already answered quite several times that the municipality can choose the rate of land tax itself today. And since every municipality is different from each other, I can't predict how one or the other behaves. However, it can be assumed that if the price of the land increases significantly, the municipality may reduce the tax rate and thereby soften the situation. That's one. And secondly, how much the price of the land rises or falls in each particular municipality from that average cannot be [offered]. The situation is very specific in each particular municipality. I assume that in 20 years the price of the land has most likely not fallen very much anywhere, but there are certainly places where it has risen considerably more than elsewhere. Compared, I don't know, the municipalities of Pärnu and Lääneanna, for example, are not very practical in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U420	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U421	Thank you. I am still asking about the valuation of this land and the possible rise in the [land tax]. Of course, in different municipalities it can be very different, everything depends on the local government. But are you still able to give some examples of the impact of this bill? Whether it is an example of Pärnu City or an example of Tallinn City. Let's take one municipality and talk about it, let's not talk about the over-estonian average. The ambassadors will then understand what an important draft we are dealing with and what these effects are. Secondly, was there a debate on this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and you reached the same conclusion or assessment as in the previous draft, which was presented here by my colleague? I am thinking here that the Committee on Monetary Affairs came to the conclusion that Parliament is incompetent to take important decisions, and therefore could it be delegated to the executive?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U422	Thank you for four questions. Now, to this conclusion we have not come to the conclusion that Parliament is incompetent. It also follows from the Protocol that such a decision has not been adopted. And now, in answering your third question, [I note] that I have already answered [and said] that it is quite impossible to predict this effect. For example, I am Chairman of the Pärnu Council, I assume that if this law had come into force today, the reaction of the City of Pärnu would be that the municipality would reduce the tax rate considerably in order to cushion this impact on citizens. The way one or the other government behaves, I can't tell you that, really. It is possible that there is no difference between some municipalities and then they can continue with today's tax rate. In some cases [the gap] is and then there is already a [necessary] decision as to whether to predict a higher budget revenue or in any way to cushion the impact of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U423	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U424	Thank you. Those very competent questioners... To comment: their excitement must now prove that they are not involved in this draft. But please tell me, who really prepared this bill, which government, this or the previous one? Is this somehow the initiative of this government? In my case, by the way, this is another point where I have no reproach for the previous government. But please confirm that this has been on the work plan of the previous government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U425	[[Commenting on the matter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U426	Dear friends, I understand the evening is still young, but I will answer the question. Indeed, it was the initiative of the previous government, and it is now carried by Jaak Aab, who was also its ideologyologist in the past. Well, it can be said that it is almost a consensual initiative; only the Social Democrats are regrettably excluded from both governments, otherwise it is mostly party-wide, except for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U427	There's been a procedure. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U428	Thank you. Yeah, I've got a procedural question now. I understand that this is not a draft initiated by the current government. However, we read on the agenda that this is a draft initiated by the government that is still in power. Is there a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U429	Since it's procedural, it's for me. In my understanding, he's still initiated during this government, today's government. But it is also true that the previous government has already prepared for this draft. [[They say something in the hall.]] But Urmas Reinsalu has also developed a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U430	Now, if you're talking about today's government, Mr President of the sitting, it's gonna get messy with Jürgen Ligi's point. What government is in power today, then, because all the time today's government refers to him relying solely on the things that the previous government did? Then, in fact, this is the situation, after all, Jürgen Ligi is an economic geographer, can explain, then it turns out that there is a previous government in power, and that today's government for tomorrow's government is making decisions. Now explain specifically to Parliament, here you now have such porridge twisted together.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U431	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U432	Thank you. I'm coming here as a colleague to help. Please also confirm by the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the government of Kaja Kallas is currently in office, but this bill [could be carried] such an epithet as the "cross-party bill" has been accepted by everyone. The previous government started preparing it. Please confirm my words.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U433	Thank you. The Monetary Commission has not discussed the change of government either at its meeting on 27 October or at its meeting on 10 November. And I have already answered that in two governments, all political parties represented in Parliament, except the Social Democrats. They stayed out, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U434	Aivar Kokal has developed a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U435	Yeah, procedural. Just that Commissioner Jürgen asked if it was cross-party. He could read the minutes, although he also took part in the vote. The Fatherland voted against it. And then, when there was a second reading... (Jürgen Ligi comments: "Then when the seat had changed. ") Wait a minute! And the previous government...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U436	Easy, easy! One person at a time is trying to talk in this hall. Quiet, please! Aivar Kokal is a procedural question, but the question has not yet been reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U437	As far as I know, Jaak Aab is a minister in today's government. The previous government did not bring land tax to the Riigikogu, and I know clearly that the Fatherland Party did not support it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U438	It wasn't procedural. I'm still asking, people, we have a second reading, everyone can give a speech. There's eight minutes to explain their nuances, so let's not go into the wrong genre in the wrong format. Peter Ernitsa has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U439	Yeah, good manager! Since the third reading is ahead of us, I propose that you add one letter. It says 'The Government of the Republic', but at third reading you could put 'The Governments of the Republic' in motion'.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U440	Peter, it is now that the deadline for amendments is over. Today is the second reading in the large Chamber, the deadline for tabling amendments is over. Well, that's procedurally clear. Let's get on with the questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U441	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would also point out that the draft explanatory memorandum states in the same way that its intention to develop it has been put to work during the previous government. And I am also amazed by the short memory of colleagues in the Fatherland. It is not remembered that this bill has been dealt with seriously, and it is not remembered what it is. And then there's this kind of intimidation going on here. And now I'm getting to my question. Good chairman of the committee, maybe you'll explain a little bit about what's clearly in the draft. Several times it has been said that the land tax will rise tomorrow and rise tens or hundreds of times. Did you also mention in the Commission that the land valuation will actually take place in 2022, it will be taken into account in 2024, and the municipalities will then be able to decide on the rate of land tax to which they will apply it. And the bill also sets a limit that more than 10% per year must not rise to land tax. Did you guys talk about that? Maybe you'll open up this debate a little bit, then you'll get the answers and get the fears down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U442	I am not quite sure about opening this debate, but, indeed, I have already replied repeatedly that the land tax rate will not change. The price of the land may change as a result of the valuation and local authorities can respond accordingly. They can, for example, change the tax rate so that the result for the taxpayer is the same as today, i.e. nothing will change for him if the municipality thinks it is right. The way local governments behave, I don't know how to predict, it's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U443	No further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U444	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U445	We have reached negotiations during the 406 debate on the draft. I'm opening negotiations. Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U446	Humorists and the dark in this room love to defend this bill right now, I think, with all the respect and goodwill I show against my colleagues. Indeed, the clear objective of this draft is, of course, an increase in the income of land tax, i.e. an increase in the land tax burden. Although the rapporteur did not really want to answer this for certain reasons, all I have to do is quote a draft law initiated by the previous government, the sunrise government, which provides for a target: the aim is that the share of land tax in GDP should be the same as it was in 2000 because the relative share of land tax in GDP has fallen, and that it would achieve 0.39% of gross domestic product. What is really more than 300 million euros if we take today's GDP. Undoubtedly, compared to the fact that we have a total land tax receipts of 50 million today, we imagine that if the land tax burden were to rise to 0.39% of GDP according to today's government's draft, it will be a repeat of growth. The initiators of the draft act have also made a mistake in taking an example, an example of one plot of Nõmme, and taking into account how much of the total income of the household, the whole family, would constitute a tax burden after the draft has been implemented. And they take [based on] the fact that at present the land tax rate on this site is 2.2% of the total household income in Nõmme for this household, a hypothetical large plot of land for the household, and it would increase to 3.2%. Perhaps in essence [growth] is 1% for the whole household. Mom works, Dad works. And 1% goes for what? It's going to be an additional land tax burden. And this action [will accompany] the hidden dim that the municipalities will actually determine for themselves. Excuse me, what do you mean, the municipalities are going to decide for themselves? When we are talking about housing tax rates, the actual effective rate of taxation is, in essence, close to the maximum rate today, which is allowed at 2.5% [by] 2,35%. That's the mean you take. I do not know which method this average is described in the impact analysis of this draft. And there is, in fact, no guarantee or understanding that the municipalities will, as is said here, make a reduction in the land tax. I daresay. On the contrary, that is not the purpose of the bill. The draft clearly reveals that homeowners will have to pay additional hundreds of millions of euros per year for land tax. That's the government's goal. The second thing about going after the purse is that they want to reduce the percentage of the farm fee. There is no way to agree with that either. It's like one hand wants to take that tax revenue from several baskets at once. I'm sure that doesn't make any sense either. Now, there's [anything good] in the bill. I'm going to move to a more positive side, life isn't exactly in minor tones, and there's definitely a more positive side. And here I dare say about authorship that in our time we were in government with the Reform Party, also with some other party, and there are competing parties who are now very ashamed of the authorship and embracing it on the shoulders of Isamaa. But indeed, it was disgusted at this proposal to extend the tax exemption for land under homeland to land with a compound destination. It's been a demand for the Fatherland for years, and it's in here now. In fact, it would be wise to scrape this bill now so that only this proposal remains. Now, from the point of view of the honourable opponents, you see, it was the previous government that started this thing. I can say that indeed, the Fatherland cannot escape this responsibility. We have carried out and initiated, even though the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi at the time erupted like a fire-breathing mountain with his criticism, the tax exemption of the land under home. It's a beautiful thing whose virtues appear in this historical perspective. And, of course, we have been opposed over the years to a sharp rise in the real land tax, the burden of an effective land tax. The right thing is, this bill has a number of shock absorbers. This concerns both the introduction of this additional tax burden and the introduction of a barrier-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-shop with 10% jumps. But the result is still unambiguous: it will, of course, result in an additional tax burden on people [if the target is mentioned] in terms of GDP. And now I'm coming to this grotesque timing. Look, wrong time and the wrong place to deal with this thing right now. We are going to survive, we are currently having the highest inflation rate in Europe. Not figuratively, but actually. We have a situation where we have an entire housing cost catalogue relating to goods and services related to housing maintenance, especially heating, in the form of a virtually increased grotesque explosion. And now [have] been regulated by the burden of land tax, and [decided] precisely at that moment [have] shot the Estonian homeowners in the back. You'd better come up with a sang bomb like that. No, thank you. Wrong time, wrong place. In the current situation, when we are talking about autonomy, the same draft of this government sets a clear objective that the government is pursuing. And don't sneak up behind the local governments that the local government will see if it does or doesn't. Your goal is one: your goal is to increase the share of the land tax to 0.39% of GDP in gross domestic product, and it concerns, as I have pointed out, households where it grows by 1%. In the example of a particular household, which is proudly displayed by the initiator of the bill, signed by Jaak Aab, the guarantor of continuity, both in the previous and [current] government, for all sins and virtues. Guys, there's no other alternative. This thing has to be interrupted and the signals associated with the growth of the land tax have to be drained out of it. But certainly, as I said, the issue of land with a compound destination, which is particularly topical in a number of densely populated areas, must, of course, be resolved without delay. With this thing, we've been creating injustice for a long time. And, I'm sorry, what does that mean, "caused injustice"? This question, this analysis, we had on the table, Jürgen, already in the 2015 Coalition Agreement. But somehow somehow he got stuck, didn't take the wind into his wings. I don't know why. Now, indeed, for the facet of this idea of the Fatherland being put into practice, I commend today's government. It's kind of symptomatic at all, kind of what the Americans say. In all things, they only try to pin commercial signs on the previous government, that the previous government will lead, and the bosses of today's government will take such a position that if we could lead, we would lead differently. If you're driving from the back, get some rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U447	Thank you. Reception or reply. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U448	Thank you. Once again, I must say that I do not have any proposals for Urmas Reinsalu on this issue, nor do I have any proposals for the government to which he belonged. Thank you, too, for confirming that this had been a draft in the previous government's work programme. But I don't thank him for lying. This draft does not aim at any percentage of GDP... (from the place of Reinsalu: "It was written there.) ... does not aim to increase land tax, but merely to identify the marginalisation of land tax now and to deal with the issue of land valuation. The issue of land valuation must be dealt with on a regular basis, and that is the point of this draft. But the second point, of course, is that the resulting tax price is an opportunity for municipalities. This is not about raising land tax, but about a small amount of tax autonomy, especially land valuation, and not about raising the tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U449	Do you have a procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U450	No, Mr. Ligi performed with a reply. I'd take that opportunity, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U451	Yeah, but we don't really have that in our house and our rules of procedure. You had a call, you mentioned Mr. Ligi. Mr. Ligi did a rejoinder and mentioned you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U452	Okay, okay, then I'm gonna ask Mr. Koka to mention me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U453	Exactly! If Mr. Chef mentions you, you will receive a rejoinder. Now I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U454	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of the truth and for the sake of the verbatim, we say that yes, the officials of the Ministry of the Environment have prepared land tax [amendment of the law] several times. As long as I have been here in the Riigikogu, our group has rejected it and our ministers have not taken it to the government either, we are talking as Minister of the Environment about the Pomerants or Siim Kisler. And the previous government was not 2015, which Urmas Reinsalu previously noted. These are like different times and several governments before that. But I want to come to that same land tax. First of all, I am extremely sorry that coalition politicians did not understand the proposal to amend the Fatherland. We treat our municipalities differently today. We have municipalities in Estonia, where there are a lot of land under nature conservation, there are municipalities where there are none. And the municipalities that own them in the Commission, a coalition politician, said that they are happy to have nature reserves. But they're gonna lose the land tax. And now let's talk about land tax. For some reason, no one here has spoken of two truths. 2001 was last evaluated as land. Let's talk about farmland. I know what cost farmland at the time, it cost 15,000 kroons, or 1000 euros [hectare]. Today, the cost of a rkm is €6,000.8000, i.e. the starting price will increase up to eight times. Now, for this eight-fold price, regardless of how small the municipality can make its percentage, the percentage will increase in ten years, if you talk about 10% a year at all times, 2.6 times. If you don't know math, I suggest you get a computer where these numbers can be defeated. Put 10 and then multiply it 10 times 1, 1, you'll know how much it actually grows. That's 2.6%. Maybe eight times first, and then 2.6% more. Size 20 times. You've got to be kidding me! 20 times while we've had all the costs multiplied. Seven times the gas, which is virtually nothing to compensate the owner of a private house. We have increased electricity prices and electricity prices are compensated only for those who play on the stock market. Those who have fixed the price will not be compensated. Then [social support is available] to nearly 400000, but 50000 use it. I'll tell you how many people have actually calculated the price of this land tax. And then I ask you, if the land tax grows that much, then when a small percentage of the municipality can be put in. A little bit should be calculated. It's very easy to look at the bill once and for all, that 2024 is the first liver, 2025 is the liver, 10% is rising. I'm looking at today's price as if it doesn't. But even if we had members of the Riigikogu received the electricity bill in December in January and it had increased over and over again, for some members of the Riigikogu it was almost half the salary that went there. Then it was a fright. The shock comes when it's on its own wallet. Yes, thank God, the Fatherland Party has passed the law on the tax on the land of homeland in this very hall three times ago, that this land will not be taxed. But everything else is taxed. We will, of course, also tax the land under home, if it is already more than 0.2 hectares. This understanding and thinking should take some time. No one can argue that the price of the land is in the way of time. But we will appreciate today, in 2022, when all prices have risen. Real estate prices have risen virtually not in percentage terms, but in repeats. Look who you live in Tallinn, look at what your apartments are paying today compared to what they paid four years ago or, let's say, three years ago during their membership. And I can tell you that the apartment I bought five years ago is exactly twice as expensive today in many places. And now we're just not discussing it. Earth tax has grown dozens of times, we just put 2.6 more times on that end, and let's say these people are gonna make it. Many, of course, think about it, and I will no longer be in the Riigikogu. I will then be at home and be able to pass this on to the Riigikogu or the local government. Because in fact this scream is not going to the Riigikogu, but it is going to reach the municipalities, because in reality the recipient of the land tax and the percentage of the land tax are determined by the local government council, no one else. But the land valuation decision and how this price is going to rise is still being made here. I don't understand why a year has to be added with 10% if we already know that this price is utopianly more expensive than what it was in 2001. Yes, we can blame everyone we've been to the government for not having done land valuations in previous periods. I admit, I dare say that, as Mr Reinsalu mentioned, when we were in the government, we did not agree to this because it raises [tax]. And I admit that's why I didn't agree that it would have a two-way effect. It affects our people on the one hand and affects our businesses on the other. Yes, I also agree with those in this hall on the side of the coalition that this is an important revenue base for the local government. I'm not gonna argue with that. I think I'm a member of the municipal council with the longest standing in this hall. I don't think there's anyone in this room with a longer period. Let's think that maybe it's still right to stop reading the second reading. If I have to, I can show you on the table how hard this earth tax really is going to grow. And I believe that today's coalition politicians, also Jaak Aab, who has been the maker of bringing this bill into this hall, will realize at that moment that, if this number is 20 times, 20 times [growth] nobody thought about it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U455	Thank you very much. And now it's really a reception. But first there's a procedural question. Maybe the microphone isn't working or there are technical problems. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U456	Thank you. I was just waiting for your reply, "Acceptance." The previous speaker certainly mentioned my neighbour on the left only in terms of quoting. Just like he said. I do not believe that there is now a reception [incoming], but now such a reverberation is coming. I'd rather not say anything like that. [[Urmas Reinsalu comments from the position, the manager rings the bell.]] This will lead to unnecessary waste of time, perhaps in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U457	Thank you. The renegade, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U458	Thank you. My message is that it seems that the initiators of the bill are now acting like mice under the bed: first, they say with one breath: "No, the land tax does not rise! It's crazy whether it gets up or not, no one can say that. " The explanatory memorandum gives a clear answer here. [[Summing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]] And second, they say, "But you did it! You started this thing. " Here I would like to point out that it is becoming almost endemic in the present coalition. I watched how it was... And you see, now I'm complaining here, Jürgen, right, to the chairman of the hearing...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U459	Good waitress, I apologize, I apologize to you for a moment. I'm asking for silence in the hall tonight. Hello! Calm down, please! Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U460	Yes, thank you! Under the last item on the agenda, when we discussed the European Union's cohesion and internal security policies, I was able to fight to see that everything was prepared during the previous government that was in place. Under the previous item, we discussed education grants, and even during that time I was able to fight for seeing how funding for higher education was organised during the previous government. It seems to me that this apotheosis was achieved by referring to the previous government in Mrs. Prime Minister's pronouncement on Monday when I was able to fight for not dealing with the issues of the current Ukrainian war and crisis eight years ago when I was Minister of Defence. I think it's such funny rhetoric that everything that actually happens in the country or the decisions that the government takes with its political mandate, it's all a matter for the previous government. I don't think it's just dignified. However, the government and the coalition should not be ashamed and afraid of their decisions, whether they are good or bad, by looking at the government itself and the coalition, but also take political responsibility for it, not to give the impression that there are somehow such waiters [who] bear the legacy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U461	Thank you. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U462	Thank you. I'll try to make the question mark big behind my question, but I'm actually asking the same question you didn't answer. Do you not think that the point of the Rules of Procedure is a reception? The right will be given by the ambassador when the person is mentioned. But what was happening now was this kind of talk of hacking, of party-to-party hacking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Are you sure that the purpose of the Rules of Procedure Act is to waste time quoting and praising each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U463	Thank you. I do remember this practice in the Riigikogu that, if there has been a wish of political parties to extend the negotiations, there have been a remote control, ten names said, and everyone has taken the floor. So these things have been here before, in our work placements, yes, and more. A procedural question, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U464	Thank you, good manager. There has been a great deal of talk here about previous governments. But Urmas Reinsalu is great in his genre. She talked to me about the Prime Minister and pointed the pen at me. I'm sorry, did he tell you about any future government? [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U465	Thank you. It may have to be taken as a compliment, Riina Sikkut. But I don't know what Urmas Reinsalu meant by that. But let's keep going. It's been a long time waiting for Aivar Sõerd. I would like you to join the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U466	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in international comparison, Estonia's share of property taxes is the lowest in OECD countries. And also in this comparison, the share of property taxes in tax revenues is a downward trend. The share of property taxes in our overall tax burden has decreased nearly twice over the last 18 years. But, good listeners, we have to mention here once again, in an objective way, that the draft was on the agenda of the previous government. And not just on the work plan. In March 2020, there was also a memorandum at a government meeting, and not only the work plan was there. In April 2020, when the previous government included the high-level work period of the Fatherland, the decision was made to carry out a regular land assessment in 2022. I am not saying this here to address the issue of responsibility. I am speaking because these choices, these decisions were made for certain reasons and on the basis of certain arguments. First of all, what was the problem solved? The problem was solved that the land valuation, the modernisation of our land valuation, should have been done a long time ago. And that argument also applies today. Moreover, thanks to this assessment, which is taking place or at least the principle should be based on market value, the public will also receive better information about the market value of the land. And thirdly, the aim was also to increase the budgetary independence of local governments. This argument also applies today. And indeed, the last regular land valuation took place in 2001. In the meantime, the value of the land has increased on average more here in Tallinn and around Tallinn, perhaps less elsewhere, but on average seven times. But although the value of the land has increased many times, it does not suddenly mean an increase in the land tax. First of all, it's the defense mechanisms of the law. The maximum tax rates are brought down: if it is currently 2.5% on residential land, it will fall to 0.5%. A limit of 10% on the annual increase in the land tax amount is also set to avoid a sharp rise. Now, that's the calculation that Aivar Chef used to do in his work. But these are maximum limits; the municipality can also apply lower tax rates. It is calculated, I understand, that if, for example, the tax rate is not 0.5%, but the municipality applies the tax rate, it is estimated that this is the way to be derived, 2.6%, then the tax burden will remain the same. So much depends on the decisions of local government councils. And the timing that we talked about here. Of course, energy prices are high and inflation is now at the top, but the land assessment will be carried out this year, but it will only be implemented in 2024. This intermediate period is also a time for municipalities to think about these changes, to discuss them with communities and, of course, to have time for landowners to adapt. Okay, three more minutes, please. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U467	Yes, it can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U468	The municipality also states that the land tax is one of the important sources of income for the municipalities, and changing its valuation also ensures the future income base of the local authorities. I myself am a member of the Viimsi Council, and I think that we are trying as much as possible to avoid an increase in the tax burden. And when we reach these discussions and decisions in 2023 in order to implement this new regime in 2024, before that we have to discuss these matters with the community in our area, we must consider local priorities and also assess people's solvency. That's what I was gonna say. Our party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U469	You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U470	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U471	Thank you for the sustainable use of time. I now ask Riina Sikkut to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U472	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Aivar Sõerd spoke very nicely about both our tax structure and the role and importance of the land tax to date. I would add that, indeed, under the Land Tax Act, land tax is a tax levied on the cost of taxation of land. And my question is that if we have not updated the price of the land for 20 years, will this tax now be in line with the principle of the law and the price of taxation of the land. Secondly, as Aivar said, the municipality can actually decide how to use this instrument. The current situation, the reality, is that local governments are very little able to influence and change their income base. Land tax has been one of its instruments for regulating revenue, but since this tax price is no longer up to date, it has actually been withdrawn from the municipalities. We see that much is also being applied to the maximum rate and so on. If municipalities want to provide more social welfare services to people, for example, they do not really have the opportunity to obtain additional income by modernising the price of the land. In addition, we must undoubtedly also talk about the technological change that has taken place and about the data that has become available to us. We actually have the possibility to use the transaction data in order to assess the value of some land in very specific terms, not just in two or three zones, but in order to set the tax price much more precisely. So municipalities get, like, really an instrument to change their income base. We use the data that exists, and we apply the meaning of the law. If you look at the role of land tax, it is more modest in Tallinn than elsewhere. But regardless of whether you look east or west, the municipality of Alutaguse or the municipality of West Coast, the income from land tax actually exceeds 10% of all the tax revenues that the municipalities have. So it can't be said that he's somehow marginal or insignificant. This is very important for many municipalities. Here much has been described in this amendment of the Fatherland, which would actually allow municipalities with a large number of land protected by nature, with a 50% lower land tax obligation, to actually obtain all the land tax revenue. As an example, Alutaguse was introduced, where the role of land tax in the budget has been great, but the limitation imposed by the state results in less revenue. The Social Democrats support the Fatherland amendment so that it can be compensated for by the municipality so that it can be covered in the municipal budget for the loss of tax revenue due to the restriction. And here comes the same thing [game] that we have talked about several times today in the Chamber: it is the balancing of regional differences. There are no nature reserves in the city centre of Tallinn, there is no land tax forgone here, but also in municipalities where there are many areas with conservation restrictions and who often cope poorly because they are municipalities with lower budgets, it is necessary to provide social welfare services to people living there. If we also look at the age distribution in municipalities, these municipalities often need social welfare services more than better managed municipalities. So I would really like to support local authorities to be compensated for land tax losses due to nature conservation restrictions. Now, this concern about the increase in land tax in the already high price rise situation is in no way in vain. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U473	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U474	Thank you. The hope is, as economic analysts say, that this double-digit inflation will not last us for years. Perhaps by 2024, when the new land tax rates apply, we will be back at somewhere in inflation of 4%. However, in this situation too, it must be taken into account that the availability of homes, both in the city and in the country, is already much more difficult than in the past. In a situation of high inflation, people have become more difficult to cope with. Also in 2024, if the rise in the land tax can hit people, other instruments must ensure that someone's coping is not compromised. Whether the reason is that agricultural land is becoming more expensive and reflected in the price of agricultural products, such as potatoes and elsewhere, it finally arrives in the store, reaches people's wallets. And we cannot allow the tax increase to make it harder to cope. Undoubtedly, just as the child benefit, the 19-euro child benefit, remained in the way of time, has been discussed in exactly the same way. Several governments have planned to carry out a regular land assessment, and that is what needs to be done. The Social Democrats support it. That's the right thing! Unfortunately, time is wrong, timing is bad. But we can manage these risks. The right thing to do must be done, but it must be mitigated by the risks that someone's really having a bad time is going to be hit. The government actually has the means to mitigate these risks. So we support the land's regular evaluation and progress with the bill, but I also knock on the government's conscience that instruments to mitigate the risks of coping should be put in place immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U475	Thank you. I'm so sorry, I just wanted to say that there are no protected areas in the city centre, but I remembered Aegna's landscape protected area, which became part of the city centre established in 1991. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja. Please! [[They say something in the hall.]] We were talking about downtown.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U476	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the Commission rapporteur said that the tax increase was not a goal, but Mr Sõerd came to the remote and immediately said that according to the OECD assessment, property taxes are the lowest in Estonia. I guess he tends to be so that in Parliament we are not just talking a nice story here, the basis of all state administration is revenue and expenditure. Somehow, the state needs to be able to operate in such a way that there is something on the revenue side that can be developed at the same time. But let's keep going. We will take all this implementation of the common agricultural policy between 2023 and 2027. We can compare ourselves to other countries in exactly the same way. Let us see how much direct aid we have and how high it is elsewhere. And actually, we're going to get to a new scale and then we're going to look over the position where Estonia is. It's not pretty. And if we now think that everything we are discussing here today could be implemented in 2025, unfortunately, it coincides with the same CAP operational programme for the years 2023 to 2027 where land is one of the very important inputs in the production process. If, here, we are banging on businesses, while subsidies are decreasing, in addition to the greening, due to the additional tax burden, it actually needs to be assessed very seriously. And it is precisely in this Chamber that I think there should be an evaluation, we should not say that it is a decision of a local government, and that the local government must look at it as if it were within these limits. We all understand that local authorities outside the golden circles must cope with declining conditions, [while] people's expectations of the quality of life of society continue to grow. It is inversely proportional, and those who become elected and set up must receive [necessary] resources from somewhere. And once the legislator has given us this opportunity, the farmers will, unfortunately, come here to Toompea with their tractors and their cross-breeders. That's what we've seen. And this problem is still in the courtyard of all of us, the Estonian people, unfortunately, here in Tallinn. But, well, that's one detail. Of course, [on one hand] is a private person with his own land, for whom benefits have already been granted in the past. In addition, we really need to talk about the big problem, the failure to do it, and we could even say that the country's arrogance towards local governments. The tax exemption for land under nature conservation granted to the land owner, the local government, has simply been cruelly abandoned [unreimbursed]. I do not think this is fair from the end, and it is not right in the sense that paradoxically, it is written in figures that nature conservation is not worth. If you have an economic forest, that's what it's worth. But if you have a forest under nature conservation, then its value is something quite different, and the state here takes no responsibility for the local community and the municipalities. Unfortunately, it is also very uniquely transmitted to the community when there are few inhabitants and land protected by nature. RMK has also given very clear answers to the fact that we do not clean up this ally on the public road, because it is a nature conservation area and we do not plan logging there. It is out of account of the economic forest and we see no reason to contribute resources to it. These are real situations. I'd like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U477	Yeah. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U478	I'll take three minutes if I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U479	Please, yes! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U480	Thank you. However, an even more bizarre and innovative situation lies ahead of us in the context of this whole climate package. We are dealing with the transposition of very different directives. We have reached a situation where, in the context of Natura sites, one authority has told itself that for two and a half years we are shutting down an important resource, a forest resource in the Natura areas. Closed in the sense that there is no economic activity in these wooded areas in terms of logging. It is polite to say that you can camp, it is also an economic activity in terms of tourism, but you must not cut the forest for two and a half years. At the same time, it is very clear to the owners that we can deal with nature conservation hand in hand. It is not possible to protect nature apart from the owner. At the same time, for a period of two and a half years, a limit is, in principle, imposed on 13000 hectares behind the barns, in a situation where the Parliament does not even discuss it. It is not the legislator's question, it is the officials who say that this is the way property is handled for two and a half years. At the same time, we are working on a directive, a directive on renewable energy, where we are actually going to define the value of this resource that is growing on the ground and we are going to say whether or not the wood that is growing in the Natura site, in the protected area, in the precious habitat, in the target zone is a renewable resource. In fact, with this decision, we are also shaping the value of this property on earth on the basis of certificates of origin. We say that this wood cannot be used as energy wood in the future, for example. You can chop as if you get a notification from the forest, but unfortunately you don't have it anywhere because it's not a renewable natural resource. Exactly the same thing happens to the line corridors, to some kind of protective polygons, where we dump the resource and say it can't be used. I would like to ask you if this is sustainable management. Is this the sustainable use of resources? And the other way around, what's the compensation for the landowner? So far, we have been talking about even greater restrictions, and we have been gently talking about some kind of compensation. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In fact, even these compensations are very much in the way of time; they are not really up to date. Hence my appeal to Parliament to get it together anyway. If we want to get more land tax, or property tax, from the owner, then maybe we should take our feet out of the belly and also pay the owners whose assets we restrict, a modern fee for these restrictions, because they cannot fully use their property. It is probably not possible to develop society on the principle that having power, that right. The citizen is always smaller, it is expensive to go to court with the country and our role should be to prevent it, or to raise the common part every day. And I think we have a lot more room for thought in this draft [in the process] than whether it was the previous coalition, the previous one or the [in the present one] that made it germinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U481	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner. And I'm already looking at you. We're gonna make it three more minutes. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U482	Thank you very much, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, One might say that, indeed, this bill also contains those moments that could be satisfied with. Indeed, Urmas Reinsalu has already pointed out here that this solution to the compound destination [the problem of the land], which has been in the air, has finally been included in the legislation. And another point which deserves to be said: of course, for the municipalities, every euro that comes is crucial, because today the municipalities are clearly underfunded. It is the unfinished work of this hall, that it has not been possible to provide local governments with a systematic and comprehensive income base, an income base that ensures autonomy. Of course! And now, by raising this land tax, they're trying to get in the shadow of their unfinished work, that what's not done is that, well, we've sort of done something, a little bit. Good coalition partners! If you really want this bill to receive any more positive feedback, it is essential to support the amendment of the Fatherland. I'm gonna talk a little bit about the back of it. When another large reserve was created on the border between Raplamaa and Harjumaa and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus was the Minister of the Environment at the time, the local governments were promised with a large mouth that, of course, we would reimburse you for all the land tax you would not receive. I'm afraid it didn't come. I was an elder in Kohila at the time, and the subject was a mess. A considerable number of municipalities have already been gathered behind their backs to go to court against the state, as this is clearly an unfinished job for the state. This is comparable to the process initiated by the municipality of Jõelähtme to compensate for educational expenses. And now we're getting to the last government. When the previous government had land valuation and land tax issues on the table, it was clearly added that this issue must also be resolved. This was an important detail ♪ I dare not say whether it is most important, but extremely important. And now they say it's really 4.2 million, isn't it money? For 20 years, this 4.2 million has been avoided, which is [80 million in total]. For 80 million, the municipalities have done nothing. And to say it doesn't deserve anything is just ridiculous. The organisation of nature conservation is the responsibility of the state. And the state is obliged to compensate the municipalities for the loss of income. This amount, 4.2 million, maybe with the first push it seems that it is not very large, but the state does not even intend to compensate the municipalities for such a small amount. And then they say, you know, you might realize that this law will significantly improve the state of the municipalities, the revenue base. Well, let's patch up those old debts first, and then we'll see what we do with the new ones! But I'm afraid it's not recommended. Mr Metsoja, a good colleague, touched on the new precedent. The Director-General of the Environmental Board himself proposed and implemented it: nearly 50,000 hectares of forest land that had been in the restricted zone so far was essentially excluded from the economy, i.e. it was raised to the same level as the target protection zone. Of course, owners have the expectation that they will now be exempt from land tax. And the municipalities are missing land tax for nearly 50,000 hectares. This is not a problem in the coalition's opinion. Perhaps, first of all, solve the [worries] that arise directly from the law. And then we could really think about how to increase the local governments' income base as a whole. The fact that municipalities receive additional income is indeed a positive aspect of this draft. However, a number of previous speakers have said, for example, Mr Riina said, Mr Reinsalu said that the timing of this compensation mechanism, in the context of the implementation of these measures, is, of course, extremely important. Our people, who are physically obliged to pay this land tax, must cope with it so that it does not move them to sell lands. That, too, is actually a very negative sign when the owners say I'm selling this land. There's a consolidation of lands, which is very bad. The more landowners we have, the stronger the Estonian state will actually be. There is no doubt about that. And this law must certainly not be such as to force people to give up their lands in order not to pay a very high tax. Such an analysis would have been more awaited when dealing with the draft. I do not believe that this side has been adequately addressed. So I really call on everyone to support and eliminate the Fatherland amendment [indebtedness]. The State has so far tried to avoid this, [has not wanted to] compensate the municipalities for the loss of land tax which has not been collected for the performance of the State's tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U483	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu's speech chair, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U484	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to comment on the organisation of this sitting. The Rules of Procedure Act states that the Chairman must direct the work of the Riigikogu. And when it comes to the receptions, the President of the Riigikogu is not a matter of praising the circumvention of this provision. It has also been the custom of this hall that we do not come here to name our own to give them an extra word. In fact, it damages the work of the Riigikogu. These have been bad precedents, as well as rare precedents, when the opposite is the case. I would like to begin by congratulating Aivar Sõerd for pointing out important aspects of how this draft belongs to both this and the previous government that decisions have been taken by the previous government. And since we do not have any reproach for this, neither in terms of objectives nor in terms of realization. We commend the previous government on this point. At the same time, I would ask Aivar not to ask or the manager to give him an additional statement to that effect, that I called him, because praising is not the same thing as saying in return, as has just happened here. Okay. I can't praise the opposition. It has been a parade of hypocrisy, saying that you know nothing and that we raise taxes. No, it's a regular land assessment. This is what the previous government supported. Everyone knows that this regular assessment is also part of the tax procedure, and it is false to say that the objective is some kind of tax level. No, it's not. Most parties go to the top of the table in front of the municipalities as some kind of social risk group, to whom they must always bow, to whom they must always give money and who themselves are not capable of anything. I say that the municipality is a dignified institution who must make a dignified decision on how much he collects from his citizens. It's definitely not a risk that he collects too much, too much to consider. Everyone knows you won't be forgiven. But they should have the opportunity to decide their own revenue base. And there is no more natural local tax than the local country tax. Come on, local governments! Come on, middle power! Give them a chance to decide for themselves! I would also say that, in fact, municipalities should also be entitled to exceptions. This would help prevent the unpleasant social risks that may result from going to land tax collection more than so far. So it is a matter of autonomy of the municipality, of tax autonomy, but above all, it is a matter of regular valuation of the land, which has not been done for a long time and which has been the work done by several governments, including our governments. At the moment, we support the previous government to make this decision. And, of course, very hypocritical is the talk that today [can't do this], because energy prices [have increased] and we may have a two-digit inflation here. No, there is no double-digit inflation. The average annual inflation rate was 4.6% last year, with an estimated 6.8% this year. We don't have any other projections. On the basis of two months no decision can be taken on annual inflation. The land tax is an annual fee. What is more, this has nothing to do with what current inflation is, because decisions do not enter into force until 2024. That's how to say, timeless regulation. This is timeless regulation; current energy prices have nothing to do with it. This is a perfectly normal timeless land valuation in the sense that the land valuation decision, based on which tax rulings are made in a particular situation, is made by other institutions. More time, please. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U485	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U486	Well, a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U487	Please, a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U488	So, according to this bill, no one's paying the tax. The tax increase is a very harsh limit, 10%, maybe not even be necessary. And no one's gonna starve for that if the authorities take advantage of that maximum. But it is the responsibility of the municipalities and we [don't pay] here to nag each other that you see, you raise taxes. No, we don't raise taxes. The municipality can make these decisions on the basis of land prices, which are not essentially from a different era, from the turn of the millennium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U489	Thank you. Fortunately, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure say that we have one chair at a time. A procedural question, Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U490	Thank you, good Chairman. I would actually like to get feedback now from the experience of your long-standing parliamentary work and from your political experience. A good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, claimed that they have never used this option, that if someone from the Reform Party has named their political group, then (someone calls out from the floor: "Don't lie! " Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell. ) it is not given. Or if he didn't say that now, maybe you still have a mirror to hand to him, and it's like he could look in the mirror once. What do you think this is really like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U491	Thank you. No, I don't have any statistics that have mentioned this and who hasn't. My previous comment was that, in this Chamber in the round of negotiations, there has been a mention of people's names by the group and an answer. Who, what kind of fractions I don't have these statistics. Riigikogu speech chair Mikhail Lotman, please. Would you like eight minutes? I'm sorry! A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U492	I understand Jürgen Ligi's embarrassment, and I forgive him for these protesting questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U493	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Our third draft today is a systemic picture of this kind, let's say. We're talking about a green turn here, but what we're admitting right now is a left turn. I understand why the Socialists like this bill, but it's harder for me to understand the Reform Party. The fatter state, the bigger taxes, this ideology that [certain] owners have somehow been punished with taxes, and so on. That is one aspect of the matter that is not satisfying us in any way. But here's one more thing, and a pretty cynical thing that hatched out of this discussion here. The representatives of the Reform Party, I call Jürgen Ligi, so that he can give me an argumentated response, argumentatively and calmly, as he customarily does, completely artificially produce neo-antagonism between local authorities and owners. The egoistic owners somehow bind local governments. We give the municipalities strength and financial resources. But this must be done by the state, not by the residents of local governments. I don't think it's just wrong, it's cynical. When I explained in the first half why we are ideologically opposed to this draft, the other half explains why I am emotionally opposed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U495	Thank you very much. And thank you for the very efficient use of time. Now we are talking on the ground. Toomas Järveoja, please! (In fact, Toomas Järveoja has a speech.) I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Please, Toomas Järveoja, the speech chair of the Riigikogu! I'm sorry! My bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U496	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In this hall, it seems that people are being intimidated by some terrible tax rises. Being a member of the local government council, former mayor and mayor, and also a little homework here and looking at land tax rates, [I know] that even now, municipalities have not actually taken the maximum price. Why, then, do you think that now that the land becomes more expensive, everyone will raise the land tax rate? I would point out, for example, that the tax rate on other land in Jõgeva is 2.5%, but there is 1.8% on arable land, although it could be 2.5%. There are 1.5% and 2.4% in the municipality of Tartu, and 2.5% is allowed. In this sense, it seems to me that there's a terrible scare, but local councils don't really do it. I am sure that if the next election of the council is exactly when the land tax question comes, it will simply not be raised. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U497	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Good fellows! Let us now begin the examination of the amendments to draft 406. There are exactly five amendments in total. Amendment 1, tabled by the lead committee, is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 2, tabled by the lead committee, by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is a position to take full account of. Amendment 3, tabled by the Isamaa Group, the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U498	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. In response to the request of the [group] of the Pro Patria Party, as the chairman and vice-chairman of the group are not present at the moment, and they also have only one vice-chairman, which might need to be reviewed, I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U499	Okay, thanks. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission being disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U500	With the result of 10 votes to 46, the proposal has not been supported by an abstention. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined all the amendments. Thank you for your cooperation. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 406 be stopped, while we have proposed that the second reading of draft 406 be discontinued. It has come from the Isamaa Group and we will begin to prepare for this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Isamaa Group, the content of which is to interrupt the second reading of draft 406. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U501	With the result of 7, against 48, the proposal has not been supported by any abstentions. The second reading of Bill 406 is closed and the seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U502	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the second reading of the International Sanctions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Draft Law amending the Law on the Flag and Ship Registers Act 492. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chair of the Finance Committee, Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U503	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently in the middle of a second reading of Bill 492. This is a draft law amending the International Sanctions Act and the Ship Flag Law and the Ship Registers Act. The draft aims to clarify and clarify the role of the person with the obligation to impose an international sanction. A comprehensive description of the risk mitigation and risk management system of the international sanction is included in the law alongside the current general code of conduct. A precise system of risk management and risk management will help a person with a special obligation to identify subjects of financial sanctions, apply financial sanctions, prevent violations of financial sanctions and avoid circumvention of financial sanctions. The aim is to apply due diligence measures to international sanctions similar to those laid down in the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act, taking into account the risks inherent in the Financial Section. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting the proposals. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft on 24 January and decided unanimously to support the adoption of the draft as a law. The Finance Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 8 February, attended by Nele Grünberg, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union Law Bureau, and Sören Meius, Adviser to the Financial Information Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. On a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Commission made four amendments to the draft. They were consensual. These were quite technical, the last, the fourth specified the date of entry into force of the draft law. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to place it on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 23 February. The decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U504	Thank you. There's a question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U505	Good manager! I need to make sure my voice is strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U506	Yes, please leave Peeter Ernits a chance to ask. I understand the bench neighbors are having a serious conversation there. Please, Peter Ernits, we very much await your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U507	I have a question. Any word at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U508	Very well!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U509	The question is, is this bill so that the explorers of Moneyval... [Is it] made in fear of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U510	Unfortunately, I do not see the questioner, because Mr Reinsalu is currently hiding [don't]. Okay. Was that a question? This is one of several drafts that have recently passed through the Commission in order to mitigate the risks associated with money laundering in Estonia. In that sense, it's probably not a coincidence. But this bill is rather technical compared to, for example, the next one that we have on the agenda. This does not have a major impact on market participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U511	Thank you, good waitress. At the moment, there are no more questions for you, so you do not need to be in the Riigikogu's chair anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U512	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U513	Please! Now, everybody has a chance. As our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provide, everyone can speak at second reading, not only the representatives of the political groups are here. Please! Thank you. I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. 492 SE.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U514	Good manager! There's been some confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U515	Is everything okay now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U516	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U517	Thank God! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U518	Yeah. It was January 26th. The night was near, and, if you remember, suddenly the Foreign Minister Liimets stood here in my place, like a revelation. He introduced us to this bill. I remember that well. There were quite a lot of questioners, but, frankly, it was very difficult to understand the answers of the Foreign Minister [hearing]. I asked him at first, saying that the esteemed Foreign Minister, it is a pleasure to see you at night if Russia is attacking Ukraine. Well, look, if the Foreign Minister shows up like a revelation at one point, at such a critical moment, there's no way to stop asking. Well, there were other questioners. But as a diplomat experienced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, he slipped by. As you know, today was supposed to start, but... He's a good man. Yesterday after the debate, he drove to America, so the diplomat thing. But he introduced us to the bill. As I said, I did not understand what was going on, not to mention the clear Estonian language. What did we ask? My colleague Rene Kokk asked and Leo Kunnas asked several times about sanctions, but the answers were such that we cannot tell you, we cannot speculate, it is Russia's mystery how we will be answered in this case. Stenograms can be viewed by anyone. I was then familiar with what was said in the committee. Well, there was silence. Only a few ambassadors were interested, again there was Rene Chef and colleague Reitelmann asked. By the way, Mr Reitelmann asked directly whether [the law] would actually be adopted in the fear of Moneyval's reviewers. And it turned out to be true. What is it? In fact, it is that it could have been said in a clear Estonian language that it is the fight against money laundering and terrorism and, above all, the fear that the Moneyval delegation will be here in March to see how we are. We've been a money laundering country. Do you remember what five years ago was like, what kind of money-laundering-Amazona flowed through here? If you remember, those money laundering things were still in 1994. There was nothing smart about this in Estonian legislation. And in 1998, it wasn't criminally punishable. I read Sulev Vedler's book 'Washed Millions' and it says that 99% of taxes were paid electronically in 2008, but Estonia was one of the largest customers of 500 euros at the same time. In brackets: they fit better in the suitcase. At the same time, 574 million were transported across the border. That's what Sulev says in Vedler's book. I don't know if that was the case, but in any case, he's counted those [millions]. So about that, we're...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U519	Good waitress, I'm gonna have to cut you off for a minute. I'm so sorry. Let's make a nice time, too, so you don't get lost for a second. But there may have been a big problem, let's see what happens. Raivo Tamm, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U520	I hear the gentleman is talking about money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing. That's the next point we still have. Right now, we're talking about the flagship of the ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U521	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U522	Good waitress, one moment, I have to answer the procedural question myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U523	I thought we were talking about money laundering, which is the next point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U524	I tell you the truth, Peeter Ernitsa has a great experience in the Riigikogu, so here these ends can eventually be tied together. So, Mr. Ernits, please! You have 40 seconds left free, plus three more minutes, I'll remind you, three more minutes. So please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U525	Yeah. That's a good point. But it is [is] 492 SE second [reading], international sanction law and ship flag law and so on. So that's a pretty good point. I'm talking about what I'm talking about. We're talking about ships, but [talk] is exactly what I was talking about. Really, then, what can be summed up? The headquarters of this Moneyval delegation is in Strasbourg, I have found out, and its main name is Igor Nebõvaev. And then what do you say? There will be no war today. Foreign Minister Liimets will return to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U526	Now you have the time [full]. You can take extra time if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U527	No, I'm sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U528	Got it. But then the time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U529	Yeah. And Moneyval will be here after March 15th, because the law is in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U530	Got it. Thank you. That time went wrong when we gave Mr Raivo Tammele a procedural question. Now, as I said earlier, please, second reading, I am still waiting for the wishes to be spoken. We do not know at the moment that, for example, a member of the Government of the Republic or the Chancellor of Justice would like to speak, such information has not come. Got it. I'm closing the negotiations, and now it's over. We will now examine the amendments to draft 492. A total of four amendments have been received. All amendments have been tabled by the lead committee to take full account of the position. Amendment 1, Amendment 2, Amendment 3, Amendment 4. Thank you. With this, we have examined the amendments. The commission's [proposal] is to conclude the second reading of Bill 492. The second reading is closed and the eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U531	Let's move on to item nine. This is the second reading of draft law 507 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, we ask for a chair of speech in the Riigikogu, no one other than Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U532	Thank you very much. The objective of the draft 507 is to mitigate the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in the field of virtual currencies. The draft intends to strengthen the competence of the FIU in the authorisation and supervision of virtual currency services and to lay down requirements in line with the international standard for providers of virtual currency services. By the deadline for tabling amendments, the Isamaa Group tabled two amendments and Ruuben Kaalep 594 amendments. The Commission forwarded the draft opinion to 25 stakeholders, market participants and bodies. A meeting with stakeholders took place on 25 January. This was meaningful and quite a number of proposals have been reflected in the Commission's amendments. Following the discussion, the Ministry of Finance also submitted nine proposals for amending the draft to the Commission. In addition, a large table was drawn up showing the [answers] to the questions raised by stakeholders in their submissions. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at two other meetings: 8 and 14 February. The Commission then made 11 changes in total, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and on the basis of stakeholders' proposals. The most important changes are as follows: The Commission considered it necessary to establish legal clarity that the project's scope does not include software developers and virtual currency issuers, but goes to those offering virtual currency-related financial services. These are Amendments 1 and 2. Amendment 4 concerns the obligation to monitor and analyse transactions in real time. While it was initially envisaged that both trading partners would have to have this competence, only the originator of the transaction has been retained in the latter version. The seventh amendment reduced the planned capital requirement for the provider of virtual currency services. The eighth amendment concerned auditing. Amendment 10 and the establishment of a temporary supervisory fee system are excluded from the cap on the raising of money Amendment 607 refers to the waiver of state fees in the event of a change in the place of business within Estonia. Amendment 15 postpones the deadline for the entry into force and implementation of the draft by one month in order to allow market participants a little more time to adapt to the new rules. The Commission also supported one amendment by the Isamaa Group, which confirms the rules for the one-off submission of the annual report to the State, which is Amendment 5. In essence, the Commission took account of Ruuben Kaalepi's proposal No 11 and partly took into account proposal No 16 of the Isamaa Group. Ruuben Kaalep withdrew the proposals No 17 to 606. He introduced them in the Commission, but decided not to move on with them. The proposal of the Committee on Finance is to conclude the second reading of the draft. When the second reading is closed, the draft shall be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 23 February. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U533	Thank you, good waitress. As it has become a tradition, the first questioner is Peter Ernits. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U534	Good manager! There are many suggestions for improvement here, and I would like to ask whether you have discussed all the suggestions for improvement and why you want to disregard Amendment 428 when it says that the destination is Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U535	Thank you. Amendments No 17 to 606 were at the Commission's hearing, in particular concerning bus stops. As there were many, well-different bus stops, the Commission offered the proposer the opportunity to choose bus stops closer to their heart and to talk about them within three minutes. He focused primarily on the Otepää bus stops and we simply did not get to Pärnu because the prescribed three minutes ran out. And today we are not discussing this at all because Reuben Kaalep has unfortunately withdrawn these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U536	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U537	Yeah, thanks a lot! Was it also in the debate in the Commission that a considerable number of stops have not been made? What could have been the reason? And as a forest man, I am still very touched by the fact that Järvselja, which celebrated the centenary of this year's anniversary, is located there - the heart of our academic forestry, Järvselja's Study and Experimental Forest, has not been reflected. Was there any question as to why forestry is again discriminated against and [why] part of it is, like, left out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U538	Thank you. I would like to remind you that every member of the Riigikogu, without a doubt, will have the opportunity to table amendments. Just Ruuben Kaalep was in a much more active social position. But since he made these suggestions, he chose what bus stops he wanted to talk about. Some bus stops had even been mentioned several times. I can't tell you why they're left out. But I see that Reuben has already taken the queue for negotiations, maybe he can reflect it in his speech. I'm afraid I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U539	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Thank you very much. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Reuben Kaalepi. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U540	Dear Riigikogu! As with any draft, we have to ask here: in whose interest has this draft been drawn up, who will win, and who will lose it? Will the people of Estonia, the state of Estonia, our citizens, entrepreneurs win or lose? The Ministry of Finance has lied about all these questions, shattered and disturbed the tracks. It is said that this bill only concerns crypto miners and investors. It's like it's some extremely dangerous area where only criminals, terrorists, money launderers, all those who have something to hide and want to hurt us. This is what the title of the draft refers to: the "Law on Combating Money and Terrorist Financing." A very ugly picture has been painted. Moreover, it is said that evil uncles from Moneyval will immediately come and if Estonia does not accept this bill on the right date, then Estonia will fall into the grey zone, and this must have been a disaster for our entire country and for our need and future. Look, this bill doesn't just concern crypto miners and investors. This concerns every citizen who wants to transfer money without being controlled by banks. This concerns honest entrepreneurs who are active in a growing popular market that establishes their right to live. This concerns creative and innovative developers who develop platforms through which trading can become easier, more private and more respectful for civil liberties for all of us in the future. This concerns those people whose work brings wealth to Estonia and who move Estonia's life forward. Once upon a time, the Reform Party claimed that it was fighting for these people. He fights for entrepreneurship, innovation and the free market. However, this bill, presented by the Ministry of Finance, led by the Reform Party, is the opposite. It aimed at restricting entrepreneurship, preventing innovation and closing the free market. I ask you again, who's the best interest in this? This is in the interests of the global financial cartel, threatened by the introduction of alternative currencies instead of the euro, the dollar, the yuan and all the other currencies that are part of the failed system. The global debt-based monetary system is at risk because people can make remittances that do not go through banks that are not controlled by private banks or central banks. This financial cartel hates that people have freedom, that their schemes are seen through, and that healthy nations are striving for freedom, one of which is the alternative currencies. Again, I'm not just talking about kryptonian. What is this system that is in danger? It is something far more ominous, more insidious than the virtual currencies that are now being regulated. Private banks have an absurd right to issue money through borrowing, and this occurs with a single click on the debtor's bank account. Since the gold standard was abolished, commercial banks are required to provide only a small part of the loans to be issued with assets actually in existence as minimum reserves. It has created a bubble of expanding credit money, and the debtor has to produce it back with real money. Interest is added to it. And since lending private bank money to a producer is the only way to obtain credit for large additional investments in most countries, it directly increases the prices of consumer goods and encourages ecologically unsustainable overproduction. The debt-based monetary system is inevitably accompanied by inflation and a constantly growing gap between rich and poor incomes. Fear of hyperinflation forces the entire economy of the planet, which is limited by resources, to grow indefinitely, while even the smallest drop in global output does not come from the income of the financial sector. This comes at the expense of the income of the poorer population. The bubble created by private banks will be covered up by the central bank. Central banks can print more money and cover old debts with new money. The other debtors cannot do so. The world has more financial assets created with credit money than the value of the entire planet's movable and immovable assets. And that is the nature and outcome of the debt-based monetary system. The world's debt has never been as high as it is now. Every country that cares about its own people, its own economy, its future should seek alternatives to this system. Unfortunately, most countries in the world meet the demands of the global financial cartel without dispute. Just as we have seen on this bill. The fight against this financial cartel has therefore been left to the very right-wing conspiracy theorists. Fortunately, however, compared to the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has had some common sense, and on some points the Committee on Monetary Affairs has taken the side of extreme right-wing conspiracy theorists. For example, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed to exclude from the draft highly disproportionate and unjustified supervisory charges, the sole purpose of which was to limit economic activity. At the same time, however, the draft raises the corporate equity requirement from the current EUR 20000 to EUR 100000. Let's think about it. That means eating small businesses out of the market. Why should the financial market be limited to those companies that are able to generate EUR 100000 of equity capital? Why should these opportunities remain only for large, often foreign companies? Where is this support for start-ups, start-ups, which the government has made big words about? Big and double-faced! Dear Riigikogu! The ultimatum of the government to link this draft to a vote of confidence does not in fact increase trust between the Riigikogu and the government. On the contrary, it reaffirms that the draft has been prepared in a hasty and unthinkable manner. But these are questions that cannot be solved in haste. Let's take some time, let's think about it! Ladies and gentlemen, fate will spare you the obstruction today, but I would ask you to support the amendments in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U541	Thank you. Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments to draft 507. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 5, from the Fatherland Group, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 6 has been tabled by Mr Kaalep, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U542	Thank you. I ask for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U543	Thank you. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I'm sorry! Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U544	Thank you, Mr President. But what are we gonna do about the clock? The trial is working time, and we have to be here. There's no need to invite anyone else here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U545	Thank you. After you, Kalle, again you were upset, why didn't there be two minutes of that watch? So let's start the bell. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the sixth amendment tabled by Mr Kaalep, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U546	With a result of 11 votes against and 44, the proposal has not been supported by any abstentions. Amendment 7, from the lead committee. Amendment 8, from the lead committee. Amendment 9, Reuben Kaleipt, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U547	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U548	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Let's do another experiment. Good colleagues, can we go to the vote? You're asking for a break? I shall put to the vote the position of the commission on Amendment 9, tabled by Mr Kaalep, not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U549	With the result of 12 votes to 44, the proposal has not been supported by any abstentions. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by Mr Kaalep, position of the commission: to take account of the substance, extension: see Amendment 10. Amendment 12, sorry, no 11, we are at the top of Amendment 11. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U550	No, I've already come to the next one.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U551	You're too fast. The manager's not that fast, I'm sorry. I'm trying to get along with your pace. Amendment 12, tabled by Ruuben Kaalep, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U552	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U553	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 12 tabled by Mr Kaalep. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-16_U554	With the result of 10 votes to 44, the proposal has not been supported by any abstentions. Amendment 13 in favour of the commission. Amendment 14, in favour of the commission. Amendment 15 in favour of the commission. Amendment 16, in favour of the Fatherland Group, position of the commission: to take part in the calculation, extension: see Amendment 607. So, now a few individual amendments are missing at the moment. Let's move on from here. Amendment 607 in favour of the commission. With this, we have examined the amendments. Thank you for that. The 607 amendments have been examined. Now, the position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 507. That concludes the second reading of draft 507 and the ninth item is closed. Dear colleagues, we are not going to the next item because it is not. So the hearing is closed. Have a safe journey home! Thank you.
