ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Tuesday session of the 14th working week of the VII plenary session. As always, it is possible to deliver drafts or enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U2	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, a draft proposal to align the basics of climate policy up to 2050 with the [development] strategy "Estonia 2035" and also with the climate neutrality objective agreed at European Union level by 2050. The members of the committee do the work which is to be done by the Riigikogu, and this is not a cosmetic correction, but a pretty important change. While the current 80% emission reduction target is at the core of climate policy, we are now formulating the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U3	There are no more requests for [transfer]. Further processing of this one draft shall be decided by the Bureau in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. All right, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U4	76 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a small agenda detail to pass on. Namely, on today's fifth item, Raimond Kaljulaid will make a presentation instead of Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U5	We are going to the review of today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the amendment of the Police and Border Guard Act and on the application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in the field of return. President of the Constitutional Committee, Toomas Kivimägi, please. Please! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U6	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this long and complex draft title at its meeting on Tuesday, 3 May 2022. In addition to the members of the committee, Janek Mägi, Head of the Border and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ele Russak, Adviser to the same department, and Jarmo Lilium, Legal Adviser, participated. No amendments to the draft came from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups, but the Ministry of the Interior made two proposals, which I will introduce later, and they were finalised as an amendment to the committee. There was a discussion on two issues. Firstly, Paul Puustusmaa pointed out and wished to clarify that if this draft states that the area of application of the prohibition of entry is limited to the territory of Estonia, it is not surprising at all that this question came from Paul, then what exactly does it mean. Ele Russak explained that the area where Estonia has jurisdiction is restricted under Estonian territory. Perhaps the same area today where Estonian law applies. And a second round of questions. Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe raised that today, it is not rare for people to change names and citizenship and, oh, madman, sometimes even gender. How, then, can it be established that this is, for example, a person who has been refused entry? In addition, Ele Russak replied that biometric data, or fingerprints, would be included in the Schengen Information System. It is not possible to amend them in the light of the above three considerations. Theoretically, perhaps not excluded, but [doing this] would probably be significantly more complicated. So there really is no problem. I now present the two amendments tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this draft. The first amendment. The original version of the draft did not deal with the suspension of the Schengen entry ban as such, which the regulation actually provides for and allows. This provision has been introduced in order to suspend entry in certain cases. Specific example: if someone is tried and physically present, while being refused entry, then the refusal of entry will be suspended and the data will be temporarily deleted in the Schengen Information System. This provision is included in Amendment 1, as well as the possibility of implementing it. The second [amendment] concerns the date of entry into force of alerts, which are the main content of the draft. Alerts are currently in place in the Schengen Information System, but this section is now being expanded. Amendment 2 specifies when the part of alerts enters into force. It is not yet known when it will enter into force as it relates to a decision of the European Commission. The European Commission's decision in this regard is a prerequisite for this provision to enter into force in our law as well. So two amendments. Let's go to procedural decisions. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 May 2022 (the decision was consensual), secondly, that the second reading should be closed (the decision was also consensual), and thirdly, when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 18 May 2022 (the decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U7	You have at least one question, Peter Ernits asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! This is another Ukrainian draft. I read here that, by far, the people to whom the letter of departure is issued are Ukrainians. They were overwhelmingly present in 2018, 2019 and 2020. In 2020 [Ukrainians] were 119 Russians, 58 Moldovans, 56 Georgians. But there are no data available for 2021. And I ask: do I get it right that this is another Ukrainian bill that you are going to come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U9	Thank you, very respectable questioner. No, this is definitely not the Ukrainian draft. Once again, this is a European Commission regulation that is directly applicable. This Regulation has been supplemented with regard to the extension of the alert system. For example, if one or the other country has already taken a return decision, then it must also be entered as an alert into the Schengen Information System and then, for example, Estonia will no longer have to transpose this decision if this person has come to Estonia in the meantime. We do not have to make a return decision separately. So in this sense, good Peeter Ernits, it is certainly not related to the Ukrainian war refugees, but these examples are given rather because the question of how great this problem in Estonia is is that a letter of departure is being made, but in fact they do not leave and must be enforced [sent out]. The conclusion is that this is not a problem in Estonia and the vast majority, including Ukrainians, will leave voluntarily. Those to whom a letter of departure has to be made are 15 to 20 people in the order of magnitude, no more. In fact, they are quite law-abiding and it is not a problem in Estonia that the letter of departure has been made, but they do not leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U10	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U11	Good manager! I also asked how many [deleted] Ukrainians there were in 2021. But the main thing that I want to ask is that it's not a question, or is it still a question that you've ever spoken to Mart Võrguship? The explanatory memorandum contains: the detention centre in Rae rural municipality of Tallinn. Does the municipality of Rae belong to the city of Tallinn? Have you asked Mart Võrguship if he has ever been the Mayor of Tallinn as Rae's district manager? The explanatory memorandum states: "The detention centre in Rae, Tallinn, allows the maximum number of 123 outgoings to be accommodated [... ]'.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U12	Thank you, dear questioner. Point one, from the beginning: I don't have any data for 2021. Probably not yet. At the moment that [the draft] was in the Commission, we asked, I myself wished the Ministry to provide us with an overview of the actual situation. That's what we got, but there's no data for 2021. I speak to Mr. Mart Võrguship almost every day, but on the subject you pointed out, I have not really spoken. I think this resource, it's got to be a reserve anyway. We never know. Things could get worse. Let us say, the clear aim of this draft is to have a better overview of all those people who have been refused entry or who have been subject to a return decision. This will obviously significantly improve security, security, public order, above all, with regard to third-country people who would like or try to come here illegally. Once again, this is still an upgrade to the information system, which is why we have this data. For example, if Hungary has taken a return decision or a expulsion decision against someone, then it will be transferred to the Schengen Information System and if this person has come to Estonia, then we will be able to send him out. I dare say again, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no problems in Estonia that people who do not have the right to stay in Estonia, who have been subject to a return decision do not comply with this. These are very few [cases] which are subject to enforcement. This is not a problem today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U13	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U14	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In theory, let's try to think this way: an Afghan interpreter wants to come to Estonia, but now, for example, a European Member State, well, who is such a great friend of Russia, for example, France, says that such an interpreter is not needed, and puts the ban on, hops, cannot. But we do. We also know how some Member States put up Interpol's name and others took away. How can such situations be ruled out? Now this system is automatic, but as a surprise, perhaps the people we need may have been victimized. How can we protect them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U15	Thank you, dear questioner. We have actually joined, Estonia has joined the Schengen Information System. In this sense, the decisions taken by the Member States will extend to us as well. In certain cases, of course, one or the other country can only refuse entry to its own country. It does not always have to be a refusal to enter the Schengen Information System. Estonia, or France, for example, if a person is not suitable for him or her, only France can be refused entry. So it does not always have to be across the Schengen Information System, i.e. extend to all these countries, but each country can also make a permanent entry ban on its territory. So in that sense, like... But the other side is, of course, because we are part of the Schengen Information System, we use this information, we have a common goal of keeping this area secure, then in this sense, I think we will rather win over and over again by extending these decisions to other Member States. Rather, the risk is that if we don't want to see anyone else, but someone else wants to see and our word doesn't pay anything, then inappropriate people come in here that we don't want to see here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U16	Peter Ernits, what's a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U17	Good manager! The procedural question: does it make any sense, Mr President, to ask the draft when the waitress talks about any kind of talk? I asked if the municipality of Rae belonged to the city of Tallinn, but the esteemed waitress said everything else, a round story, but she did not answer the specific question. Does it make any sense to ask the waitress questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U18	Dear colleague, it is your decision whether or not you are asking a question. Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking about the law's entry into force. Well, there is indeed a long time about this in the second amendment. This is a non-traditional method of enforcement which does not have a specific date. It has also been said that the Ministry of the Interior organises the notification of the State Gazette. But what's this thing finally gonna look like in the State Gazette? If I wanted to see if it had entered into force, I should also start looking every time for this decision of the European Union to be made or not. What does this thing physically look like in the Official Journal if it's not on the date?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U20	Thank you, very respectable questioner. Indeed, it is true that the regulations of the European Union are directly applicable. In the sense that this does not need to be confirmed by national law, except for some of the differences that we are going to do with this draft. So they're still directly applicable and enter into force according to their own rules. And in that sense, it is certainly important to inform. This draft is not at all exceptional in terms of entry into force when we are talking about regulations of the European Union in general. This provision, which we are talking about when part of the alert regulation will enter into force, is indeed a matter of dependence on when the European Commission will take a decision to that effect. It is assumed that he will do so in June, but, of course, I cannot confirm whether this is the case or not. So, of course, information here is very important for people to know. At the same time, let's say it doesn't really concern us local people very much. I say once again that this draft concerns the creation of alerts on third-country nationals, so it is rather a question of how they will find out about it. But it's not so much our problem. Perhaps once again, in fact, this provision, when we are also talking about an alert, does not concern Estonian citizens or people living in an Estonian country, but relates to third [country] persons. As for Mr. Peter Ernitsa, he left, unfortunately, but I remember that when a good friend once asked a very well-known Estonian person what his name was, that person said [his] first name. And then he asked her, but what her last name is.. it was really a very well-known Estonian person, so she replied that [this person] should know it. If Mr. Peeter Ernits wants to know whether Rae Parish is part of Tallinn or not, I will say no to his satisfaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U21	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U22	Good manager! Honourable waitress! I will look at the explanatory memorandum that on 25 April the Ministry of the Interior made proposals for the draft. Two amendments have reached this draft. And then I have a question: why don't you tell me more about the proposals made by the Home Office? Is it just the two that have reached the bill? And the two should be asked if the initiator really didn't know how to put them in the bill before. In essence, these are both improvements that should have been known as early as January when this draft was prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U23	Thank you, dear questioner. There were no more proposals from the Ministry of the Interior than the two which were formalised as amendments by the Commission. I'll see if I can find it in the protocol. They were actually voted. [[Browse papers.]] The first amendment was consensual support; all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported Amendment 1. And exactly the same was true of Amendment 2. I think that any political group could still trust its authorised representative to one committee or another, they have approved it. Now [to be commented] on this substantive remark, they are actually of a editorial nature. Indeed, two points were divided here; he used to be at one point. Yes, there was an unsubstantiated suspension, which I pointed out [for example] that, in certain cases, it could stop an alert entered in the Schengen Information System. I gave an example of the trial, so that there would be an idea of what this leader would be like. It can always be said that it could have been before, but now you want to overdramatise every amendment that the Commission has made. Do not underestimate the Commission's right to propose amendments. It's in the same yellow book. And the second [amendment] is purely technical, it is a clarification of the entry into force. This is a little bit my initiation, too, since initially [impressed] that the entry into force of [the draft] will also result in the entry into force of this provision. However, the alerts on the Schengen Information System already exist, the issue is only the clarification of when alerts are entered into the Schengen Information System, if, for example, a return decision has been issued. That's the only part. The second amendment is purely clarification, technical clarification, so that it is clear and clear when it will enter into force. In the first case, yes, you can discuss a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U24	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U25	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, most of these repeat offenders of the Piirissaare regime are systemic, like the censuser, that you throw out the window, coming out the chimney, right, all the time. Is it possible to impose any additional sanctions on repeat offenders? I will specify: for example, a repeat visa infringer is also a paedophile. Each time the perpetrator does this disgusting act, would chemical castration, for example, be one thing that would come up with it? Let's say, for the third time, he's trying to come back to Europe to do his own disgusting things. Then at least he knows that chemical castration awaits him. Is it possible to impose such compound sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U26	This, a good questioner, is, in my opinion, a fantasy world, a similar approach to us as a democratic country, which I do not think is appropriate. Of course, a completely different story is criminal sanctions for everything you're referring to, and it's quite pertinent. In this case, there is no such independent basis for the application of an entry ban or an exit letter. I think this can be discussed, but we must do it at the level of the European Commission if we want to do it. However, I am just pointing out, if we go back to the content of this draft, there is one very important addition. The Police and Border Guard Board is granted the right to detain an alien for up to 48 hours in order to determine whether an alien is legally or illegally present and to find out where the alien is fleeing. There is no right today; today it is only allowed in an emergency. But now the police, the border guard and the kapo will have an additional right for 48 hours [the citizen will be detained], which will once again increase our security. Otherwise, if there is doubt, there is no stopping, [man] goes away, then look for the wind in the field. This, too, is a very important addition to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U27	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I will specify my first question. I understand, of course, that this was not the issue of direct regulation. And, of course, it's important that someone informs them too. But my question was very practical, especially from recording in the State's Official Journal. Indeed, at one point there is a specific [note]: if I dismantle the State Gazette from any law [from the point of view], I will see when these specific laws, the amendments to the law, have entered into force. But if he has not yet entered into force, is that where the text that has been added to us? I ask specifically, very, very practical question: what will this matter look like in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U29	Thank you, dear questioner. This law enters into force and is generally published in general terms, because there are a number of other provisions also that are not related to... Yeah, the same point on this, indeed, nor can the National Journal change the text that the legislator has approved, it goes exactly as it is here. Indeed, there is now, in the explanatory memorandum and explanation, a reference to the fact that, since the date of entry into force of this provision is unknown today, it is simply the provision in the Official Journal of the State when the European Commission has taken the relevant decision, when the same alert system has entered into force in the case of return decisions, so we really do not know that decision at the moment. If this decision is taken by the European Commission, the notice shall also be given in the Official Journal of the State. But this bill, if it becomes a law, right, and the President announces it, will still be published in the Official Journal of the State in the normal manner, because there are a number of other provisions here too. And when it comes into force, of course, a long and complicated story, but when you read Amendment 2, it is possible to read and understand that it does not actually enter into force in the normal way, but is dependent on the decision of the European Commission. Once this decision has been taken, it will enter into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U30	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U31	Thank you. The story goes on: why is this point being put in here if the European Commission has not been able to make a decision and does not know when this decision will be taken? However, as regards paragraph 1 (9), I ask: "paragraph 14 (2) replaces the words "to leave the country' with the words "to leave the third country'. " How is it guaranteed? We have a border with Russia, but if somewhere else, such as Turkey, is to be expelled, how has it been resolved in the European Union? If Estonia wants to expel someone who is not, say, the [citizen] of the Russian Federation, but is from another third country and [this country] has no [Estonia] border? Are there agreements that a person will be transferred from one country to another, or what is the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U32	Thank you, dear questioner. When we talk about sending someone to a third country, there is a very important change here, too, we do not have to touch too much today, because it was a first-reading issue, so now you can only send them to a third country with the consent of that person. I'm talking about sending him to a third country. As a general rule, they are sent back to their country of nationality or to their country of habitual residence. That's the general rule. A third country can only be sent to a third country with its consent. Previously, this provision was different, but now it can only be done with his consent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U33	Good Commissioner, there are no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U35	I'm opening negotiations. Please! There is no wish for negotiations, let us examine the amendments. We have two amendments, both of which have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and have been fully taken into account. We have also examined the amendments, and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 518. You don't see any other requests, the second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U36	Our second item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Civil Service and Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a chair from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to Marko Storm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Okay, second reading. I will go over what has been discussed in the Commission. I believe everyone is familiar with the content of the bill. In the first reading, it was thoroughly examined why and for what purposes these changes would be introduced. I would pre-emptively add that the officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have sent letters to all the institutions involved on possible amendments in due course. The Supreme Court responded and their assessment was that they do not express an opinion. By 28 April, two substantive amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments. They were from the Isamaa Group and the Ministry of Justice. One technical change was requested. And that was an amendment, which was also supported by Mr Eduard Odines, Member of the Commission. The amendment concerned the deletion of senior civil servants for certain changes. So, but essentially from the amendments of the Fatherland. One of the amendments was the one where the Isamaa Group did not support the introduction of a draft law to allow a person to remain in office without a competition if the employment relationship has already begun in the service. I would like to mention, for example, that a person has left the public service for parental leave, a new competition has been organised, a person has been recruited and, at some point in time, a person who has gone on parental leave says that he or she will not return. A new competition should be carried out under the current law, but the legislator has created the possibility of more flexible arrangements in the form of this draft. It may not be necessary to organise a competition if a person already in office performs his duties, he or she is diligent in his or her work and is fully acceptable to the heads of the institution. This is certainly not a condition for excluding competition, but, as explained at first reading, a little more flexibility is added to the law. As a justification for the proposal by the Isamaa Group, Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe added that they wanted to delete this point in order for people to rotate and new and new people to come to the competition. It is also noted that there must be a competition for public places so that young people start a career in Estonia. Several members of the Commission also expressed their views. The debate was not passionate, was not world-viewed, was completely substantive. However, neither the Ministry nor several members of the Commission supported Mr Kruusimäe's position and the amendment of the Isamaa was not supported. Mr Tappo, Toomas Kivimägi and myself as a member of the Commission, took the floor. The amendment has been rejected. There were 3 people in favour: Kalle Grünthal, Paul Puustusmaa and Tarmo Kruusimäe, and amendment 6 was opposed by Mr Kivimägi, Natalia Malleus, Tõnis Mölder, Eduard Odines, Marko Torm and Ülle Rajasalu. The second amendment concerned that, in the event that a competition has been conducted, I would point out that this was also an amendment by the Isamaa Group, according to the draft, if it turns out that there are several candidates, and the candidates remaining in the second or third place were well worthwhile, and that, after some time, up to 150 days, there will be a need to fill the post again, there is, in fact, an opportunity to take candidates left in employment or employment without organising an additional competition. Once again, in order to make the system more flexible and the competition should not be launched because of the competition. The Fatherland Group did not support this amendment and a vote was taken in committee. Like the previous vote, 3 were in favour and 6 were against. In the case of procedural decisions, it was up to today to propose that the second reading be stopped (there was a consensus here), and so it was. I'm open to questions. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U38	Begin Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you tell me [about] that here Amendment 3 is that 150 calendar days must not have passed since the previous competition and three people, with the exception of the winner, may compete. But there's gotta be a ranking. You've been working in the public sector, too. Do you remember you'd have made a competition where seven people compete and you'd make the ranking one-two-three-four-five-six-seven? I've been working on this system, too, but I don't remember putting us in line. We have chosen the first two, that if the first one quits, then the next one will talk to the second, but [we have not chosen] more. There should also be a second-third-fourth choice, because one is chosen before that. Was there a debate on this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U40	Thanks for the question! This was not discussed in the Commission before the second reading, but was initially discussed in the presentation of the draft. And I myself, good Aivar, also asked the Minister for this question while in practice conducting these competitions at different levels and, indeed, whether it would become mandatory in this case. It will not become mandatory, to draw up this ranking, because it is not in fact in compulsory form. It can be applied like this, but it may not be applied like this. Of course, any form to be reproduced will always be helpful and useful in the event of possible disputes. So maybe it's something that goes into practice as a new norm. At the moment, we don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! Perhaps I do not remember exactly, but remind me whether this draft has been drawn up with the intention of being drafted and whether its conformity with the Constitution or with European Union law has been assessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U43	Thank you for your question. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed this issue, it is a draft act that is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U44	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking about § 1 (9) of the bill. It states that an official may request exemption from service due to redundancy, and then there are a few points below, in which case he may require redundancy. Was there a debate in the Commission that there is now an exception to the Employment Contracts Act? Will the Employment Contracts Act be harmonised in accordance with this principle, or will there be an additional bonus for an official? It's like they're going different ways here, but a lot of people are still working under a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U46	Thank you. The question is very relevant. This issue was also raised at the Commission meeting. Since the Employment Contracts Act provides for this possibility for the contractor, but it was not in the public service so far, we will equalise these opportunities. Usually, what is the reason for the call for redundancy or prayer? It's still compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U47	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U48	Good manager! Good Marko! Going back to this amendment, I have this feeling of hesitation and doubt. This is the perfect opportunity for corruption. You tell your friends and acquaintances that competition for this [place], two seats will be free, but for one I'll make a contest, we'll put you there for another. It is not the Members of the Commission who have an interest in who the second or third is, they have an interest in who the first is. It is also possible to create these Commission queues afterwards. Adding one annex to the Protocol is not a matter of any kind. Was there a debate in the Commission that even proposed this amendment? I think it's pretty risky.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U49	Thank you for your question. In fact, these dangers have always been involved in recruitment and appointment, no matter what paperwork there is. If the head of the institution wants to hire someone, he is likely to employ this person without paper or paper, and these things will then be put in the appropriate form as necessary. But I really see that the draft is sensible, gives more flexibility and is, in fact, very relevant to today's expectations in the management of the organisation. I don't see a ghost here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! I think I heard correctly: you said that when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed some drafts, it is therefore compatible with the Constitution. This means that once the European Union Affairs Commission has discussed something, this draft will automatically be in line with European Union law. Let me get this straight. Is this practice now that, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discusses something, it is therefore compatible with the Constitution and does not have to mention anything anywhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U52	Thank you for your question. I guess I didn't get it right, or at least I didn't make it out like this. The idea was always that when he was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and came from the Ministry, everything would be done by all parties, at least as we know, to have a proper bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U53	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U55	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U56	Thank you. I ask for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind everyone who may have been out of the hall in the meantime that we are discussing amendments to the draft law amending the Law on Public Service and Unemployment Insurance. In the debate, the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland is rejected by the Steering Committee. We need to vote this through. I shall therefore put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the steering committee, has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U58	The proposal was supported by 20 members of the Riigikogu, 42 against, 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the commission and has been taken fully into account. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U59	Let's vote that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U60	Let's vote that too. We just voted. Do you agree that we are going to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote the second amendment... I'm sorry! Mr. Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U61	Honourable President, you've made a mistake. This second amendment is still the Commission's proposal to disregard...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U62	Yeah, I'm sorry! I have comments here left with this... I mean, yes, my mistake. I'm sorry. The second amendment has indeed been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. I'm so sorry. I read it wrong, I got carried away. But Priit Sibul still wants to vote on it, doesn't he? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Sure. Got it. Therefore, the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been rejected, is now put to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U63	The proposal was supported by 20 votes to 42, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. So, and now we come to the third amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Nobody wants to vote on that. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading be stopped, but the President has received a proposal from the chairman of the Isamaa Group: the Isamaa Group proposes that the draft law amending the Public Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, be discontinued. We need to vote this through. I assume we can go to the vote because we have just taken two votes? Nice. I am voting on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Civil Service and the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U64	20 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal to interrupt, 42 against. The proposal was not supported. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U65	Let us move on to our third item today, the first reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, the Emergency Act and the Competition Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Chair, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you today a draft that is initiated directly by Russia's attack on Ukraine. Estonia's gas consumption is still about 80% dependent on Russia at the moment. In a situation where the Russian supply is no longer secure, we must be prepared for the long-term disruption of gas supply. It is also important to ensure that the strategic gas supply has been maintained and that its costs are covered on an ongoing basis. The draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, the Emergency Act and the Competition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has three objectives. Firstly, to ensure regulation for the continuity of the gas system as a result of a long-term gas supply disruption. Secondly, ensure that the costs of managing the strategic gas supply are covered. And thirdly, specify the regulation regarding the use of the LNG terminal. Since the current regulation is sufficient to deal with the short-term supply disruption, the current natural gas law does not regulate activities sufficiently efficiently and in the light of market participants' needs, especially in the event of a long-term interruption of gas supplies. There is also no regulatory approach to covering the costs of managing the strategic gas supply. It is possible to build up reserves under the Emergency Act, but the costs associated with their management must be covered by the state budget according to the current regulations. Although the budget will still cover the savings costs for the first year in view of the situation, the solution is not sustainable to ensure stock management. According to the amendments to the Competition Act which entered into force on 1 January 2022, part of the Competition Authority's budget is financed by supervisory fees. In view of the additional tasks and the need for funding, the competition authority will also be amended in the context of this draft competition law. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U67	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U68	Good manager! Dear Minister, I want a very specific answer to my question. This draft law seeks to circumvent all European Union directives and to give one company full power, the power that cannot be given. We have pushed gas lines, sales and electricity separately, and now Elering is being tried again to jerk off and compete, to give the advantages of state companies to private companies. I just have one question. Who, in particular, did not tell me that the government, but a particular person, had given Rein Vaks the task of doing this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U69	Thank you. As I said, the need for a draft arises directly from three points. This bill certainly does not give anyone any monopoly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U70	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U71	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! We all know what the gas is like today. Time is extremely short. Yeah, the question is, why is this law exactly as it is here, and so on. But I have a very specific question: do we know where and when LNG absorption capacity will be built in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U72	Thank you. There are certainly many places to build LNG's reception capacity in Estonia, but it is the fastest possible to build it on the northern shore of the Paldiski peninsula. The aim is to be ready this autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U73	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Looking at this bill and the explanatory memorandum, often the explanatory memorandum gives a lot of information, unfortunately, this time there is less information. I see that this is the part of the explanatory memorandum that summarises how much was discussed with the various stakeholders, [how much was] public consultations, coordination and so on, it turns out that the draft has been very urgent and essentially not really spoken to the various players on the market. For me, the question is, why didn't you do it and what are the plans for the future? I really see that only balance sheet managers have been discussed and that is all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U75	Thank you. First of all, you rightly said that this draft has been discussed with the balance sheet managers, and this draft, in particular, concerns the balance sheet managers. However, further proposals are certainly awaited before the Minister's regulation is given. As far as I know, businesses have already sent their proposals. I saw one like it yesterday. No doubt we'll examine them all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U76	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U77	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking about the costs involved in ensuring this security of supply. Minister, the draft shows that these costs can be added to the price of the network service, [they can] be included in the network charge, and these costs amount to a total of EUR 30 million. The additional budget that we are in the process also shows that Elering will be given EUR 30 million to acquire a share in the budget of MKM's governing area. How much does Elering's absorption capacity actually cost the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U78	Thank you. First of all, the reception capacity is not 100% related to Elering's costs. Elering's cost is to establish a pipeline connection between the gas network and the quay. Its estimated cost is EUR 4 to 5 million. Now it's 30 million euros. The purpose of this is for us to be able to rent a ship with Finland. I very much hope that this cost for Estonia as a whole is not 30 million, but 10 million, and the initial cost comes from the state budget. In the future, as the ship is essentially a floating terminal, it must be treated as any terminal cost. This will add to the end-user price, just as somebody uses the terminal, right, it will have to be paid for, and consequently it will be added to the gas price in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U79	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U80	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If the floating terminal is said to be rented at a floating terminal, how is it ensured that there will be such a thing as a gas connection to a floating terminal by autumn? How is it guaranteed that the gas connection will reach the floating terminal by autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U81	I understand the question was about the gas connection to the floating terminal, the network? [[The floor shall be specified.]] According to this bill, it is exactly Elering's duty to ensure this gas connection to the quay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U82	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We can read in the explanatory memorandum that the cost of managing the gas supply is about 0.8 euros, or 80 cents per megawatt-hour. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of how that calculation came after all. Is this $4 million already agreed with Elering, or where did this $4 million come from? The rest is math, of course, but how did you get that $4 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U84	Thank you. The gas supply is not directly dealt with by Elering, but is dealt with by the Estonian Stock Centre, its acquisition. As with fuel supply, the Estonian Stock Centre will deal with gas supply in the future. EUR 4 million is due to the fact that it is in the order of 1 sharp storage cost in the Inčukalns storage facility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U85	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U86	Thank you. Good minister! In the press, this terminal issue has been written here for some time in the last month or two, and neither have I fully understood why the Ministry behaves the way it behaves. Here's the question. When this gas crisis, this bloody gas, this war, this increase in energy prices came, the government did not do much, but the private sector immediately began to think, to deliver, to see how it would be possible to build this terminal. Now private investors have come quite far, and suddenly the government is starting to do the same thing. It's kind of weird. Why are we trying to pull private investors out of the carpet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U87	Thank you. No, on the contrary, we would rather support private investors in this process. One of the reasons is that with this bill, we are giving Elering the responsibility to establish a pipeline connection to the quay they are building. We are certainly not doing the same thing as the private sector. The private sector has been working on this project for quite a long, many years, it has certainly not come to their table in the last year or in the light of this energy crisis or the Ukrainian crisis. It is just that this issue has now become topical for them too. And this issue has also become topical for the country. Indeed, if the terminal had been created in Estonia years ago, we would not, of course, discuss it today. But I certainly do not agree with you that the state is trying to do the same thing. On the contrary, we are doing everything we can to enable the private sector to create its absorption capacity. And once again, we're also giving Elering an obligation here to connect the set-up reception capability to our gas grid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U88	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U89	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, Elering is building this pier. I don't know what's left with Alexela. But my question is, why is Alexela's pig face so thick lately, our hall here too, some colleagues from the Fatherland and the Snotlout. And I'm reading here that Alexela's company is already inside to tilt the E.R.R. poll, saying come help, you gotta take off Alexela's dead end. Very interesting such [the situation] is called upon to influence the situation. Why does Alexela and her henchmen have such a pork chop at this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U90	Thank you. First of all, Elering would make sure that this quay isn't being built today. The construction of the quay is on Alexela with Infortar. Now, why, in a way or another, would anyone comment on the progress of negotiations in the press, I think that this could and should be asked by them themselves. The process has been dynamic. On the other hand, the private sector must also be understood; they are trying to maximise their profitability.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U91	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U92	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I think we should discuss it. I think that Peter Ernits's question was very well placed, perhaps language was not the most correct one. But I think the question is how much public capitalism, how much private initiative, what is really efficiency and so on. I think that would be the questions we should have on the table. But my question to you is more specific than that. I have realised that, in itself, in Europe, and we have acted accordingly, say, the owner of the networks and, so to speak, the market makers, they are divorced, they have been done with electricity and gas. Is there no problem at this point if, I understand, the owner of the network, Elering, is actually going to be operating to some extent in the market? Is there no problem here, you do not see any contradictions in this European context?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U93	Thank you. First of all, I can't see, because I don't see how Elering's going to operate in the market. Elering's job is to connect to the dock, that's his job. Yes, in today's situation, Estonian Elering and then a similar Finnish company are those who have taken the initiative. In particular, it is Finland's Elering that has taken the initiative to rent a ship. And it has to be said that they would have done so regardless of whether Elering would have joined the process in Estonia or not. I think it's been more than a month, I think for a month and a half, when the International Energy Agency first came up with whether the Finns would be ready to join our Paldiski project in a way or in another way, to start using it. And the Finns were clear and clear: they buy a floating terminal, rent it. Perhaps this process would have taken place regardless of whether we are with us or not. I think it's only reasonable for us to accompany you in the first stage to hedge risks and hedge prices. But that Elering would certainly not operate on the gas market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U94	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said you did not have time to talk to market participants, but amendments are coming and you have already seen one. It's just that you're here on the floor of Parliament right now, and we're already working on this bill. You're going to have some amendments, but you have nothing to do with them. These proposals should come to Parliament. How reasonable do you think such legislation is that you will not be able to negotiate and plan the draft in a reasonable way? We already know that, at first reading, this bill needs to be improved and carried out in Parliament's committees, which is, of course, the work of Parliament, but still. What was the reason why this was not discussed with the parties to the bill before he got here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U96	Thank you. Well, first of all, as we've been told, all right, it's been talked to the balance sheet managers. Of course, there are more market participants in the gas market than only balance sheet managers. This part, which concerns all other market participants, concerns groups of consumers who are going to be affected by emergency action, i.e. if a switch-off is to take place, should the need arise. But this part is more of a ministerial regulation, so it is governed by a ministerial regulation. And also those calls by market participants that have come are rather linked to the Minister's regulation, and we will certainly review them before granting this regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U97	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U98	Thank you. To my first question, what is it going to cost, you mentioned an amount of EUR 10 million. We operate here, both in this law and in the extra budget law, still with 30 million. Perhaps you could explain again to me and others what this cost is and why this 30 million is still allocated to MKM for this project? And here's the question of allocating money to acquire a stake. Please, could you specify whose participation will be acquired and who or which firm will manage this terminal later?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U99	Thank you. Yeah, I'd love to explain. The company that will be set up to rent this ship will be created by Elering Estonia and a similar network manager in Finland. On two. According to the share of gas consumption in each country, the holding is also divided. Estonia is one fifth in size, and Finland is four fifths. Now, when drawing up this additional budget, it could be assumed that the cost of this vessel would be EUR 50+ million. Sorry, the renter costs 300-400 million euros, the rent is circa 50+ million euros. At that point in time, it was not known exactly how much [the amount] was due to the lack of these ships according to market information, and therefore it was constantly in this growing process. In fact, the ship owners are in a position of strength here. And now, taking one fifth of this EUR 50 million, Estonia is part of 10 million and Finland is part of 40 million. Since we did not know how much this amount would eventually be, this possible expansion of the share capital will be bigger, but it will certainly not be placed there more than is necessary to create this company and rent the ship for the first year. Here comes the 10 [million], or one fifth of the total consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U100	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U101	Thank you. Dear Minister, You guys talked about it, but there are some nuances that need to be clarified. According to the draft, the costs of establishing the capacity to absorb LNG will be included in the network fee paid by Estonian consumers. Has the impact of this network charge on consumers and competition in the market been assessed? That's very important, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U102	Thank you. First of all, when we talk about this part that goes into the network fee, it's basically this pipe connection to the dock. It's part of the network, it's gonna be part of the network. Its cost is in the order of EUR 4 million plus/minus EUR 1 million. It is not possible to say this today with the last amount of detail, but in the order of EUR 4 million. And that's about the same amount of pay, watching our consumption. Well, that depends on how much gas eventually comes through there. If we take that the maximum terminal capacity is 30 terawatts, 1 terawatt is 4 million or 80 cents and if 4 million is divided by 30 terameters, if the terminal is fully operational, then in fact its share in today's gas price is completely marginal. Let us consider that the gas price today is about plus/minus 100 euros. So this is definitely not decisive. As regards the costs of the quay, the investment of the quay and the acquisition of the ship, it is a terminal and it adds to the gas price exactly as it is buying gas or managing gas through any other terminal, there is nothing different about it. In the same way, if we come from LNG Klaipeda terminal, these terminal costs will eventually be reflected in the gas price. Nothing's gonna change about that. Yes, the cost of this pipe, which connects the quays to our core network, will be added, but once again: the more the terminal works, the lower its share of the gas price is and, in fact, it is relatively marginal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U103	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U104	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have not understood what is happening in Estonia. It is very clear that a green turn-around of EUR 14 to 16 billion is needed, and it has always been predicted that most of the money should be put into the private sector. You are now trying to join the country in the sector where private companies have offered [aid]. Why does the state come here to rent a ship at multiple prices? Why does Elering make such a deal? And where do you take the fact that this network fee, when the gas runs through the network in Estonia, will be paid by Finland? There is no such system. The Estonian will pay the online fee, no one else. We do not pay the network fee for gas coming from Inčukalns in Latvia, which is paid by Latvia. You are talking to people here about issues that I do not think are right. I ask: if private entrepreneurs were willing to do all of this, why did the state intervene in this process and want to start selling gas to Estonians much more expensive? It is known that Elering will certainly ask for more times than a private operator.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U105	Thank you. First of all, we begin by saying that Elering certainly does not ask more times than a private operator, because these prices are all regulated prices. No one here can have a chance that he's asking for more than a cost plus a reasonable return. Now, was the entrepreneur ready to do all this himself? No, it wasn't. The process started like a private contractor said, yes, I will, but the state guarantee. That's exactly how the process started. Yes, this process has changed in these two months. I agree with you here. Today is no longer the situation that was two months ago, because all market participants see the world moving irreversibly towards abandoning Russian gas. This process started because there was a risk that Russia would stop the supply of gas and stop them. Today we have come to a point where we all understand clearly that, at one point in time, our network region is giving up consumption of Russian gas and, consequently, market participants have realised that, in fact, this project could be carried out very largely on a market basis. It's changed, it wasn't in the beginning. And once again, to say that we want to do some kind of state capitalism doesn't want to, for God's sakes, don't, for God's sake, don't. If the private sector were to do this on a fully market basis, it would be an ideal option for everyone. Absolutely the perfect option. The ship's price of a ship, we certainly have not purchased more expensive than the private sector would be able to do. And as I said, this ship would have been acquired by the Finnish network manager in any event, whether or not we would have been a part of that ship. Rather, it makes sense for us to be part of a so-called backup-variant.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U106	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U107	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I can see how Alexela and some other private companies are so-called crazy. But my question is that the white ship should come to Bay Bay on November 1. At the same time, there is a quay over 300 metres long on the Pakri peninsula, so that it should not be spent at all 4 to 5 million. But now that it's less than five months until 1 November, you're gonna have to build a 30 × 50 meter pier on the high seas. This wave is very evil there, and I have been told by several captains that this tiny quay, 30 × 50 meters, which will be a kilometer long pipe, and the tanker that will be there, that these accidents are definitely coming in the fall. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U108	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U109	As a minister, aren't you afraid that time is too short and the first disasters...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U110	Mr. Ernits, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U111	Yeah, yeah. Raivo's not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U112	Thank you. First of all, from these meters [from the point], the length of the quay and the length of the tube, I certainly do not dare to discuss with you, because I am certainly not competent to say exactly how long this tube is to the sofa and how long exactly this quay is. As far as I know, these numbers are a little different. But once again, I'm certainly not going to discuss it here. As far as I know, this bay is one of the best places to create this dock and its reception capacity. As for the southern part of Paldiski, let's say, the existing ports in Paldiski, where there is a quay, and we actually have a quay in Muuga, the places where the ship could come, the floating terminals, are not only in Paldiski, there are also in other places in Estonia. But in all these places, as a rule, there are two mistakes. One is that there is no pipe connection. What is good about this project in Paldiski, on the north bank, is that there has been all preliminary research and can go immediately to the building permit process and from there to the construction process. In all other cases, all studies, all processes from scratch must be started. And the other, which is definitely a problem with the Northern Port of Paldiski, is that there is no guaranteed safety radius. This terminal needs a safety radius. As you said yourself, there may be an accident. Consequently, safety must be ensured, but this is not guaranteed in the case of the Northern Port. The other would be guaranteed, but Muuga would require a significantly longer pipe construction. Once again: all the pre-activity studies, basic research, and so on, everything is not done here, therefore this berth is the fastest feasible place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U113	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You indicated that the studies had been carried out. I saw that at least at some point the ornithologists expressed their concern. I don't know what their problem was. Is it unsolved, or can't it be solved? But I actually have a question about that. You indicated that Elering would not come to the market, you shook your head earlier than the [about] question was. I have a question. Maybe you could help me out a little bit. The additional budget has resources for various things. Why don't you describe exactly what the sums are for? There's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's still money. Why don't you name the sums and their destination if you can?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U115	Thank you. First of all, regarding the concerns of ornithologists, this is because Alexela initially had a plan to establish a quay for LNG, a pipeline link to the mainland. The pipe would have been LNG and the painting would have been stationary in LNG gasification capacity. Maybe the ship that comes to that dock will stop there for a while and then he'll leave. Now, in the case of a floating terminal, the ship comes to the berth and that regasification, or FSRU, is standing there permanently. The question for ornithologists is whether anything will change significantly because the ship is standing not temporarily but permanently at the quay. It's an ornithologist's concern, but I think it's solvable. Now, as far as the budget is concerned, yes, indeed, there are several amounts. First, there are 150 million gas supplies. 150 million for the reason that today's price is 100. Probably, I very much hope that not all of this 150 will be used to buy 1 sharp, but 150 is just the idea that today's gas price will move from EUR 100 to EUR 200. This range is large and therefore 150. But I really hope that the number that will eventually be needed is smaller. Then there are the operators' fees, i.e. the purchase process, 20 million and 30 million for Elering precisely to acquire this ship's capabilities. But as I explained before, here, too, is the assumption, it is possible that it will take 10 million and not all of these funds will be used. That's what's connected to gas in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U116	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm gonna look into some back-up payments. Indeed, it is done and it is EUR 0.8 per megawatt-hour. However, we have heard that if everything does not go exactly as planned and we do not get certain connections, then, of course, private individuals will be guaranteed gas, it is as if industry should look for themselves. Now, if this five becomes three, is this going to change to 0.8, or is this going to be a fix? Or if at some point we come up with some kind of consumption and we consume 6 megawatts, will the amount be reduced? Is it just next year or is it constantly? How's that gonna be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U118	Thank you. This amount does not change in itself because it is linked to the one gas supply that the state is buying. If we buy more gas supplies, right, then we have an increase in savings taxes, but also the amount of gas to which the savings payments are distributed increases, right? So this 0.8 really shouldn't change unless the deposit fee changes. This 0.8 is rather linked to the deposit fee and 1 to the sharpener. If, I don't know, the state decides that we buy 2 sharps reserves, then the deposit fee is twice as high as EUR 8 million, but that EUR 8 million must be divided into two sharps-hours. [[There's a comment in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U119	Let's try to keep the question format.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U120	Yeah, sorry, that's divided by all that consumption. Today we see no need to buy more than 1 sharp. How would we act, let's say, what's Plan B for if...? Plan B must be dealt with in any case. Even if the construction of the quay begins, we can't really be sure that it's finished until it's finished. Even during construction, unexpected circumstances may occur, whatever. First of all, we have a supply of protected consumers, which Elering has purchased, because of its obligations, it already has to own it. In addition, the Estonian state acquires 1 sharp gas. As a rule, Estonian heat companies, who are also gas users, use very much chipping wood, but use gas to cover the peak load. As a rule, hot companies are able to use liquid heating fuels, whether it is oil shale oil or some other liquid heating. Maybe it's actually covered with another razor. If we take into account that our winter consumption is in the order of 3 to 3 to 3,5 terawatts, then in fact we already have [the situation] solutions covered with two sharps. And indeed, if anyone has to be turned off at all, it would be large consumers, industrial companies, not heating companies. But today, too, we have a situation where the state has never bought gas so far, but still buys gas suppliers according to how they have contracts with one or another company that consumes gas. So today I would expect every company that consumes gas to think seriously about whether the one that specifically buys its gas from has already stocked the gas and how much it has stocked. Perhaps companies are also thinking about how their security of supply will be ensured during the winter. So the bottom line of this plan B is, I guess we're not gonna miss the gas. Anyone who uses gas as a domestic customer, as a heating customer and as an industrial operator will be able to recover their gas this winter. In the long term, it is, of course, the long security of supply of LNG that ensures a peaceful life, not such a twitch.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U121	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U122	Thank you. My question concerns the request for authorisation of State aid from the European Commission. As the Lithuanian State has requested a State aid authorisation from the European Commission to finance a similar LNG terminal, has the draft assessed the need to apply for a State aid permit and how to avoid the second Estonian Air scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U123	Thank you. This is actually the answer to what has been said here, whether the Estonian state, the taxpayer, through Elering will operate on the Estonian gas market. If we were to do this and specifically support one or the other company, then there would certainly be a need for State aid authorisation, but since we do not have such a plan, there is no need to ask for State aid permission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U124	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U125	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. There's some kind of overlapping numbers that are probably confusing in the hall. Elering has 30 million shares in the additional budget. In addition, the Natural Gas Act states that the creation of the LNG terminal's reception capacity costs 30 million. One is a financial transaction, the other is a cost. €4 million will cost 1 sharp margin. You also said today that 4 million will go to the network fee to connect to the quay. What are the total costs so that we can guarantee the independence of Russian gas in the autumn and, at the same time, security of supply, as well as the creation of a quay network connection and the acquisition of a floating terminal? What are the total costs and how many are the financing transactions? What is the total amount that we have to take into account in the state budget, and how much will it cost people to pay online fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U126	Thank you. At these costs, it is also the cost of terminals that, in the end, everything gets to the consumer for the most part. There are very few costs that [are not passed on to the consumer]. It's the private sector, right, it gets to the consumer, it's the state, and, unfortunately, it's all taxpayers' money, all of us' money. (Phone ringing) I'm sorry! To ensure security of supply, well, now it has to be untied again. First of all, the fact that we will be equipped with gas from plan B next winter is that we are, as I said, 150 million for the purchase of 1 sharp, 20 million for other activities related to it, in particular operators' fees, and 4 million for which you have asked, are the annual gas storage costs in the Inčukalns storage facility. Now, that 150 million should be taken apart. We don't know today if the price of one sharp-hour is 150 million. It could be 100 million or 80 million. Yeah, that's what he is. But all of this is not a cost for the state, because the state will eventually sell this gas to consumers. There might be a certain minus, if we are forced to buy it more expensive, if there is a market price for this sale at some point, right, which is not really likely, because when we start selling the stock, it means that there is little gas, so the price is also high. So we should get that cost back. So it's not lost money to the state. The pipeline, yes, as I said, is believed to be 4 million. No one knows today the exact price, because the procurement has not been completed, right, but the estimated order of magnitude is plus/minus 4 million. That's really the part that goes on the network fee. Since Elering creates it with his own resources, he adds it to the network fee to get it back. Here, it is not to be feared that Elering will make some kind of profit from it, because all such prices are clearly under the control of the Competition Authority. Now, 30 million linked to the LNG terminal ship, to the establishment and operation of this FSRU company. I really hope it's not finally 30 million, it's 10 million. That's the first start-up cost. This is really what the Estonian taxpayer is paying out now and which he probably will not get back. But from there, when it's all started, this terminal is already running as any other terminal. The costs of this terminal are added to the gas price, so that there is no additional cost to the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U127	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. However, Riina Sikkut wishes to ask another question. Please, hurry up. Riina, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U128	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Very rightly you started that the whole cost, whether it is the cost of construction, the cost of stockholding, will eventually be borne by the consumer. For people, therefore, given the high prices, it is very important that they act economically. What we have been able to observe here in the press over the last month and, in fact, in the Commission's meetings, is such a competition for an important task. Yeah, sometimes competition gives you a better price. Well, it seems that by bidding for one LNG floating terminal, there will still be an increase in prices. In fact, it is very unfortunate to see that there is no cooperation, there is such competition. Why has this situation arisen and why is it not possible to work together with a private sector representative who is actually ready to bear the costs and who is several steps ahead in the development process in order to find the best solution for Estonian gas consumers by autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U129	Thank you. I very much hope that this cooperation will take place. I have no reason to doubt today that this cooperation will not take place. Yeah, the negotiations are complicated. One of the reasons why these negotiations have been difficult is certainly that this process has been extremely dynamic. This situation was one of the situations at hand: there was a risk that Russian gas supplies would be disrupted due to Russia's activities. We therefore needed to react quickly, while no one knows how long this interruption can be, with which a private operator has certain risks that he wanted to hedge. Today, we have come to a situation where we all understand that Russian gas consumption is going to be interrupted, regardless of what Russia is doing. Is Russia interrupting? Rather, we cut off this gas [consumption]. This already creates a presumption for the private operator that the operation at the terminal, the introduction of LNG into the region, can take place on a market-based basis. The situation has changed, and that makes it more difficult. If, from the outset, there had been a situation where it could have been said that there would not be an ounce of Russian gas coming to our market area for the next ten years, everything would have taken place immediately on a market basis, because the private sector would have had the confidence to invest. Unfortunately, it wasn't at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U130	Well, no more questions. Thank you. Kristen Michal, Chair of the Economic Commission, will co-report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll do a co-report. The Minister presented the draft, as was customary at first reading, very thoroughly, answered the questions, hopefully exhaustively. I am talking about what happened at the Commission's presentation reading. First, procedural decisions. Kristen Michal (consensus) was appointed rapporteur for the commission, it was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today (consensus), that the first reading be closed (also by consensus), and that the deadline for amendments be five working days, which is 17 May at 5.15 p.m. (consensus). A substantive debate that took place on 2 May. Taavi Aas, just as he introduced it here, told me why this bill was needed. All in all, I think everyone realized that this is practical and perhaps at some point no longer theoretical opportunities if the gas supply from Russia should fall or be cut off. To this end, it is necessary to set out the exact order of consumers or the way in which this consumption should operate. The draft also states that if there is less gas, consumption will be made according to the order and, if necessary, proposals will be made to reduce consumption. The issue raised by the Commission was once again discussed, for example, the use of marine waste water heat, precisely in order to reduce the potential market for Russian gas. Taavi Aas said that he would be in favour of it if it were written into the law. Mr Sester asked the same question as in the Chamber: whether there has been negotiations with market players, whether they have been informed and what role the Commission should play. We discussed this a little bit, and according to his request, we will send information on the reading of this draft in the Commission to the widest possible circle. Indeed, the first letters of reply, as the Minister mentioned, have already come. The rest is already a substantive debate on the draft, plus procedural proposals, which were discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U132	There's no questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U134	The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 596, but it will be possible for the political groups to speak in the course of the negotiations. I recall: only the factions. On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U135	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I must admit that I do not understand what is happening in the Estonian government. In today's security situation, where society screams under energy bills, very interesting decisions are made. We know that at least EUR 15 billion must be invested in the green turn in the coming years, most of which should come from private investors. Today, however, we see the state constantly crossing private companies and creating obstacles. Why should a private operator have the will to make a green turn and investment in such circumstances? We are talking about the first quarter of this year when a private operator gave a clear message that he is ready to build the LNG reception infrastructure, rent the ship and buy LNG. Only one decision was expected from the government: the government is abandoning Russian gas. Nothing more. Not a penny of investment money. They say they were looking for or asking for investment money. I've read these articles that were written by different newspapers at that time, many times through there's no asking for money anywhere. There is only one question: that the Estonian state would give a very clear message that it would give up Russian gas. Today we hear that there are several private operators willing to offer or build their existing quays. Then suddenly the state decides that Elering should negotiate. The state company, which robbed our people of hundreds of millions of euros of overvoltage charges this winter, without even looking at it, simply because of one wrong investment: cable was made between Latvia and Estonia before we had the capacity ourselves. It's May, ending the first decade. We still don't have any deals. They say all things should be done on a cost-based basis. At the same time, we are hearing how Elering has the right to rent a ship with Finns, which, as the Minister has spoken, costs 300-400 million, with a rent of 50+ million for ten years. In other words, more expensive than the ship pays. Is it revenue-based? We are talking about investment. While private companies are willing to invest with their own money, over EUR 200 million is written into the additional budget of the state budget for the purchase of gas for 1 terawatt-hours at 170 million. Can you imagine anyone in this hall today who would be willing to buy gas for that kind of money? But the state guarantees gas for this amount of money. For who? Are there any customers who could buy gas with that money? At the same time, Alexela offered a gas price of EUR 50 to 60. When the private operator had said in a loud and clear voice that there was a ship, and with a fool's head he said the name of the ship, then Elering and the Finnish company went and overselled the ship. But who's gonna pay for it? We as the end user, no one else. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U136	Extra time, you mean? You're just saying, "Please, three minutes. " Does this mean that you want three minutes of extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U137	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U138	Got it. Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U139	On that, I would say that we do have investors who would be willing to invest, but there are more obstacles and there are more stretchers with decisions. I think that, very clearly, certain bodies in the state structure today should examine who are the forces that are actually doing everything to get us to buy Russian gas again in the autumn. Because by now only obstacles have been made for more than two months so that it will not be possible to build the LNG terminal in Estonia. Disputes, proceedings, discussions are ongoing, one organisation is given rights and responsibilities. Today I asked who prepared the bill. I didn't get an answer. Is it a person who works at the Ministry and at the same time is on Elering's council, or whose husband works at Elering, or someone who...? I don't want to say. We cannot get the answers why it is being done that public money, which ultimately has to be paid by private consumers and businesses, or end-users, is being put in place. Going past the European Union directives, bypassing competition law, playing a war game again. For ten years now, we know that it is desirable to create an Elering terminal in Estonia. In 2014 it was abandoned. Now everything is done to keep no ships here this autumn. I didn't get a very clear answer. If today the private operators would say again in a loud and clear voice that we do not want anything from the state except that there is a connection to the Balticconnector pipeline, would this law be necessary or not? Everyone can create their own terminal. We have one in this hall today, and the other is asking. Anyone who is ready to invest, please, invest! I think Elering has one responsibility: to give her the opportunity and the ability to connect. In my knowledge, however, if gas runs from Estonia, this gas will be paid by the Estonian, just as we paid the overload fee with electricity. The fact that the electricity went from here to Latvia paid the overload fee in the form of an Estonian right here, no one else. It says the Finn is going to pay for this piece. It is not going to pay for this part of Finland; it is going to pay for our own consumers. In view of the fact that this is a hostile draft for the people of Estonia and, in my opinion, also dangerous to security, the Pro Patria Party will hand over the proposal to reject the draft 596. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U140	Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U141	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The gas is on its feet, although we only have one leg, there are no front and no hind legs. But that's it. I'm worried about what's going on. When was it when Taavi Rõivas was Prime Minister and was the question of where to build this terminal, and our child prime minister simply left Estonia's interests unprotected? It was during the war in Ukraine in October. The Prime Minister was second in Finland, we had Taavi in Rõiva. Hans H.Luik has said very well that the European Union was ready to finance the terminal when the Prime Minister of the Reform Party decided to play an extraordinarily goat. We're talking about the Tavi Clothes. In public performances, the Voice of Heist has considered Taavi Cloth to be enthusiastic but easy-to-be hustler. I'm talking about the Reform Party being company-friendly, that's bullshit. This can be fully accepted. Even now the Reform Party is in power, but with the Central Party, and now they're trying to get the chestnuts out of the fire. The Ukrainian war is blowing, the pipe is made, but now there is a question of where this terminal is coming from. Now, these are the same Taavi Aas, nor would he want to be in his shoes now, one threatening and the other, and whether or not there is peace at home, and the white ship should be docked on 1 November. But where the fuck is he going to be? There's no place to land. Indeed, Alexela has been working on this for a long time, hat down, but their plan, which has also been thoroughly assessed for environmental effects, concerns the quays. It's a physical pier, a physical pier about a kilometer long, with a real pier of a few hundred meters. All on top of the pipes, of course, big bottom cleaning, blue-clayed pipes, and so on. That's it. But in order to build this quay, Alexela was planning to build a temporary dam of more than 300 metres. Because, you see, it's kind of hard to build a thing like this on the high seas in the Bay of Bay. Now we've gone into savings. There's only a 30 x 50 meter pier, well, on the pipes about a kilometer from the coast, and then the pipe comes from there to the land. And now this LNG ship has to be standing by that tiny, 30 x 50 meter pier, in a stormy sea, permanently. When the first environmental impact assessment was made according to the length of the quay and the stationary quay at it, and it was that the ship would come for a moment, give the smoke, give the gas away and get out of there, then now comes this tiny, so-called floating quay, not a floating quay, but it was actually knocked down by pipes 30 x 50 metres old quay, a giant tanker, which is not yet there, and must be stationary there, even in the stormy sea. And I stress, the white ship must arrive on November 1st. Look at the calendar! Procurement has not been announced at this moment, less than five months to do so, and we have put everything on the same card. When was it when Tallink was baptized, Kaja Kallas baptized the bunker ship Optimus? Last November, I think it was the third or something. It's [the ship] supplying our Tallink ships. But you know, the friends whose flag Optimus is flying? Under the Latvian flag. Under the Latvian flag! Kaja Kallas, Prime Minister, christened the ship Optimus under the Latvian flag. Why? After all, we have adopted here that Estonian cargo ships and ships come under the flag of Estonia, many here have been actively involved. But now the result is that Estonia has fallen from the so-called white league to the grey league.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U142	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U143	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U144	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U145	It has fallen into the grey league, and the leaders of Infortar say it is useful to be under the Latvian flag. It's also a LNG bunker ship that's moving around right now. It's not going to come to Paldiski, but it's a little bit of an example. I'm not going to tell you what suspicious things this Optimus does at sea, that's what we can talk about later. The question now is that, yes, we have missed out, some have been enthusiasts here, [this is] in the case of Taavi Clothes, right, and this could have been done long ago at the beginning of the Ukrainian war. And now we're rushing into it. At the same time, we have quays: there is a quay in Maardu, there is a quay in the Pakri Peninsula where to protect from the northern winds, right? They say there's no safety radius. Well, okay, I can't talk much longer here, even though I'm a little familiar with these things. Does this quay cost $4 million or more? I don't know yet, but November 1st has to be a white ship. This triage thing that's been set up here is great. In difficult times, you have to see who's going to die and who we're going to let with the doctor. This is an example of gas triage. That's great. But in general, we're rushing into clogged feet, we don't know where, autumn comes from, we need gas. It is also not known where these gas molecules [will come from], whether or not they will still come from Russia, to infiltrate at the last minute. This has been discussed several times in the Commission. I don't know, maybe in the summer we'll have to start eating words and start taking gas from Russia. But right now we have a tube under the Gulf of Finland, there are reception points for the connector both here and there, right? It is the same [development] that Taavi Aas said that for the first year, this tanker should come here to the Gulf of Gulf of Laheperé and then to Finland when it is ready. The movement is in the right direction, but, as I said, the situation is extremely nervous. I am not sure that even if this white ship arrives on 1 November at the so-called floating quay of Bay of the Gulf, when this first disaster will come, if it rams that nutshell and the gas does not reach the pipe, it will reach the Gulf Bay or somewhere else. So let's keep our fingers crossed so these projections aren't so black. But the general situation, gentlemen, is quite harsh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U146	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the great-grandfather, a member of the Riigikogu, considered it necessary to express his nervousness and renegade the [ex] prime minister from politics, but I do not think that it is a matter for which to come to the Riigikogu's remote control. Don't come back, don't talk about everything, don't talk about everything, and don't talk about your feelings at all. This is about ensuring energy security, where the political decision has fallen: we are abandoning Russian gas, and we are also seeking it from everyone else. We have decided to invest in infrastructure. If some old lady gets complicated by tracking it, I'm going to use the word "old" to reflect her own use of words in relation to a competitor, otherwise I hate this stigma, but be that way, it's worth asking, not going here to talk about how this quay, the quay and the tube, and that person has done wrong and not knowing exactly, but generally the situation is nervous. There's no need for this crap to be done here. I have actually explained in my group that this is a relatively technical issue now. If we want to clarify our positions here, we should ask first and foremost. The old lady of course doesn't ask, she's going to declare, and like her party on the same subject, she's getting into Russian interests again, that the quay there is actually Russian business, read the papers, you'll get smarter. Let the people do it. I think the Minister for Energy is responsible now and can answer these questions. Elering is the one who negotiates, and let it stay there. Everyone doesn't have to come here just to celebrate, it's not a party thing right now. This is an issue of energy security and common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U148	The political groups have no further wish to speak, so I will close the negotiations. We have on the table a proposal from the commission to finish the first reading of draft 596. I have a question for Mr. Chef: you gave me a piece of paper, but there's no signature here. Mr. Chef, you gave me a piece of paper, but there's no signature here! The signature of the chairman of the political group is missing. It's the kind of story that needs it. And a story like that, you don't have a chance to take a break. But the vice-chairman's signature would be fine if you found the vice-chairman. He's not here either. Well, there is a story that, unfortunately, this proposal is currently not being voted on. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, but time goes on, there's nothing to do. Dear friends, the proposal of the commission is... Mr. Chef, what is this procedural question? You don't have a procedure, do you have a phone call?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U149	It's kind of a procedure. The signature's already running this way, so I think we should wait for this one minute. The problem isn't that acute now. See if you've still been sent through the Internet the same paper with digital signatures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U150	I understand you're slowing down. I can hear the steps running this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U151	Yeah, they're running, they're on foot. That's why the microphone's in. And you see, the signature came too! The signature was just in time, as always.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U152	Mr. Signature's here! Next time, I'll ask you to stick to it a little bit and not use the procedural means to stall time. [[A voice from the hall.]] You were also able to send it electronically, so the work being done in this sense will always make it easier for us to carry out our procedures. Now, however, the Isamaa Group has proposed a rejection and it needs to be voted through. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we are discussing draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, the Emergency Act and the Competition Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 596, and the proposal by the Fatherland Group to reject the draft is going to be voted on. I therefore vote on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to reject the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, the Emergency Act and the Competition Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, by number 596 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U153	The rejection was supported by 25, 49 against, one abstention. The proposal was not supported. So we've finished our first reading. I will set the deadline of 17 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U154	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 502. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Valge, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must start by saying that there is not much respect in the university world for the scientists and faculty who go to different conferences and forums to talk the same thing. There is even such an international consensus on this issue, it is the same... Yeah? Badly heard? Can you hear better now? There is even an international consensus on this issue, just as it is in Germany, Latvia and Estonia, even though internationalisation and mobility are the mission of universities and the criterion of performance funding set out in our Higher Education Act, which means that the more you drive around, the more effective you are, despite the substantial work. Therefore, I, too, find it a little awkward to make these same statements here, which I have already spoken about many times in many places, but politics is different, and I have to do it. And also because my conclusions have not been disproved and there have also been no significant conclusions drawn from them, even though the ice has started to move a little bit. Therefore, I still have to address the general problems of higher education as an initiative. Good higher education education should meet four basic conditions. First of all, ensure that talented Estonian young people do not get caught up in the lack of money. Secondly, higher education should be of high quality. Thirdly, higher education education should ensure that young people are trained in the fields and extent that Estonian society and the state need at that moment and strategically in the future. And fourthly, higher education education should support Estonian national culture and nation state. Of these four conditions, we're pretty much the first. The latter, or support for national culture and state, is quite out of hand because there has been a rapid English-speaking process and partly because of the quality of the English language. Part of the increase in the number of foreign students studying in English, which in turn grows out of the funding conditions. And the remaining of foreign students who are known to study in English in the Estonian labour market is limited. On the other hand, the fall in quality is also due to the fact that Estonian students are part of the study in English. In conclusion, with these problems, we actually need a thorough reform of higher education institutions or of the whole education system. I think all the people who are getting into this are going to understand that. If we cannot do this, and it does not seem that during this government, we will at least try to change it so that higher education studies support our national culture and country as much as possible. I am now quoting positively from our Minister for Education and Research, who said so in this Chamber on 18 April. "But indeed, in earlier times, one of the metrics of university funding has been the internationalisation of universities and also the number of foreign students at the university. That is what we want to abandon when concluding new administrative contracts, because these quantitative objectives have been achieved, we do not need to encourage it in any way anymore. In the case of internationalisation, we want to abandon quantitative targets. The goal is that we look first and foremost not at quantity, but at quality, which students reach Estonia, so that they are really very strong students who would give our academic family [something] more so that they would not be able to earn money. Yes, from quantity we want to move towards quality. " It is, in fact, exactly or to a large extent the same as that requested by this draft. And now I'm going to the bill. I will make the task of my colleague Signe Kivi a little easier: I will refer to the comments of the government's assessment and then I will answer them. First of all, the draft law on higher education has been amended in such a way that the university's mission is to promote science and culture and lifelong learning, to provide society with the necessary services based on learning, research and creative activities, and to support students to become responsible and initiativeable citizens. Universities should support the development of society and the preservation of national culture through research, development and creative activities. What has been removed is that the mission of universities is to support internationalisation, and the argument is that it is not an objective. The mission should still include a goal. It is a tool and there is no reason to sign up for the mission. The instrument cannot be part of a university mission. Now, the government's opinion on this draft states that by removing internationalisation from the mission of universities, we are signaling that internationalisation is not important and should not contribute to it. As a result, Estonian higher education institutions would isolate themselves from the rest of the European Higher Education Area, which would create obstacles to the growth of Estonia's influence in international knowledge circulation and networks and opportunities to participate in new initiatives, becoming a clear brake on development. Well, I say no sign. Science is international in nature. Well, you don't know any other science. Science is international in nature. Maybe in the early 1990s, when our faculty didn't know English at universities, it was in some way appropriate. At present, however, this provision clearly signals that the mission is to become more international, we must always become more international, but it is as if it defines us as a colonial country or as a scientific province and isolation that has nothing to do with it. The draft has further amended the provision of the Law on Higher Education defining the criteria for performance finance. It is formulated so that performance funding takes into account the existing responsibilities of the higher education institution and the indicators of quality of education. And what has been removed is that the indicators of international mobility are taken into account. Well, international mobility is, after all, a tool that is currently set out in this Higher Education Act, i.e. on a single stick of quality: mobility is as important as quality. I say this: if the performance facility pushes the instrument, then universities will focus on the instrument. Universities have pragmatic people who have to provide their educational institutions with public funding, and if public funding depends on how much mobility is promoted in universities, it will be promoted. That's right. The Government's opinion argues that performance indicators and the basis for their calculation are based on strategic objectives in the field of education. Motivating short-term mobility for an institution of higher education promotes the choice of Estonian upper secondary school graduates in favour of the Estonian higher education institution, as it is possible to acquire international learning experience during studies. That's the government's opinion. I reply that it is a sign that the assessment of the amendment to the law refers to the development plan, which we did not vote in the Riigikogu, right. This means that the development plan was made by officials. Now, if the legislation refers to the development plan as an argument, then it means that the law is actually run by officials. But the contents. As a general rule, being abroad means finishing a university later, but its impact on quality may not be higher than zero. Well, let's just say that if it's even higher than zero, this price-quality ratio might not be far from proportional. As a rule, from the University of Tartu, you will go to universities whose level is lower than the University of Tartu. But maybe that's not the point. The main thing is that performance funding does not need to take into account an indicator that is not related to the quality of learning and which directs universities to spend taxpayers' money, which is already lacking. There is even such a paradox here, make sure that, in order for universities to receive more taxpayers' money with performance funding, they themselves have to spend more of it. Further, according to the draft, subsection 3 (3) of the Higher Education Act states that the proportion of students studying in foreign language curricula must not exceed 10% of the number of students in public higher education institutions and state universities of applied sciences at the first level of study, 20% at the second stage of study and 30% at the third stage of study. So, right, 10%, 20% and 30%. At present, these proportions are 8%, 26% and 35%. In the case of a doctoral degree programme, 35% is provided that bilingual curricula are included in the doctoral programme. If not, it's only 20% now. Only 20% study in doctoral studies in purely Estonian-language curricula. So if you compare these current proportions to what is set out in the draft, the Bachelor level will essentially have the same proportion, or there is even a little room for increasing English-language learning if necessary. At Master's level, English language education should be slightly reduced and doctoral level should be further reduced. The draft also provides for transitional periods, with doctoral studies up to 2025/2026. At this point, I would also like to stress that over the last 15 years, there has been a very rapid English-speaking process and, if this draft was adopted, the proportion of Master's and Doctoral studies we had in 2015-2016 would remain. The Government's opinion points out that for doctoral programmes, the language of instruction is mostly Estonian and English. It is determined, these are bilingual curricula, and 55% of them are bilingual, but in reality, education takes place largely in English. In doctoral studies, this is the government's opinion that allowing several languages of instruction is indispensable for doctoral studies to meet the agreed quality criteria. The Government's opinion further states that in doctoral studies, independent research, development and creative activities account for at least 70% of the volume of the curriculum and that the doctoral studies end with the protection of the doctoral thesis. When a doctoral thesis is produced on the basis of scientific publications, it requires three scientific publications published in the leading scientific journal of the pre-recendented specialty. As a general rule, it means articles in English; it is argued in the government's assessment, which also leads to the drafting of a doctoral thesis in English. This evaluation considers that it is better to set qualitative targets and agree on administrative agreements. For my part, I say that several languages of study are thus allowed, since, first, education is considered to have been acquired in Estonian according to the Language Act, if at least 60% of the studies take place in Estonian. 60%! In addition, according to this draft, 30% will remain so-called non-Estonian. And now you can count with me if you want. In the case of doctoral studies, we would overall have 30% full-language doctoral studies, plus the remaining 70% 60% must take place in Estonian and up to 40% in English or other languages. If all these figures are taken together, 58% of doctoral studies can take place in English or another language. So there is nothing extremely strict here or that restricts publication. Seriously, this language of scientific publications has nothing to do with it. Even if their share of doctoral studies was higher, they can still be written in English. But here I also say that this level of English-language articles may not be higher than that of the Estonian-speaking people, and in the humanities and social sciences very often, very often, I would stress the lower level. I have my own personal example, I am also a member of the college of a high-rated foreign magazine in English, and the level is definitely lower there than that of the Historical Magazine or Tuna, these Estonian historical journals. Next, learning English does not provide a good language for articles. Quite the contrary, for example, a linguist, top journalist Indrek Park confirms that this is the opposite. If you don't know your native language well, you can't express yourself well in a foreign language. The English-language articles translated from good language are much, much better than the English-language articles written in this globish, aren't they? Finally, the Riigikogu's Committee on Problems in the Development of Estonian Language Learning turned to the Minister of Education and Research a week ago with completely identical proposals, as is the case in this draft. Well, they're a little different, in some nuances. This, let's say, makes perfect sense that such a visit came because it would be extremely strange if we were to make desperate efforts here to take Estonian to basic, primary and secondary school education and, at the same time, abandon the Estonian language in higher education. I'm sure you'll agree it's nonsense. It is therefore logical that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu also proposed that the first reading of this draft be stopped. Indeed, these outdated provisions must be removed and a ceiling set for foreign language learning. I am not at all of the opinion that this draft could not be improved, perhaps these proportions need some change after the negotiations, but all of this can be discussed and proposed improvements made. I would ask for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U156	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U157	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I intend to support it as you asked. Significantly, it makes sense. There's only one nuance that I can't fully understand and couldn't find here, and it's a lot easier to accept everything else. The question is in the second part of § 3 (3), where you consider it reasonable that the percentage of students in foreign language curricula be in place: [at first stage] 8%, second 20% and third 30%. Why do you consider it necessary to regulate the number of students? I'm saying that everything else I understand is a lot easier. Where or why did [these numbers come from], and is there a specific understanding of these numbers [on the back], or is that your assessment of the initiators?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U158	I believe that this regulation of proportions is necessary in order to establish a certain ceiling and guarantee for English-speaking, so that we do not have the rapid English-speaking process that has so far taken place. I really must acknowledge this, yes, as I have already stated with this quote, that our Minister for Education and Science has also realised that relying on quantity will not take us forward. Now, you asked where these proportions came from. I looked at the dynamics that have taken place during the last 15 years of English-speaking, and then I took into account how the current situation is and how soon it is possible, let's say, to change the situation, as well as where the place needs to be changed and where the place doesn't need to be changed. These proportions were established on the basis of the current state of play. But, as I said before, I do not think that they have to be exactly like this. It's a matter of negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U159	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U160	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Life has shown that, just as our country's independence decreases and is dissolved and dissolved, it also takes place in other areas of life, so that higher education is no different in any way. There is a process of self-colonisation. I ask the honourable speaker for a comparison: in which European countries have fewer students been able to cope? Especially in the light of the fact that when I go to Britain, I have seen African universities on Great Britain, with which they make money, probably many of them will remain in England too. Could we have such a goal, let's say, for these colonists of our own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U161	Thank you. I guess it's very, very different all over the world, and it's different by university. Well, I don't know, if I now give an example of Estonian universities, if I remember correctly, the proportion of foreign students at Tallinn University is 19%, and he is somewhere below the 1000th in the world university ranking, right? However, the proportion of foreign students at the University of Helsinki is 6% and, according to the latest data, it was 103rd. Let's just say that I want to express that the proportion of foreign students does not relate to university level. It's very different in different universities. With regard to the second part of your question, I would say that this draft does not, in itself, try to limit the proportion of foreign students before the matter, behind you, but is a question of limiting the proportion of students studying in English. What could be better if one talented foreign student comes to Estonia, learns Estonian during the studio and stays well integrated after working in Estonia after the studio. But the current arrangement doesn't guarantee it, it's a long way from that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U162	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! I have this feeling that our higher education level, how to say, has created a fork in the planning process. In fact, if we look at the education development plan, we will see that by 2035 50% of the 30- to 34-year-olds will have to have higher education. But when we look at the abilities of people with our higher education, we see that we have an overqualified whole process, because 40% of graduates with higher education say that their level does not correspond to those required at the workplace. How do we get out of this process in the first place, so that whoever graduates from higher education is also qualified and is paid accordingly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U164	Thank you. It would be difficult not to accept this analysis. I don't remember if they... I guess those percentages were like you said. How are we gonna get out of this? As has been said, this is one of the defects in our higher education education, and there is no other way to do it if the whole system needs a proper reform. First a proper analysis and then a look at how to reform it. This is now a slightly different subject that I would actually like to talk about, but maybe I'm not going to continue on this subject right now. We actually need reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U165	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U166	Good manager! Good Jack! Yeah, you can argue about these numbers, and maybe they shouldn't be here in that form, but there should be some kind of orientation. Now, the bachelor doesn't have a problem, the master should have a minus 6% and the doctor will have 30%. But is it the pace when the target is 2025/2026? there is not a lot of land there, knowing the landscape, is real, or what should be done in this case? I'm sure he's real. But what does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U167	This means that once these provisions have been introduced, universities will maintain... Universities are autonomous in nature. In fact, the state provides them with so-called frames in which they are autonomous. Administrative agreements can still organise these shares in the future. And the universities themselves decide how and where they reduce something, where they increase something on the spot. These percentages are all-Estonian. This does not mean that some universities may not have a slightly different proportion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U168	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Can you give an example from our neighbors, who now have the best regulated provision of higher education in their own language? Do we have somewhere to follow the example, or are we still pioneers in valuing and maintaining higher education in our own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U170	Thank you. These regulations, as I said before, are very different in different countries. Clearly, in small countries where native language and national culture are at greater risk, including us, such regulations are more necessary. Let's say, as a paradox, I could cite the Danish universities as an example. In Danish universities, which have been set an example for us and argued that our students can go [to be able to study] if we do not have enough good conditions, of course they can go, the Bachelor's degree is almost entirely Danish-language education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U171	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The conclusion of the audit "Higher Education Reform and Labour Needs" of the National Audit Office was that students' professional choices have moved in the opposite direction to the labour needs of society. Higher education is quite theoretical, does not give much contact with the practical life that is important for the contractor, experiences come later. Vocational education, on the other hand, is geared towards practical skills and also provides theoretical knowledge. Now, if you think a little about the need for labour, it may not be directly related to this law, but I am still asking you, what is the state of our vocational education and training in our educational landscape? How do you measure it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U173	Yes, it is in this sense the precise question that we should not look at higher education education in a narrow way, just inside the tunnel, but rather at the Estonian educational landscape as a whole. If we do this as a whole, these OSKA reports also show that, in fact, our labour market is going to be much more thirsty in the future for graduates of vocational schools and vocational training, and the labour market needs it more. This percentage, the percentage that has gone into the development plan for education, the proportion of high-educated people must be, is also written there when looking at the ceiling. There is no clear analysis of this as to why this percentage should be so. And I say, as I have already said to some of my predecessors, that, in fact, our higher education training needs a major reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U174	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, good Jack! Let's talk some science. According to the Preamble of the Constitution, the purpose of our country is to preserve the Estonian language and culture, and the scientific language is part of it. Of course, scientific language is inextricably linked to science. Our country, which is terribly bureaucratic because of the European Union, produces an enormous number of different language documents and plans. We have "Estonia's Language Strategy 2018.2027," we have the "Estonia's Language Development Plan 2021.2035." And one point in these development plans is that the functioning of the Estonian language must be guaranteed as a scientific language through the balancing of Estonian and English. So, science language and balance. Have you understood what is currently in our national language strategy this balance in the scientific language?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U176	Thank you. This issue contained a very precise description of the situation. I have to answer the question, unfortunately, with something so precise in this case, I cannot say that I have not understood what this equilibrium point should be. Indeed, if there are no percentages anywhere and there is nothing further defined, this is an empty statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U177	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The bill is very sympathetic in itself, but I'm asking you about the percentages that we've been running through here many times. The 8%, 20% and 30%. This is such an interesting approach that the Estonian language [to be taught] is considered when [the teaching] is 60% in the Estonian language. Now, if you were to do the math calculations, you'd probably have 42% in the doctorate, 48% in the master's and 55% in the bachelor's class, because we're taking the base. Isn't this bar a little low? This means that perhaps we should think more about the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U179	Well, that's a nice question. They usually ask why these bars are in the first place and that they are somehow pressurizing or restricting something. But it's a sympathetic [question]. We must, in some way, be guided by the existing situation. There will be no major upheavals and no very heavy obligations will be imposed on universities abruptly. But, as I said to your groupmate, these proportions are certainly the subject of negotiations and it would be extremely sympathetic if your group's representative in the Committee on Culture were to put even more pressure on these percentages in favour of the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U180	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U181	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam author, my dear colleague from the Committee on Culture. I have a question about that. In the explanatory memorandum, you say to your bill that rapid English-speaking has led to a drop in the quality of higher education. I ask: what is the basis of this statement? Is there some kind of research? What facts show this? If you look at the location of universities in international rankings, for example, it has only improved, our universities are internationally accredited. What shows a drop in quality and how do you know that the fall in quality has occurred because of English-speaking rather than because of funding problems, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U182	Thank you. Indeed, in the real world, these causal links are not such that one cause affects the outcome or the other 100%. But what I'm saying is based on, and I think that to do so maybe you don't really need a lot of research, is that just learning in your native language gives you the best quality. And certainly, if the proportion of learners in the mother tongue is reduced, this in itself also means a drop in quality. As you know, my fellow Member, we do not really appreciate the quality of university education. This can be estimated by indirect parameters, such as the amount of the higher education wage bonus. If we look at this figure now, the salary bonus for Estonian higher education has been constantly falling compared to other European countries. He is now somewhere in the back of the five European countries, he has fallen down. And obviously one part of this is that those foreign students who study in English in Estonia and then stay on the Estonian labour market, but since they do not speak Estonian, their wage bonus is smaller than those who speak Estonian. If the share of foreign students has increased, the wage bonus as a whole has also decreased, and in large part it basically also means a drop in quality. Of course, this causal link is not so direct. Thanks for the tip!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U183	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U184	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's see, if we didn't move anything, well, this bill wouldn't be processed, thrown into a trash can and so on, and not regulated at all. If you look at it now, in seven years the bakal will have 94% to 92%, the master will have 87% to 74% and the doctor will have 82% to 20% Estonian. What could [this situation] be, for example, in the next seven years? As I understand it, the bakal would be more or less 90% and the master would be 61%, but the doctoral studies should be completely English in a few years' time. Or am I not getting this right? What's the prognosis if it goes the way it goes? Leaving [out] the sovereignty of universities and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U185	Thank you. First of all, I specify that this doctoral studies 20% means that 20% is purely in Estonian, in addition to 55% there are Estonian- and English-language curricula where English is dominant. But the key question is what will happen if we do not put the floor in the fall of the native language. This also depends to a large extent on the administrative agreements that the Ministry of Education and Research will conclude with universities. Indeed, it is positive that these administrative agreements have already undergone changes that, to some extent, stop English speaking. But first, they are not sufficient, and second, administrative contracts are still concluded by the executive and the executive regulates the language use of universities. However, if this law were to be incorporated into it, we could be much more confident that our mother tongue status is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U186	In the meantime, we must vote on the extension of the sitting. We have received a proposal from the Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. I can't do all the questions until the hearing is over, so let's call a hall and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed that today's plenary session be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a position and vote on the extension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U187	37 delegates are in favour of extending the sitting, 13 against. The session will run until 14:00 today. Let's continue with the questions. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U188	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We know that the increased share of foreign students and English-speaking have certainly helped to fill our universities' wallets, helped them to earn their own income in order to survive in the first place. But what about your assessment: Has the increased share of foreign students and English-languageism also helped to increase the content of our higher education? Maybe you can open that side a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U189	Thank you. This is certainly a pertinent question again. My argument is that he has not helped to increase academic content, because foreign students are accepted without a substantive contest. There is no reason to believe that the average level of foreign students is higher than the average level of Estonian students. On the other hand, I am pleased to note once again that, in the administrative agreements proposed by the Minister for Education and Research, the direction is precisely on the quality of foreign students. I would also like to point out that a part of tuition fees paid by foreign students who, although paying tuition fees, do not actually cover the cost incurred by the taxpayer for one student's study place. The model, as is currently the case in teaching foreign students, is in no way beneficial to the Estonian taxpayer and does not increase the quality of Estonian universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U190	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You referred to the possibility that some people who have completed doctoral studies would like to stay in Estonia, but are not good enough on the labour market due to the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language. I would like to know whether Estonian universities have any motivation to teach Estonian to foreign students. Is it, where and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U192	Thank you. First of all, it may not be the worst figures regarding the remaining of doctoral graduates in the Estonian labour market. They are still people with a high level of mental capacity, who often remain in the academic sphere, and they often learn the Estonian language themselves. I can tell that from one of my Ph.D. students all the same. Although universities provide them with a certain [to be specified] Estonian language education, the issue is above all in undergraduate and master-level students, it is certainly not enough. Universities are not sufficiently motivated to do so, as their performance finance does not depend on it. The performance facility depends on other things, as stated earlier. This situation can certainly be improved again by means of administrative agreements, but it is best to do so through the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U193	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U194	Thank you. As we know, Estonian-language higher education is free of charge, thanks to the Fatherland. It is possible to go two ways: one is Finland's tea, where the state has better funded free higher education, and the other is the Netherlands, where there is a small higher education tax. However, in today's discussions, I believe that an important issue has been left out. In fact, every student who is in Estonia, including foreign students, leaves money here every day, both in the rental market and in shops, dining places and so on. When you did this bill, did you or did you not look at this angle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U195	I didn't try to analyze it, but this point is important, and I'd add to it. He's leaving his money here for the rental market and stores, but he's also using our social services. And he often also has family members who then, let's say, do not work and use only social services. I do not know whether this is actually a zero sum or not, if we also consider that the training of these foreign students is in any case more expensive for the Estonian taxpayer than the amount of tuition they pay. I don't know if the result is zero or not. But let's say that maybe this question comes down a little bit like this to the broader question of whether the population of Estonia itself is always useful a priori. The answer is no. You see, Iceland is, isn't it, times and times with a smaller population than Estonia, but it is very well able to preserve its national culture and is an exceptionally wealthy country. Our economic performance also depends partly on the population, but depends first and foremost on the proportion of working age and dependants, right? I do not want to say in any way that increasing the birth rate in Estonia should not be one very important objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U196	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U197	Thank you very much. Professor Daniele Monticelli of Tallinn University has said that doing English science is indispensable for young scientists. He has also noted that the concept of national science has, according to him, been very unsuccessful, because science is science and it must be done in such a way as to be understandable, regardless of the language in which it is done. Peep Nemvalts, the head of the Tallinn University Science Language Centre, has said at the same time, as a question of whether the Estonian national idea should be thought in English or Estonian. How would you comment now, six years later, in 2022: Should the idea of nationality be thought in English or in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U198	Language is an instrument of thinking and obviously the mother tongue is the most high-quality instrument of thinking. There is probably an answer here: we get a better national idea than we think in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U199	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U200	Thank you again, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I would say to the Fatherland that Estonian-language higher education is not thanks to the Fatherland, but still thanks to the Estonian people, who have all our efforts... [[There's a call in the hall.]] But indeed, internationalization cannot be a mission or purpose of any university; in good case, it can be a tool or, at the very least, a tool for some added value and quality of higher education. I ask you more broadly: what do you think the objectives of higher education policy should be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U201	I actually mentioned it at the beginning, but I'd love to overdo it, because repeating is the mother of wisdom. First of all, that Estonian young people who are talented with sufficient mental abilities should have access to higher education. Whether he or she is in one form or another, whether he or she is a so-called free higher education or whether he or she has instruments designed to enable the student to borrow, it is a matter of a separate conversation. Secondly, Estonian higher education policy should be such that it ensures the quality of higher education. Third, Estonian higher education should ensure that young people in preparation comply with the Estonian labour market. And fourthly, he should support national culture. I could also point out that, in fact, Estonia's higher education policy should be such that the price-quality ratio invested in universities is good, so that there is no overexploitation or preparation of young people in areas where the labour market does not need it. Which in principle would mean that universities should function rationally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U202	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U203	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I kept thinking about the instrument of this thinking. Well, obviously today there is no need to worry about English, because [England] is a third country for the European Union. We don't have to worry very seriously here about English or, say, Turkish and Russian. Although Russian has invaded UEFA and FIFA, it is understandable since Gazprom, the big head [is there]. But what would be the second direction now: French or German? After all, we have the free movement of people, students, everyone in Europe. Which one do you think it would be? And now there's another point, just in the ears. At one time in Bangladesh or somewhere there were so many of those interested, students, wouldn't it be cheaper for us to make a branch there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U204	At least this first question, this reference is entirely relevant, because in fact we have allowed English to dominate too much in our academic education. And if you're asking me now that if we wanted to reduce the proportion of English to the expense of another foreign language, which foreign language should be, my answer would be German. German as the first foreign language in Estonia has been historically dominant until the end of World War II. And of course, one or the other or a third [the language could] also, not only English. But yes, to these foreign students, I think our attitude should be that it is not the country of origin that matters, but whether they are talented enough to study at Estonian universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U205	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U206	Thank you. I still specify at the beginning: until 2013, Estonian higher education was partly free of charge, not everything. Since 2013, thanks to the decisions and proposal of the Isamaa Party, the coalition decided that Estonian-language higher education is free of charge, and this is still valid. Some people here thought that was not the case. But the question I have is, what kind of benefits do spouses receive? You say they spend so much more. I can tell you that in Holland, it's a business project in a good way, it's a huge income in the state budget. They offer higher education, they have top universities, students from all over the world come together. They leave this year, two or three, depending on how long they study there, a lot of money there. In fact, it is one of the possibilities for higher education institutions to earn additional income. I do not want to make it any less important here that education in Estonian must be, it is important, but international experience is always important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U207	Yeah, I get it, sure. I think a change in this situation should take place a little bit in the opposite direction. In particular, the fact that we tend to have mass universities hinders the high rankings of our universities. We have too many students per faculty. If we could still improve the reputation of our universities, it would mean that we would first, well, say, have students with higher mental abilities, and second, those foreign students who would come to us would be motivated to come here despite the fact that we may have high tuition fees at universities. So as of now, I believe, a large proportion of the foreign students who have come here would not have come if they had been granted this tuition fee, which actually covers their tuition costs. And it's times bigger than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U208	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna ask you a little bit more about these percentages. It's been based here on student sharing. Was there also a debate in order not to focus so much on the students, but on the specialties and through it tried it? No specialties, no curriculums. We have specific curricula and share these percentages. Was it, like, these two choices [were discussed]? One is really to take students [based], the other is to take curricula.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U210	Basically, of course, it is possible, yes, it is possible. Currently, these percentages are offered according to the number of students studying in the respective language curricula, and it is, of course, possible to take them by curriculum. I think that maybe taking it by curriculum could provoke some kind of situation where, in order to meet the criterion of performance finance, which currently exists in the Higher Education Act, a very large number of student curricula would start to be created, right, and then it could get out of hand. But again, basically, it's the subject of negotiations. That may be the case in itself, but right now I thought the proportion of students studying in the language was better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U211	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question. When you prepared this draft, or when you spoke in the Commission about it on several occasions, you quoted the government's response and also said that I do not remember whether the Minister or the Ministry has begun to understand this issue and agrees with it, did university management agreements come up? That's part of it. If we do not talk about funding, then it is quite irrelevant, well not irrelevant, but it is very difficult to apply what we write down in law, the will if there is no real financing. It is now a rather unprecedented story, which has never existed with any Estonian government, that the government and universities cannot reach an agreement on administrative contracts. For some reason, this situation has been going on for quite a long time. Money was found to find fast tests without a contest, but no funds were found to conclude administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U213	Yeah, it came up. I would say that the failure to conclude administrative contracts is due to what you referred to, right? That the universities have not been adequately funded. But he came up in this context that the representatives of the government thought that these issues could be regulated better or more flexibly in administrative contracts. The objection was still the same as what I said here, that the things that are regulated by law are certainly more secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U214	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U215	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I, too, have seen all kinds of Erasmus students, and this procedure, it is a full priority in the European Union, it will never be taken away, it will only be added. But I have the impression that it is simply educational tourism. You will learn the same things in another country that you would study at your bachelor's level in English. There is no new quality other than being able to have drinks with students from another country and to have a good time. Perhaps Europe will be introduced, but it is possible to buy a boat ticket, a bus ticket, a train ticket, a museum. Do we make any sense in such ideological English-linguizing? I don't think it's going to suffer any criticism at all, all this Erasmus-Jacking, bachelor-level. Let's talk about doctoral level, there's an idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U216	Yeah, I get your question, it's actually about the mobility of these students. And what's to deny, there really is how to say, untargeted implementation very much. This draft does not in any way prohibit or restrict, say, student mobility or the mobility of teaching staff, but it does take him out of the criteria for performance funding. Mobileity cannot be an end in itself. And the same thing you said when you brought these negative examples, and they certainly are not few, these very negative examples may have largely come from the fact that this mobility has been fully cultivated and recommended, whether it benefits learning outcomes or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U217	Thank you. No further questions. Let's move on to the co-report. I call Signe Kivi, member of the Committee on Culture, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U218	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu dealt with the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, initiated by the EKRE Group, in three sessions: on 8 March Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, on 2 and 3 May, only the procedural decisions were taken by Jaak Valge, vice-president of the committee. During the last two meetings of the Commission, Mr Jaanus Kariliid, Mr Aivar Viidik, took part in Aadu Black as alternate member, Ms Kristina Šmigun-Vähi as alternate member, and Ms Anneli Ott was Marko Šorin's alternate member. Kristi Raudmäe, Head of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Research, and Legal Adviser at the Legal Policy Department, Maarja-Liisa Vahi, were invited. I will summarise here the debate in committee, in which Signe Kivi, Margit Sutrop, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Aivar Viidik and, of course, the author of the draft, Jaak Valge took part in the protocol. I will be very brief as Jaak Valge made a very thorough review of the Ministry's positions, which were also expressed in their letter of 14 February. It was stressed that there would be no support for level-of-study thresholds for cross-university curricula. It was stressed that the proportion of internationalisation will be agreed on the basis of higher education institutions in administrative contracts, as the situation, need and practice vary widely between universities and the approach of the higher education institution itself could still apply. However, special attention will be given to doctoral studies and there will be a point in designing where a doctoral graduate will be prepared for at least B2 language proficiency in Estonian. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, the restrictions at the level of the law set out in the draft do not guarantee an increase in the quality of education or increase the link with the labour market. Jaak White argued against the fact that quality should be measured by other means, which may include professional skills and ability after graduation. He pointed out that he considered the problem of Estonian higher education to be a huge drop in quality, and the indirect figures he presented proved this. He added that there was a problem with students going abroad to study, and he pointed out that in his opinion, even if they were going, this could in many cases simply mean spending time. However, Mr White agreed that the external semester is necessary and welcome to improve the quality of learning and to broaden the horizon, but that the mobility of students is of no importance when determining performance funding. On this point, Kristi Raudmäe pointed out that, in fact, finding quality indicators in a measurable form in higher education is a challenge for all countries. Quality is assessed through both evalvation of science and institutional accreditation. It is clear that problem issues are also being influenced through funding. For example, an indicator of foreign students has already been deleted, as it is really no longer an issue that needs to be influenced by funding. Signe Kivi, the discussion of the speaker before you was focused on the understanding that the concerns of the initiators of the draft for the protection of the Estonian language are quite understandable. I proposed that I may find a common part in the establishment of Estonian-language education in the Republic of Estonia from early childhood education in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. This could be the first step. I also stressed that I think there are many places in the Republic of Estonia where the protection of the Estonian language needs to be carried out much more seriously than in universities, and we could all stand up for it. I did not agree with the statement that mobility was somehow a simple form of spending time and that the Erasmus programme was out of date. I brought examples of this from the Academy of Arts, where feedback from students who have spent a semester at a selected foreign university is very good, as is feedback from students who come to us, very positive. I would also stress that the Academy of Arts teaches both Estonian language and the history of Estonian culture and [Estonia], and would do so more if we could fund this project more. Margit Sutrop spoke at both meetings. It also disagreed with the argument set out in the explanatory memorandum regarding the drop in quality of universities. He found that there were no data or studies showing that rapid English language would lead to a drop in quality. The decline in quality is, if it is, complex. In many respects, it is a concern of general education schools, which is indeed passed on to universities that are going to make mistakes. Sutrop stressed and pointed out that the fall in the quality of higher education is certainly affected by the overall state of funding. But English-linguism is guaranteed by universities' desire to be on the map of the world, in the international landscape, and it also comes a little bit from the fact that, under the current funding conditions, it is the only possibility for universities to include private money. So, in his view, the removal of this restriction should be dealt with rather than the restriction of English-language education. Margit Sutrop added that in addition to earning money, universities have a strong incentive to create an open learning environment, provide students with both communicative and cultural competences, as well as language skills. In addition to funding, the shortage of students is a major problem, as is the continuing problem of duplication of disciplines, which could be addressed by the organisation of the higher education landscape. Margit Sutrop asked the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research whether it was known how many graduates of Estonian upper secondary schools went to study at foreign universities. Do you think that if the number of English-language curricula is reduced in Estonia, Estonian students will go even more to other universities? Kristi Raudmäe replied that, unfortunately, there are no data on Estonian students abroad. This is interesting information, I think, but we could still have this data. But these data, which are, show that the proportion of students who continue at the Estonian University immediately after graduating from upper secondary school is really decreasing year by year. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits intervened in the discussion, who also admitted that she understood the willingness of the initiators to increase the volume of learning in Estonian, but found that the wording of the bill was as if it were fighting against English-speaking and rather thought of the importance of learning in Estonian and increasing its volume, then this sense of foreign hatred would disappear from the draft. But reducing student mobility is not the solution. Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits also considered that the draft was actually linked to the issue of funding higher education and that political will was needed to find a solution. Kristi Raudmäe replied that the Ministry of Education and Research was going to discuss the budgetary strategy of the country with a higher budget request. At the same time, the Ministry is preparing an amendment to the Higher Education Act, which would increase student ownership and make the use of money more efficient. There is a proposal to limit the opportunities for multiple studies at the same level of higher education, as well as to extend the time that can then be re-entered into university and these measures are still in place. I know that the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, has already responded to an inquiry into these proposed measures. Helle-Moonika Helme said that the purpose of the bill is not to fight against anyone, but it is essential not to lose a high-quality Estonian language in higher education, and the Estonian language must not go back to the level of the cuisine language. Helle-Moonika Helme, however, found that the points of internationalisation were at some point very necessary and have also brought quality to Estonian higher education. You can only agree with that. Helle-Moonika also found that the amendments to the draft do not really take on the need for more reform. The initiators of the draft act took the view that the mission of universities was to promote science and culture and that the quality of education had to be taken into account in funding. However, universities do not need to support internationalisation at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer and promote the international mobility required by the current Higher Education Act. Jaak Juske also found that chronic underfunding for higher education was a fundamental problem. He thought that if funding for universities decreased from year to year and universities were forced to tighten and close free curricula in Estonian, this bill would be of no use as long as there was no political agreement to move back to 1.5% of GDP in higher education funding. He also pointed out that he had the impression that the author of the draft had taken the word "international" out of the current law because the electorate of the Estonian Conservative People's Party did not like the word. This was followed by the Helle-Moonika protest. In his opinion, Ms Purga referred to the non-supporting position of the Ministry of Education and Research and asked what potential risks could be for universities if the draft was adopted as a law. Kristi Raudmäe replied that setting the percentages mentioned in § 1 of the bill would make the work of universities quite difficult and that the reasons for learners in foreign language curricula are very different. There are programmes for generating income, so-called export programmes, but there are also necessary areas where there are not enough Estonian students to open a study group. The problems with doctoral studies are even more complicated, as universities should give up a very large number of doctoral students. The Ministry of Education and Research is trying to solve the problem with other measures, through administrative agreements, and this position has also been heard repeatedly in this Chamber today. Aivar Viidik referred to the explanatory memorandum to the draft, which says that 21% of foreign students who graduated from 2005 to 2016 have remained in Estonia, but 26% already in 2016. According to the explanatory memorandum, foreign students cannot stay in Estonia because they have not mastered Estonian well enough. He asked the initiator whether, if foreign students acquired more Estonian, the initiators of the draft would agree that Estonia should stay and stay and live more. Distributors' representative Jaak Valge replied that Estonian universities should prepare foreign students in the fields and competences required by Estonian society and the Estonian labour market. It is quite elementary to prefer that the person prepared for the account of the Estonian taxpayer stays in Estonia. Mr Karilaid then proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the vote on the procedural decisions be postponed to the next sitting. He found the debate to be very important in the Riigikogu. Therefore, the following day, 3 May this year, the Commission took three decisions. First, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 10 May. The proposal was adopted by consensus. I will also read the names of the members of the committee: Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Jaanus Karilaid, Signe Kivi, Anneli Ott, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Aivar Viidik. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. There were 8 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed, with Jaak Juske abstentions. And thirdly, on the proposal of Jaak White to appoint Signe Kivi as the representative of the commission, the decision was taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U219	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions. In that case, let's get to the negotiations. Priit Onions first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U220	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, Having heard the rapporteur, the debate and the Commission's rapporteur in this Chamber, I am absolutely convinced that this very good draft can be improved together. And it seems to me that this request and the will is at least what concerns me and I feel that our party and the initiator of the bill are quite similar, even though it may have seemed that someone might want to nail somewhere, not Aadu Black this time. I think it is quite clear that the purpose of this draft is not to fight English-speaking, just as I was somewhat impressed when I read it, but when I listened to Jaak White and his answers and Helle-Moonika's protest in the committee, I realized that this request certainly did not exist in this form. Our understanding, too, is that this is not about combating internationalisation or English, but, above all, about having a high level of higher education in Estonian and how it can be built so that it does not interfere with each other. During this debate, too, there was an understanding that we have been one of the initiators of a system that we have today in higher education, thanks to taxpayers, but certainly it is far from the ideal of seeing this idea in our own time, so that Estonian taxpayers can have higher education free of charge in Estonian. In reality, it has developed so that universities have increased the proportion of English-language curricula, unfortunately at the expense of Estonian-language students, based on their own interests. This certainly was not a vision and an understanding that would suit us, but certainly in this context this draft will help us closer to the ideal. It is quite clear that there are currently two important problems in higher education. One is the problem of the Estonian language, which, in this draft, has a significant solution, and the other is, as I asked Jagu, that the question is not just how we formulate things in the law, but whether they will find finance for it. If the Ministry and the Minister say that they have understood this concern too, then we actually know that administrative agreements between universities and the state have not been concluded. It's extraordinary. It's never happened before. It is clear that the universities, by the mouth of the rectors, have reiterated that they cannot do so in this form, because this volume of administrative contracts proposed by the state in its current form would not allow them to [give] higher education in such a way as to be at the expense of a loss of quality and therefore cannot be accepted as such. The question is, how do we find the means? And from the state budget, we need to contribute further to higher education, because, as we were talking about, we had a discussion that the resources from 1.5% had fallen significantly to higher education, and we were unable to do so. But as I said, the ideal should be that no one, at least me and we, has a problem if universities are able to finance themselves and this English-language education is not carried out [out] in order to co-finance higher education, but certainly it cannot and cannot be at the expense of higher education in Estonian. In our own political party and council, we have also adopted a rapprochement with the Council of Rectors when we met that if everyone in Estonia understands the priority of teacher pay, but that we have lecturers earn less today than teachers, that is, people who have to teach teachers... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U221	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U222	... their pay is lower than that of teachers, then surely there is a need to raise the salaries of lecturers, co-professors, professors. As our party, we see that the lecturer's salary should be at least twice the Estonian average and the professor should have four times the Estonian average salary. And if you have to, you have to take out a loan. Surely we are thinking above all of those professors who teach in Estonian. And there must certainly be the taxpayer's [money] in which we must find these funds. If we need to bring professors from somewhere else, it must come from the expense of English-speaking learners or from somewhere else, the wages of foreign-language curricula and professors are certainly not a matter for the Estonian taxpayer. If we could get these questions settled nicely together, I think this bill could go forward at a fast pace and in order. So we support the completion of the first reading of this draft and the ongoing debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U223	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U224	Honor the President of the sitting! Good Riigikogu! Good higher education people! If you give this bill a first look, it feels like it is a step in the right direction. But if you look into this bill and the explanatory statement, it looks like a pig and a cuckoo have been put together in one of the drafts. I think that our concern for the future of higher education in Estonian is that we have a common concern in this Chamber, which joins the Riigikogu, all the political groups. And I think this is a perfectly worth considering proposal to fix the so-called minimum numbers for higher education in Estonian in law. This could be further discussed. But the following paragraphs of this draft are clearly in a direction that the Social Democrats cannot support. As has already emerged from the minutes of the Committee on Culture, I said in the Commission that it seems that the initiator of the draft, the draft author of the draft, has taken up our law on higher education and the word 'international' in different forms from there. Indeed, such open, modern, communicating with the world Estonia is, unfortunately, quite foreign to the average EKRE electorate, and all its foreign influences seem to them to be the devil. That is why it is natural for the EKRE to present such drafts here. But undoubtedly becoming the law of this bill would be a very bad sign from Estonia to the whole world, because international contacts are part of modern, high-quality European, Western university education and Estonia is part of the Western education system and Western value area. We can argue about whether international contacts are a goal or a tool for the university, but it is a natural part of modern open Western higher education. And indeed, as the previous speaker said, this draft does not actually solve the main problem of Estonian higher education, which is increasing and chronic underfunding. If our higher education received 1.5% of GDP a few years ago, today this percentage is already approaching one. And it is still extremely scandalous that we already have the third month in which public universities are not prepared to enter into administrative contracts with the Ministry, the Estonian state, because with this financing model, our university education is no longer competitive and it is the free Estonian-language higher education that has been hit. That's the same problem that's adding us up in this hall. I hope that, now that we are about to discuss the budgetary strategy of the country in the coming years or the draft state budget for next year, it is precisely funding higher education, sustainable funding, increasing it is an issue that will also be on the agenda in the Riigikogu and which will really find the votes of support from all political groups, be it government or opposition. If we also look at the latest proposals of the Minister of Education and Research, the Ministry has come up with proposals that mean cutting free Estonian-language learning, such a quiet transition towards paid higher education. Let us be honest, the way in which English curricula have increased is precisely because universities are underfunded. This problem can, in particular, be solved by channelling additional money into such a much-needed sector. I think that, although this draft EKRE has very serious disadvantages for our group, the debate on this subject is very commendable, and precisely the future of higher education in Estonian is what will also make us support the continuation of the draft procedure. But once again, it is more important to find extra funding for universities, higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U225	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U226	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to say that the Reform Party cannot support this draft in this form and does not consider it meaningful to set such figures, but the debate on the quality of higher education welcomes at all. Now, why can't you support me? First of all, as Jaak Valge, the rapporteur said, there is no such link that rapid English-speaking would have led to a drop in the quality of universities, in fact, a direct indication. There are no studies, no such association can be shown. I think it is even worse: in fact, it is not quite objectively possible to say that this is a quick English-speaking process, because it is all very relative, which we consider to be fast and what is the objective we want at all. The numbers themselves show nothing in the sense that if we say we have a 10% share of foreign students now, this is actually a relatively small number. I myself am advising a number of German universities who are making a major effort to obtain the status of the university of Excellency in order to make the share of foreign students 20%. They consider it very important that many foreign students should be enrolled in master's studies, but also in doctoral studies, because it is a hunting of brains, it is also an opportunity to disperse their science internationally around the world. These are people who are cultural ambassadors. In order to increase the role of German, for example, it is considered to be very important. After all, we would also like to take more of our Estonian language and Estonia to the world map. I would also like to say the third argument why it cannot be supported in this way. The Ministry of Education and Research itself has already contributed to this discussion, and indeed it is important that the internationalisation of universities does not simply take place in quantitative terms, but that we have high-quality foreign students, that there is an increase in demandingness, and that there is also an Estonian language and culture module in English-language curricula, so that our students can learn Estonian, integrate into society, as well as a part of our language and culture, if they do not stay in work, because that is not the goal that they all stay here. I would also like to say that I would like to congratulate and thank our universities and universities of applied sciences, who have made a huge effort in recent decades to promote internationalisation at all in universities. It hasn't come of itself. When I think about how the National University acted in Tartu as a closed city where foreign visitors could only come for one day and by evening they had to leave this city, how was it possible to do international science and succeed there? I remember how Yuri Lotman's anniversary was about Lotman getting invitations to go abroad all the time, but he had to cancel them all because he couldn't get a visa to go anywhere. When I myself went to study at the University of Konstanz, it was a very great opportunity for me, after a short study in Oxford and Oslo, to acquire a doctorate at the University of Germany for free and study in a curriculum that was German-speaking, but to finish with an English-language doctoral thesis. I think it's not quite right what Jaak White says that learning in native language gives the best quality. You have to know your native language and think in depth in your own language, of course, but it certainly gives you a lot more if you can learn in an international environment if you have language skills. We also recall that the upbuildings of the Estonian state were all multilingual. They may have had a native language other than Estonian, such as Jaan Poska, for example, Russian, and yet they were able to carry these ideals very highly. So it's not that one-to-one relationship. And now I want to say a few words to this discussion. Signe Kivi has already passed on the discussion in a very long and thorough manner in our committee, but perhaps the main argument that I would like to say here... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U227	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U228	... that the most problematic part of this draft is saying that universities do not need to promote internationalisation at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer and that foreign students are needed, but only if they so-called contribute to our labour market. I would like to object to the fact that perhaps this discussion has often become jealous in the press as well. In fact, foreign students are needed for a wide range of reasons and I will quickly bring out eight reasons why they are actually needed. [Firstly,] Science and higher education based on it are international. Openness and the free movement of ideas are the basis for all spiritual enrichment, science and higher education. Secondly, students who have studied here, who have not only gone to work here, but are going to live elsewhere afterwards, are our ambassadors. They are ambassadors in the world, they are taking the Estonian language, culture and also our country and politics to the world of understanding, and this is what we are seeing at the moment during the Ukrainian war to a very, very significant extent. Thirdly, through international curricula, we really enrich the Estonian labour market. These figures are very different. It is 38% in ICT, 41% in engineering, 35% in industry, for example. This is a very important contribution, and we have a huge shortage of labour. Fourthly, Estonian students are happy to study in international curricula. Indeed, as far as higher education is concerned, only 60% of graduates of our upper secondary school now continue in Estonian higher education institutions. Our potential students go abroad a lot. One way to leave them here is to let them acquire it here not only in Estonian, but why not also in English, leave the roots in Estonian soil, because after attending the English lecture they go to the Estonian theatre, read the Estonian book, communicate with Estonian people and consume Estonian media. This is a very good opportunity to give Estonian students the opportunity to be in their cultural space, but to acquire cultural and linguistic competence. Fifthly, foreign language curricula bring us additional resources, but not enough, often we pay for it. The possibility of obtaining students is actually important everywhere, but in many disciplines Estonia also lacks student candidates. Very few top specialists are needed. For example, in my field of study, philosophy, we need a few people with a doctorate, a lot of students in the baka, but it's very healing that we also get international students at the master's. Seventh, it increases the quality of education. Teaching students about other cultures will make the lecturer work harder and this is very important. I remember how a Chinese student, while studying in English, ran to me after a lecture and thought that she would get as in England after another hour of consultation, so what would she have to do now? They are often very much more demanding than Estonia's own students. This is all enriching, and I think that we should therefore not be so narrow-minded and should support this openness and internationalisation, doing so to a reasonable extent and certainly ensuring quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U229	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 502 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U230	Today's fifth item is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid 562. This is a first reading. Raimond Kaljulaid, a member of the Riigikogu, should present the bill here, but he signaled to us that it would take him a few minutes. Let's wait a few minutes. I'm not taking a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U231	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U232	We'll be fine. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U233	No, I have a call in my chest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U234	Now, please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U235	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to you. I have a small sports injury, and that's why I was slower than I imagined. But it is more pleasant to be here before you to talk about such an important draft, which we have initiated with socialist ambassadors and which concerns the amendment of the Income Tax Act. In fact, we are living in a number of extraordinary times. If you look at macro-economic indicators, unfortunately, we are, on the one hand, at a stage where the economy is cooling down. Economic growth, which has been in recent years, is turning into a recession. Many sectors of the economy have already faced difficulties as a result of the kroon virus crisis, and this has now been compounded by the difficulties caused by high energy prices. In addition, we are faced with a situation where war has begun in Europe. And both this war and the sanctions imposed by the European Union, in turn, have an impact and a price. This is also very clear in our people's livelihood. The rapid rise in prices, which has already been discussed several times in this Chamber. The latest inflation figures show that prices have risen by 20%. This still means that basically one fifth of people's income and savings have vanished into thin air. Very many households, of course, above all those who already lived below the poverty line or at its borders, especially when we talk about the elderly, the elderly living alone, families with children, who have already had a difficult time, are, of course, even more difficult to make ends meet. But this rapid increase in prices also affects all the families we could say that they are able to cope with, forming a middle class in Estonia, but nevertheless the current economic situation is extremely difficult for them. If we now think about the situation we are in in terms of security, I think we all understand that it is extremely important to maintain, protect and support the unity and coherence of Estonian society in all respects. This is more important than ever in the last three decades. That is why we have proposed one possible solution for supporting Estonian families, the people of Estonia in the current difficult situation, in order to give people the opportunity to cope better. Several colleagues have made different proposals in this direction. We will soon be talking, for example, about reducing consumption taxes. This draft is probably on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, and I think it will also be an important debate. Our proposal is based on a very important principle, and this fundamental position is as follows. Although it is very important that we have a system of social benefits, a system of income support and help for those in need, the majority of people in Estonia want to live up to the salary they have earned with honest work. Salary must be enough to live, feel financially secure, train your children to have a roof over your head and be covered with daily expenses. Similarly, the elderly in Estonia do not want to depend on the one-time generosity of the government or the municipality, the gesture that is being made towards them, but their expectation is that the pension earned during the life of the work will be enough to cope. That is why we have directed our own solution to increasing the income of the Estonian people. When we are talking, for example, about our fellow Members' proposal, to which we will come somewhat later, it aims to reduce costs. But our goal is precisely to increase revenue. How do we do that? This draft and this tax amendment are largely made up of three easy-to-understand parts. The first of these concerns the so-called tax-free minimum, i.e. that part of human income is wage income, pension income, which is not subject to income tax. It's 500 euros today. If you recall, the tax-free minimum was raised to EUR 500 years ago. In the meantime, wages, pensions, expenses have increased significantly, and there have been major changes. But the line that was pulled down was the government, which included the Centre Party, the Fatherland, the Social Democrats who carried out the tax reform, has remained unchanged. Our first proposal, and this proposal, we have made several times in this Chamber in the past, is to raise the tax-free minimum. We have proposed EUR 654 as this limit, which is today's minimum wage.. yes, it is perhaps somewhat symbolic, so that the minimum wage is exempt from income tax. If my fellow Members have other proposals, I do not know that it could be EUR 750 or EUR 1000 or EUR 520, let's talk about this, we can all propose amendments, but this is a fundamental first part of our proposal to raise the tax-free minimum for people in reality, for all those whose wages are subject to a tax-free minimum at all. We know that the tax-free minimum for people earning the highest income in Estonia falls to zero at one point, which is at the end of the tax hump. For all those who benefit from a tax-free minimum, this means a direct increase in income. The second part of this reform that we are proposing is to raise the start of this so-called tax hump. Perhaps now, as from the EUR 1200 income, the tax-free minimum begins to decrease until it reaches zero at one point, our proposal is to raise the start of this hump to EUR 2000. It is the same here that it can be argued, perhaps colleagues have proposals that it should be, I don't know, EUR 1894 or perhaps EUR 2201 or something like that. Let us think about where this right line should be at the prices and salaries of 2022. But I'm sure he should be a lot higher than today's line. Let me give you an example. Today we all know that there is a great problem in Estonia with the lack of teachers. The lack of teachers affects not only rural areas, which were spoken of a long time ago, but, in fact, it is very difficult to find teachers in schools in large cities. The average salary of teachers has increased to the extent that the teacher is already such a highly paid employee here in the Republic of Estonia that his income tax-free minimum will be reduced. Perhaps the teacher will have to pay a higher rate of income tax. After all, this is a rather unreasonable situation, if we think about it, it is not a super-paid employee of any kind. On the contrary, teachers' salaries should increase further, their ratio to average wages should improve. So the second part of our proposal is, in simple Estonian, that we bring teachers out from under the tax hump, that we bring a large proportion of Estonian workers out from under the hump so that their income is not reduced due to the tax formula. And the third part, which is inextricably linked to raising the start of this same hump, is to make this hump a little smoother, which means that the way in which the income tax-free minimum begins to decrease does not happen as sharply as in the current calculation. This would also help, for example, nurses, midwives, whose average salary is quite high in Estonia, more than 2,000 euros, but a slightly higher hump would mean that they would retain most of their income. Very briefly [in total], it leaves more money to people. More money for which they can cover the effects of price increases and see for themselves where they spend it. What is the great advantage of the measure we are proposing, I think, of proposals such as the reduction of excise duties or the reduction of VAT on certain goods, which can be discussed? In the current situation, I think these ideas are relevant and in this sense there is certainly no point in rejecting them from the table. But what's the big advantage? We know from the experience of other countries and other economies that if we cut VAT by a certain percentage, this does not automatically mean that prices will fall equally. Or if we reduce excise duties on fuel to a certain amount, this does not automatically mean that all this benefit reaches the buyer of the fuel. Some of this money goes missing on the road. If we lower our income tax, we won't lose a cent. People get that money into their account, it reaches 100% of them. There, in turn, will also be a return to consumption through it, especially when we are talking about people on lower wages, with average wages, that a large part of their income will be spent on domestic goods and services right here in Estonia, or at least on purchases made here, even if these goods have been introduced into the country, and through it will also be returned to the state budget as taxes. What else is, I think, important for our proposal? If we compare this with, for example, the proposal to reduce excise duties, which has been made by ladies and gentlemen, then, for example, in the case of the reduction of excise duties on fuel, we all realise that it is the people with the highest fuel consumption that will benefit most, that is, the wealthier people with the most powerful cars with higher engine capacity, who will consume more fuel, who may have two cars in the family, not one or none, right, they will win more proportionally than that. Our proposal, on the contrary, is very, I think, the right way forward in this respect: in this respect, the winners are, above all, the people whose incomes are lower, the average. And it is certainly easier for people with high incomes who find it easier to make changes in their consumption within their incomes in the current crisis to cope with these price increases, which does not mean that it is easy. I think a lot of people are complicated. This is briefly the idea of the changes we have proposed. In summary, which I would emphasise: yes, this draft has been initiated, it addresses this current economic situation, that is clear. On the other hand, what I like more about this idea is [is] that it is not the kind of temporary solution that we put together here and then, when the crisis is over, maybe it will not be necessary or will have to change it back. It's still an inevitable decision, I think, anyway. I think that if this Riigikogu composition fails to do so, it will not be able to reach new agreements on income tax, then it will be in the way we have proposed or in any other way, such as the transition to progressive income tax, then the next Riigikogu membership will have to deal with it. Sooner or later, this tax-free minimum will have to be increased anyway. Sooner or later, you're gonna have to move that hump, or you're gonna have to reform that hump, or you're not gonna get away with it. In this sense, I think, the strength and advantage of this draft is that we are making a decision today and, thanks to this, we will do it in a more timely manner, now that we may have more opportunities and even more room for debate than we have in the future. With this, I would like to finish my introduction, my introduction, and I am happy to answer your questions as long as we still have time for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U236	But I have a question for the waitress: are we going to do this so that we can finish the sitting and do the questions tomorrow or try to squeeze in four minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U237	If we have four more minutes of working time, maybe Mr Sierdi, whose question is first, will be able to answer, but the rest of the questions will be put on the agenda tomorrow. Mr Odints's question, I understand, is so thorough that it cannot be answered in four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U238	Here's what we're gonna do. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U239	Honourable waitress! When this exponentially decreasing tax system was declared, so were the participants, [it] was accompanied by such insolent embellishment. 86% of the Estonian people will win the new tax system, 86% of the taxpayers will win the new tax system. How's that for today? As we know, the reference point at EUR 1760 is compared to the tax system that was in force recently under the rule of Taavi Rõivas and where the overall tax-free rate was EUR 180. How about this? How many winners are there in this new tax experiment and how many losers compared to the system that existed in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U240	Thank you. Mr Sõerd, as you know, political parties do not always get 100% of what they want. I remember, for example, that before the previous parliamentary elections, the Reform Party had the promise to establish a EUR 500 tax-free minimum evenly for everyone, regardless of the person's income. Well, now you've been in government for a little over a year and you've been there with the Central Party. I have not seen the government's initiative to reform this tax system in any way. Of course, the Social Democrats have always supported and continue to support classical graduated income tax. At the time, such a political compromise was reached with parties in the government. It is a mathematical fact and fact that a large part of the Estonian people have won it financially, that they have received more money in their bank accounts. You can't deny that. I would like to conclude by saying, how do you imagine that we would have the same date today, I don't remember what the income tax-free minimum of Taavi Clothes was, EUR 210 or something like that [tax-free minimum]? Do you really think it would be fair for us, for example, to take the EUR 250 monthly income from the EUR 40 tax already? Well, I don't think that's fair. The fact that the Reform Party in this matter sat like this under its knees, did nothing, lashed his hand and said that there was nothing to be done in my opinion it was wrong. It was the courage and political will of the government in its own time to carry out tax reform to increase the income of the Estonian people, for which I certainly recognise this government. In details, yes, of course, maybe no one was happy with it until the end. But the current government does nothing at all, nothing about taxes. I think it's a real shame. If we also look at the extra budget, the prices are rising, people are having a very difficult time, then there is nothing being done to help people again. I think this government of non-something-making that is now is much worse than this government that dared to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-10_U241	Thank you. We have less than a minute left in the sitting, and I will not be able to take the next question. We will proceed tomorrow with the questioners we have, and we will close the hearing for today.
