ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the VII plenary session, and it is now possible to pass on drafts and referrals. Please! Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of 18 members of the EKRE Group, I will address an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue concerns the loss of personnel in the field of defence. In the 11 months of last year, i.e. from 1 January to 1 December, 412 active troops, 101 officers, 232 officers, 79 soldiers and, in addition, 184 national defence civilians were released from military service. Thus, the total loss of personnel was 596 in the 11 months of last year. The loss of personnel to this extent is unprecedented in the history of our national defence, and this 412 accounts for 11.6% of the target number of the number of active troops in 2021 planned in the National Defence Development Plan 2017 to 2026, which was 3560. When new active troops are also taken into active service, they are inevitably young people who have no experience of service and have no experience of war, who are unable to replace the deceased so soon. It is not possible to take people in active employment who do not have the appropriate qualifications. 57 active troops were laid off, 69 active troops did not have an extension of the active service contract, 46 unvaccinated active troops were fired with coronavir, and an unknown number left themselves because of this pressure. All of this has led us to have 14 questions for the Prime Minister, because it generally concerns the political decisions and policies of the government that have been taken. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U3	No further drafts and enquiries are recommended, and we will decide on the further processing of such enquiries within the Bureau, in accordance with the rules of procedure. All right, now the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U4	81 members of the Riigikogu registered. Mr Kunnas, I understand that you actually want to take this speech down, don't you? Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Kallas on the state of the electricity market and I would like to draw your attention to the way in which we deal with it. First, the Prime Minister has up to 30 minutes to make a statement. Then each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask the Prime Minister an oral question, and I will open negotiations. During the negotiations, it is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak. Please, Madam Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U6	Good President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! High energy prices are a serious concern for all of us. People are shocked when they get their bills. And that's perfectly understandable. However, any solution to the problem begins with an analysis of the causes. So before we start talking about solutions, let's look at the big picture of why we're even here where we are. Firstly, Estonia does not have enough electricity or transmission capacity from cheap or renewable energy sources to allow cheap electricity to move to our market area. The cheapest electricity comes from wind farms, both onshore and offshore wind parks, then hydropower, then nuclear power and cogeneration plants. Oil shale and coal plants and natural gas plants already offer energy significantly more expensive. The price difference may vary several to tens of times. Secondly, the biggest part of the increase in electricity prices has undoubtedly been the price of natural gas. It is natural gas that is the source of energy for a large part of Europe. At the same time, Russia has significantly reduced gas supply to Europe and as a result the wholesale price of natural gas increased fourfold in 2021, i.e. 400%. The experts estimate that if Russia increased gas supply to Europe by 20%, the price of natural gas would fall by about half. At the same time, we know the security situation now around Russia and Ukraine. We can talk more about that tomorrow. Thirdly, Europe has fewer production capacities than it needs. We've been busy closing old stations, but building new ones is more expensive, slower and more complicated. Therefore, the deficiency is aggravated. Today, we need to see what can help us get on with this difficult situation. For me, it is important that we do not miss this crisis, but implement solutions that will not allow the same thing to happen again in a year, two and ten. Yes, there are no very fast energy solutions. But if we don't make the big picture decisions, we'll be back in the same place soon. Last Thursday, we discussed the state of the electricity market in the government and identified a number of bottlenecks that we are now working on. Firstly, environmental protection imposes a number of restrictions on the development of new production capacities, but the coexistence of nature and windmills is possible. To this end, the government instructed the ministries to present an analysis and proposals on land areas where wind power production equipment could be built in the first quarter of this year, taking into account conservation and altitude constraints. This would help the wind-energy developers to move forward if they knew in advance which areas could be considered for the development of projects. Of course, the consent of the local community is still necessary. Secondly, like the whole world, Estonia is struggling with a non-my-backyard problem. In general, people may have a positive attitude toward renewable energy, but they do not want to see windmills near their home. That is why we have developed an element of local benefit that we are discussing in the government office this week. This should increase the interest of local authorities and communities in renewable energy and also speed up planning procedures. Thirdly, sea wind parks are less disturbing to people because they are farther away. There are at least seven gigawatts of wind energy potential in Estonian waters. But there are also protected areas at sea, security restrictions, favourable areas for fishing. It is therefore necessary to adopt a plan for the sea area, which would solve the issue of where sea wind parks can be built, and would also provide an opportunity for the development of new production capacities. The establishment of the plan of the Estonian maritime area in the Riigikogu awaits the adoption of the construction code and the related amendment of other laws. If the Riigikogu adopts these laws, we can also build new wind farms at sea. Fourthly, energy storage is key to the green turn. Potential exists in Estonia, and technology prices have also fallen. In order to overcome bottlenecks, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing the same analysis and will come up with its solutions already in March 2022. Fifthly, nuclear power is the next cheapest source of energy after wind and hydropower. We do not know whether we can build a nuclear power plant in Estonia, whether it makes sense. Such analyses have been on hold for a long time, we decided to speed up these analyses and come up with them in the next few years. Sixthly, the problem has also been that many renewable energy capacities are behind grid connection. We also decided to take steps to speed up the process of accessions. First, if the network operators are independent of the producers, there is no doubt that it is not in their interest to merge additional capacity into the grid. We therefore wish to proceed with the ownership distinction between Eesti Energia and Elektrilevi. We decided that the deadlines for processing the application should be reduced, and we are discussing a legislative amendment according to which, in the case of producers of up to 200 kilowatts, network operators are obliged to sign up and take account of this network development obligation. This would address the concerns of large consumers, who have thought to create a renewable energy solution close to their consumption that would cover their energy needs. Seven. In recent months, we have seen a situation where Nord Pool's prices are cheaper in Finland and the Nordic region than in Estonia. This is due to the fact that connections between Finland and Estonia are loaded and no more electricity can pass through. To increase transmission capacity, we will move on to the third Estonian-Finnish connection, EstLink 3, which is expected to be completed by 2030. Eight, hydrogen is the energy element of the future. At the beginning of January, we decided to support the establishment of three European-wide hydrogen technology projects in Estonia, which hopefully will bring both additional investments and future technologies to help solve the energy crisis. Good listeners! The fact that we have been part of the Nordic electricity market has led to 40% lower electricity prices for Estonian households since 2016 until 2021 or even the second half of 2021 than on average in the European Union. These low prices have in some ways drugged our society. In resolving this crisis, we need to make sure that we do not throw the baby out of shock with washing water. It is clear that not everyone has the desire or the ability to impose consumption on the stock market. We therefore need to explain more about what risks and opportunities are in the choice of both fixed-price contracts and contracts with a fluctuating stock exchange package. In the case of exchange-price contracts, alongside very low prices, there is also a risk of very high prices and this risk can be mitigated by fixed-price contracts. But in order for people to enter into more fixed-price contracts, we need to create better opportunities for electricity sellers so that they can offer lower fixed prices to households. At the moment, domestic consumers can withdraw from fixed contracts at any time, which in turn does not motivate electricity sellers to offer cheaper prices. There is an electricity market law in the Riigikogu which specifies the conditions for withdrawal from contracts so that fixed-price contracts become cheaper for consumers. According to the electricity sellers, providing certainty would allow prices for fixed packages to be brought down by even EUR 20 per megawatt-hour. The sooner the Riigikogu adopts the Electricity Market Act, the sooner the more favourable fixed electricity prices reach people. A slightly longer solution is to get an agreement with Finland on the distribution of the bottleneck fee, which we already have with Latvia. If this agreement does not move quickly enough at technical level, I am prepared to address it at a higher political level. This would also enable fixed prices to be offered at a lower level. If the conditions were created by the Electricity Market Act, people would be able to stabilise their prices longer in order to avoid electricity price shocks in the next winter, as it is known that this situation will probably not go away for long. The operation of the electricity market is also directly linked to the European carbon price mechanism, or ETS, which I believe needs to be reviewed. Life has shown that the current solution is not the best and needs to be improved. It is understandable and bearable for the economy if the change in the price of the emissions trading system would be more planned, i.e. more linear, rather than the way it is now, recalling the American mountains. Dear Riigikogu! As I have stated, the long-standing low electricity prices have had a knock-on effect and the need to save energy has not been so topical. But the truth still holds that the cheapest electricity is saved electricity. We therefore need to see how we can help people themselves. This requires both energy saving measures and measures to build small-scale production to meet its needs. By 2022, most of the support measures planned in the European Union's recovery plan will be launched, with a total of more than 110 million for residential and apartment buildings. However, for housing and apartment buildings, we will launch energy efficiency measures for housing in the coming weeks: an energy efficiency measure for small houses and an emergency measure for energy efficiency of apartment buildings. We are looking for ways to quickly increase this volume, because these volumes are obviously too small compared to the interest that people have experienced. At the moment, the Housing Investment Fund is also in the process of negotiating with banks, but this can be discussed in more detail when there are already results. In addition, the Green Rotation programme for companies will amount to 220 million euros. Good listeners! These are all long-term solutions that will help people to secure themselves against price shocks in the future. But we cannot get over or around the fact that this price shock has hit both domestic and business consumers painfully at the moment. Since the government saw this shock coming, we already worked out measures in October to help people and business consumers. Firstly, we canceled the regular excise increases of the previous government. Secondly, we reduced the electricity grid fee by 50% for all consumers. Thirdly, we cut the gas network fee by 100% for all consumers. Fourthly, we made a targeted measure to compensate for 80% of the increase in electricity, district heating and gas prices to households with median income. The total cost of these measures is EUR 245 million. This is much more than the additional revenue from high energy prices in the state budget. For example, the value added tax (VAT) for energy carriers has been received by EUR 41 million last year. If this year's results or forecasts are calculated, it will be over 70 million. I'm sorry! Yes, 41 million have been transferred this year. As of now, Estonia's programme, the support programme to support Estonian domestic consumers and businesses is one of the most extensive, long-term and wider support programmes throughout Europe. Our programme should provide support in one way or another for all energy consumers. For 380000 households, we pay back the 80% increase in electricity and gas and heating bills. And for seven months, also retroactively from the beginning of September 2021 until the end of March this year. As you all know, we basically have two choices: either to give everyone a little bit or to target with greater support those who need this support more. By paying support to everyone, a quick procedure is a plus, just as we did with electricity and gas grid charges. However, if we want to help those who need more support on a larger scale, this will inevitably mean more work for both applicants and practitioners. The opinion has begun to spread as if it were unusual to apply for energy support. On the contrary, people are constantly communicating with the country through requests. The application must be made in order to receive a tax refund. The application must be made in order to receive child benefit. The application must be sent in order to apply to the local government for an interest education allowance or maintenance allowance. In the COVID crisis, companies also applied for wage support. Of course, it could be easier to apply for support in an ideal world, but it is now a matter of speed. The most important thing is for people to be able to apply quickly, receive grants quickly, and pay-out will not be behind a number of IT solutions that are being developed for months. The best municipalities, such as Tartu, have already handled a number of applications and even paid out grants to the first people. I encourage municipalities to act quickly and help their people. You can find more information about the grants from the Ministry of Finance's website krk.ee/energy. We have wished that a measure to mitigate energy price increases would help a very large number of people in Estonia. We will also give this support an opportunity and time to get to work. However, I would like to emphasise that, if it turns out that this is not helping enough, or the people who need support are excluded from this measure, we are ready to make improvements and changes. And I promise we will react quickly, as we have so far. As stated above, this measure will apply retroactively from September to March. Dear Riigikogu! All the actions and measures that I have listed for you, together with a good coalition partner, we have already decided to solve the energy crisis. I thank and congratulate the Centre Party for its work over these months. However, we have a common understanding in the coalition that these measures are not enough to get out of the crisis. We will therefore continue to work to offer relief to those who have been excluded from previous measures. Entrepreneurs. The sharp rise in energy prices has also hit businesses and other legal entities. We must therefore avoid the snowball effect arising from liquidity. We are also looking for these solutions among KredEx measures, such as a loan guarantee measure or additional measures for guarantee agreements. Support for additional liquidity needs of energy sellers and exceptional working capital loans are also under consideration to complement the existing system. Even today, we are discussing the cap on the electricity exchange price with the coalition partner and the zeroing of the network fee for companies. These are the steps that are additionally on the table and where we are looking for a common section. I would like to thank the Centre Party here for the fact that we have been able to make so many decisions over the past year to resolve crises. All ministers at the table have thought along and offered their solutions. It gives me optimism about the current situation. We know that solutions are born through discussions, by considering different facts and arguments and by making a substantial effort in the name of a common agreement. Finding solutions makes it more difficult when political media appearances become more important than substantive work at the negotiating table. These are the rules of the coalition government's game, and most solutions have been found to the concerns of Estonian people. We know from the past how to find consensus, and we still need that consensus. Good people's representatives! The whole of Europe and a considerable part of the world have been monitoring the shock and incredibleness of energy prices since autumn. This shock and shock have also become a startling reality on the accounts of many people and entrepreneurs in Estonia. It is all the more astonishing that only a few could predict such an increase for a long time. I assure you that the government will not leave the people of Estonia alone with this shock. No one needs to hurt the heart or lose sleep because of energy bills. The country will come to the aid of its people, both now and in the longer term. The concern of our people and our entrepreneurs is also a concern of the state. At the same time, we stand up for long-term solutions to reduce price shocks, ensure that all production capacities in Estonia are in order and boost the entry of new production capacities into the market. During the 30 years following the restoration of independence, Estonia has certainly come up with more difficult situations than the energy crisis we are facing today. Whether it is the withdrawal of Russian troops, the accession of the European Union and NATO to a limited window of time or a two-digit recession in the global financial crisis. Of all these difficulties, we were helped by moving towards a solution together and consistently and overcoming the political confrontation. The unique nature of the current situation is that we are intertwined by the energy and security crisis that culminates during a two-year exhausting health crisis. But we also come out of this predicament, as before, together, with the ultimate goal in mind. Our government is ready to discuss all the solutions to find a common part that will help us forward. I am convinced that in years' time, looking back to today, we can say that Estonia also emerged from this crisis as stronger, independent and more sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U7	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. You have many questions and these questions will be started by Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U8	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. You said in your speech that the government has quickly proposed solutions that all of this has come unexpectedly. In fact, Parliament already discussed the energy price crisis in September, including the problem of inflation. And now you're telling us... And obviously, the public says that the solutions you have proposed are clumsy, demeaning and, in fact, not sufficient. And you say you come to this hall and say you're going to work out solutions this afternoon. It's screamingly late. My question to you, Madam Prime Minister, is: why does the government not support the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity, heating and gas in order to reduce inflation? This is a measure that many European countries are doing to control inflation. Inflation has grown very fast. What is the government policy of the Republic of Estonia in controlling inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U9	Thank you. The steps we have taken have also had an impact on inflation. In fact, compensation for network charges, for example, has stifled inflation. I argue with you that we have not acted quickly or have somehow fallen asleep. If we actually compare our support measures with other countries, our support measures, if we compare in terms of volume in euro, we compare in terms of time, we compare in terms of the speed at which the measures are developed, or even in terms of scale, are competitive in all respects. So there's nothing to be ashamed of in this sense. Now, this support measure, which concerns helping people to compensate for 80% of the rise in people's heating, electricity and gas prices, actually started working only in January, but I would point out that it can also be applied for retroactively. And that's why some municipalities have been really good at Elva, Tartu, also from Saaremaa, this signal is that everything actually works, everything works. Then they've already been able to help people. And if we look, if I look at this statistics purely, how many people should get help, it is still the vast majority of the population that should get help. Now you say, and somehow you underestimate, that it is difficult to apply for support. For some reason, I am afraid that you have not tried to apply for this support to see if it is difficult or not. People have also written to me that they can do well to apply for this support, that it is not as difficult as it is spoken in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U10	Mr Reinsalu, if procedural, it is indeed procedural, because we have 23 colleagues in order, and if you are now essentially arguing, I very much hope that you will not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. My question to the Prime Minister was why the government does not support a reduction in VAT in order to reduce inflation. I actually didn't get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U12	Mr Reinsalu, you know this, as we all know in this Chamber, that we as members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask and respondents have the right to reply at their discretion. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U13	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You did a great deal of talking here about the future of energy and keeping it together in crises, but important details need to be resolved. Well, for example, single mothers working at multiple workplaces, such as nurses, customer service attendants, in fact a large number of frontline workers who work in many places on long shifts and raise their children as single parents, often because of long shifts, they also do so largely by telephone, but they do not qualify for social benefits in relation to high energy prices offered by the government, and precisely because they struggle to work in many jobs in order to live well and live on behalf of their children. Now they are in a situation where they work on the last wink so far, but now this income is largely taken away from them for energy-related payments, but they also do not qualify for subsidies. What do you say to these single mothers as Prime Minister, wife, mother, and supposedly empathetic person?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U14	Thank you. Your description is that exactly such people should receive support, because if you take as an example that you really have an average net income per person in your family less than EUR 1129 per month. In the case of single mothers with more than one child, for each household member aged at least 14 years, the same amount shall be multiplied by the proportion of children aged 0,5 and less than 14 years by a proportion of 0,3. For example, if there are two adults and two children under the age of 14, the income limit is 2365 euros. So these calculations can be made and children are taken into account here, so such people should still be compensated for 80% of their heating, gas and electricity bills. This measure is actually designed for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U15	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U16	Good manager! Prime Minister! I have to admit, honestly, it's embarrassing to hear you say a quick response. At the end of September, at the beginning of October, you told the people of Estonia that there would now be a support measure. The adoption of the support measure in Tallinn started on 17 January. By lunch yesterday, the reception in Tallinn had been completed by January, the order could be made by February. In order to receive support, it will be five months before the money has been spent, and then you will say that it is like the fastest in Europe. Well, one could look at Norway, which was able to do in December when it saw that the December measure was not working well, a new measure was taken on the weekend in January. And now you're saying there's something wrong with the Electricity Market Act. It is brought to the Riigikogu in September. Both the people of Eesti Energia and the people of Eesti Gaas have visited you twice. (The President: "A question! ") I know that Friday night at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications (Director: "Mr. Chef, Question!") One official was able to offer a solution that could actually work today. Why don't you come to the Riigikogu with these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U17	Thank you. Your accusations to Tallinn I would like to address to the Mayor of Tallinn. I think it is also very ugly that Tallinn, first, said that they would only start processing them on 17 January when it was clear that people were in trouble. Other municipalities, with whom, for example, the Minister of State regularly communicated during the development of this measure, were able to present their criticism earlier and were actually able to make their preparations. Tartu is a good example. By the time Tallinn had not yet started accepting grant applications, Tartu had already paid the grant to the first people. It's not like you can't. But all these reproaches will please be submitted to the city of Tallinn. We, too, changed this support measure. If you think that on 28 October we came up with this first package and we changed it at the end of December so that when it was originally intended for underinsured families, it was clear that it concerns the wider population, and it also concerns middle-income families, and that is why we changed this measure and raised this income to the median wage. And as I said, there are also children who are taken into account with a coefficient and, in summary, these figures can also be calculated on the website of the State Treasury. Now that you are taking this Norwegian measure, which everyone likes to give an example, yes, the Norwegian measure has its advantages, but they only concern electricity and they only have three months to deal with it, we have seven months to deal with the real and much wider population. We cannot compare, well, if we look at the different solutions in Europe, then there are really very different solutions, there is no one such unique, there are countries that are trying more to target to help those who need more support, there are countries that really give to everyone. Like I said, you have a choice, one is easier and faster, but the other allows more people to be helped. That when we made this network charge, which was for everyone, there were also very big complaints that it was so little, it did not help, it does not really help, if this bill is high, 80% of the price increase still helps families with median incomes to cope with these electricity bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U18	Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz is starting to grow in the hall, so let's try to take a little... Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U19	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 58 (1) of our Rules of Procedure provides: Members of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, the members of the Government of the Republic, the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General, the Secretary of State, the servants involved in the plenary session of the Riigikogu and the persons who have been invited by the President of the Riigikogu. The situation that there is probably no dispute that Kaja Kallas has not dared to come before the Riigikogu for quite a long time. Now he's come, and behind me is his security guard, who keeps an eye on me and the whole EKRE, so he doesn't screw up. But I understand that the fears of Kaja Kallas are great, and my question is this: has the President of the Riigikogu invited the security guards of Kaja Kallas to the Chamber to ensure his absolute security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U20	Mr. Grünthal! There are police officers in this hall every day. If you open your eyes, you'll see every day here police officers who guarantee and help to ensure order in this hall. Aivar Sõerd, please ask your question! Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U21	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu! Those of you who are policemen here are servants here who are allowed to be by law. But this is about Kaja Kallas' security guard. And I'm very uncomfortable knowing that someone here who's not a person in this house keeps a look in my back of my head. But I guess thanks, it's already gone. Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U22	I have to educate you again. I understand that this may be difficult to understand, but the security of the Prime Minister in the Republic of Estonia is guaranteed by the Police and Border Guard Board, just as the Police and Border Guard Board ensures the security of the Riigikogu. The Police and Border Guard Board shall decide on the specific staff who will perform which post at one time or another. Mr Grünthal, that was in this sense, I hope, a sufficiently clear answer to you, so we do not need to pay more attention to such issues and we can address the energy issue. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The measures and actions that you have sent us here are all necessary, correct and appropriate. So thank you! And it is very gratifying that you also addressed the subject of home renovation and brought it in. Indeed, paying off invoices cannot be a long-term and endless activity; next winter we will face the same problem. But renovation of homes allows significant savings in heating costs. I would like to ask whether we do not yet need separate measures, or a policy change, so that investments in these renovation subsidies and renewable energy solutions do not depend on the timetables for the implementation of the euro support and also bring national subsidies. Does this not require separate actions and perhaps a more aggressive policy change?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U24	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U25	Because the current pace is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U26	Thank you. That is a very correct point, as regards the fact that these measures are now also very much included in European money in the context of this green turn and in the context of the recovery facility. That is why, as I have also said, the current measures that have been agreed, which are now going to open up in the coming weeks, are of small size and need to be channelled into it, because people have started to think about it and people should also get that support from there. Now, my opinion is that, if we have the euro money for this, and actually, if I put together both business-oriented and consumer-oriented, it is nearly 400 million, then in any case, these funds should be used. And then, if we can do this from European funds, I think it is positive. But surely we need to think about a long-term solution. If we look at how many apartment buildings we have, including individual buildings that are not energy efficient, there is very much room for improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U27	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U28	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Yes, the support measures put in place have indeed been adopted very differently by the municipalities. The residents of Tartu have received compensation, those who have submitted applications, but Tallinn reports difficulties. This morning, Aivar Kokk, a good colleague in the Estonian Television morning programme, sent a message to the people that the Riigikogu should adopt only three amendments to the law and the concerns of the energy carriers of the population have been resolved from tomorrow. Really? Has the Riigikogu really failed to do its work and the solutions are so simple? Is that so with you, Prime Minister, and the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U29	Thank you. I know of two amendments to the law that have really been submitted to the Riigikogu and which are currently in the process and on which I would ask for urgent proceedings. The first is the same offer of fixed-price contracts for household customers for a year or so that people cannot withdraw from this contract the next day. What's the problem? The problem now is that because prices are fluctuating and we know that prices are lower in summer, people are fixing in difficult times, but at low prices are going back to the stock market package. This electricity seller has no assurance that he can actually distribute this price more evenly over months. And, indeed, I also had a meeting with the electricity sellers last week, they say that if this amendment to the law is adopted concerning fixed-price contracts, it is in the procedure of the Committee on Economic Affairs, if it is accepted, they are even prepared to offer a fixed price of EUR 20 to 30 per megawatt-hour at a lower price. This is remarkable, so it is certainly worth going on with. Another thing, which is a change, which, of course, is not a quick solution, but a change that awaits, the planning of sea wind parks awaits, it is changes to the construction code, but it does not bring the price down immediately. This amendment, which is currently pending in the Committee on Economic Affairs, could immediately be brought down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U30	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U31	Thank you! Prime Minister! You are proposing measures that will only generate revenue in many years' time, and then you are proposing a range of unsustainable subsidies, for which he cannot actually agree with the government and which create major bureaucratic problems. Neither is what the people expect. The people are looking forward to such measures that would lead to the cost of electricity in the coming months. How long will we continue to participate in this highly unstable energy market, which actually puts thousands of families in need at risk of their success? But it's probably a strange concern for you because your own family can handle it. But what is not a foreign concern to you: why are you also putting at risk the survival of your own government and the only time in your life, where fate has offered you the Prime Minister's seat? Don't you know any other way or you just don't dare? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U32	You are criticising the fact that we are talking about decisions that will only be useful in years' time. The fact that we are in this place and in front of this problem now is precisely because decisions have not been taken years ago. If we do not make these decisions now, which will generate revenue in years' time, then in years' time we will be in exactly the same situation and, as you say very well yourself: paying subsidies for a long time will not be sustainable. We just don't have the money to pay for everything. Now, the electricity market. You're criticizing it, but you don't bring any numbers or statistics. From 2016 until the second half of 2021, the prices of electricity consumers in Estonia have been 40% lower than in Central Europe, for example. Or take it, too, you don't like the European Union, take it outside the European Union, take Britain as an example. Their prices have been higher. We have been able to be a part of the Nordic electricity market and thanks to the fact that there is a lot of renewable energy, that renewable energy is cheaper at changing costs, so that such energy and electricity are cheaper and that has led to cheaper electricity. Now, yes, there is a price shock, as I said, which is due very much to the fact that the price of natural gas has risen, the price of CO2 has risen, there have been not enough capacity. If we do not make these long-term decisions, we will actually be more committed to natural gas, such as natural gas, which is under Russia's control, and we will see the security threat that is now coming from there very clearly if they control this price with it. Now, I wouldn't throw that kid out with the washing water and say that, for example, last year, the average electricity price in Estonia was 30 euros per megawatt-hour, where we have been working on this market all along, that it has been bad. No, it has not been bad, but we have to make sure there is more production capacity, we have to make sure there is more transmission capacity, so that we get a part of the functioning electricity market and that brings prices down. As I said, fixed prices can also be brought down by the rapid processing by the Riigikogu through the Electricity Market Act, which provides an opportunity to offer fixed prices at a lower price.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U33	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! You're misleading the public here, of course. Until 2016, check it out, the price of electricity was cheaper than after that. You are right that some decisions have not been made in the past, that is half-true in that sense, that past decisions have been wrong decisions for many, and that has caused today's situation. If we hadn't started talking about Põxit and shut down our powers, we wouldn't have that situation right now. But these are the wrong decisions that have brought us here today. Painting these pink clouds, how the wind parks of the Gulf of Riga are about to rise, you know how big a windmill in the Gulf of Riga is, it's about the size of a TV tower. What is this footprint compared to the electricity we have from oil shale in Ida-Virumaa? I'm afraid it's not smaller. But my question is. You said in your report that you are ready to discuss all our proposals two are to leave the power exchange and stop CO trading for at least a year both and set the price ceiling. Are you ready to discuss these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U35	Thank you. First of all, prices are different in all other areas compared to 2016. Secondly, you say that decisions have been wrong. You've been in the government yourself, why didn't you rethink these decisions? That is, in my opinion, a question when you criticise them. Now, the third topic is oil shale. The footprint of sea wind parks is somehow higher than the footprint of oil shale, so I have no specific calculations, but I can say for sure that the price of electricity produced in sea wind parks, which is now a source of concern for people, is cheaper than the price of electricity from oil shale or coal plants. And your solutions, which I agree with, are that this ETS, or carbon measure, needs to rethink the operation of this system, because, for example, companies, for example, when calculating electricity prices, you have a change that relates to this energy source. It would be better not to have a change in the price of this CO2 but to be clear and understandable. Whether it is possible to leave these systems and whether it is in Estonia's interest, it is not possible and it is not in Estonia's interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 18 other people who would like to ask. Let's try to stay within one minute of what we've been given. Several questions have gone over for a very long time. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Your speech was repeated that Estonia does not have enough connections to get cheap electricity here. You basically said the truth with that sentence. The Nord Pool Stock Exchange isn't working for us. If we do not have enough connections to get the electricity needed here, there will be a situation where this so-called exchange price is 400 euros per megawatt-hour in Estonia and 40 euros per megawatt-hour in Finland 80 kilometres across the Gulf. This isn't a stock exchange, it's a market. We simply undermine the competitiveness of our businesses, even if our people live worse than the Finns. Why does the government not stop Estonia's participation in this non-functioning power exchange until we have enough connections and so far do not simply sell electricity at a regulated price? I really ask the answer to the question, why don't we stop participating in this stock exchange until we have enough connections. I ask for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U38	Thank you. If we didn't have these connections, we wouldn't really have such cheap electricity. I have not said that there are not enough connections, but I have said that there have been connections full during the peak load. This means that all electricity has come through there and there could be more connections. I agree with that. Now, the price regulated by the state means that we, as a taxpayer, simply have to pay for it, and then it should be understandable. If we shut down these lines, as you propose, this will result in a situation where we actually only have capacities using expensive energy sources. This is the situation. Hydro, renewable energy still comes more than the Nordic countries, and again I say that last year the average price was EUR 30 per megawatt-hour, and certainly when the situation improves, we will also get cheaper prices when these capacities come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U39	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U40	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! It can be seen that the people are also keen to express their views on electricity prices, and it is also expressed by demonstrations. And we saw that recently the Fatherland came to Stenbock's house to protest. On Saturday, EKRE has invited people to express themselves. But I have concerns about the fact that the government has acted strangely in previous demonstrations. Playing the cello, playing the Estonian anthem on the cello has been declared extremely dangerous, taking the milk cannery and snapping it is extremely dangerous. I'm going to put it together in your interview with the view that one opposition party has a desire to get blood on the streets, and that's irresponsible. Is Fatherland in front of Stenbock's house or does EKRE really want blood on the streets? And what do you say to protestors, do you allow them to protest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U41	Thank you. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia applies in Estonia and everyone has the right to express their mind and opinion exactly as they wish. The police will choose their own tactics to guard the demonstrations and make sure that there is order.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U42	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U43	Prime Minister! Thank you very much for the overview of what solutions the government is working on to alleviate the energy crisis in the long term, and what is being done right now to help people who are struggling with their energy bills! This concern will certainly be reduced when the support measures already developed start to provide solutions and people are compensated for up to 80% of the price increase. But there are also people who are concerned that all the money that the country has is now going into grants and many long-term plans are no longer being resolved. Is it true that 113 million is currently being spent to compensate 50% of the electricity grid fee and 100% of the grid fee for gas? This is exactly the money needed to solve the problems of higher education, which all political parties have agreed to in the Riigikogu. The question is: what can we do to prevent our long-term crisis from emerging from such a crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U44	Yeah, that's a very good question. Thank you. It is true that taxpayers' money is government-managed, and exactly so, taxpayers' money is that it does not come from a wall or an American uncle, but it comes from a taxpayer's pocket. And if we do something about that money, then at the same time we can't do anything else about that money, that's clear. I think... But what's the other way around? There seems to be such a feeling in the Riigikogu, too, in all political parties, that right now all the money should be put there, in the short term, because people are complicated. Yes, it is difficult for many people, but we also need to maintain a common sense and mind, precisely so that these long-term problems, to which you draw attention and which also have a great need for money, can be resolved and are not such as to make sure that it is not a short-term concern, or simply a subsidy that directly helps people today, that we do not really sacrifice long-term and country-relevant developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U46	Good manager! Prime Minister! Your party partner, Kristen Michal, Chairman of your council, has come up with a good proposal, I think, how EUR 200 for pensioners, 300 for families, but you said that Mr Michal is a populist and a trash proposal. So is he populist, and are simple solutions of this kind in a difficult situation where we should act quickly really bad? And a little question: you want to shut down the hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe, or fish could come, but this 1.1 megawatts is produced. It's kind of an extra little question that's a smart idea right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U47	Thank you. If there is a proposal to pay 200 euros or 300 euros to everyone, I would point out that 72.8% of all domestic customers in Estonia have a bill of less than 100 euros. If we pay... It is an invoice, not an increase in prices, but a whole invoice. If we pay EUR 200 to everyone, I ask whether we are actually solving the targeted problem that we are currently dealing with. On the contrary, we know whether this week or next week, in the government, we are planning to make this decision, which is long awaited, so that we can discuss it in the government office.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U48	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U49	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am deeply amazed that you still have not understood the problem. You are dealing with the mitigation of the consequences, but not with the main problem of high electricity prices and their reduction, so that no subsidies are needed. While the Reform Party used to be an entrepreneurial party, today entrepreneurship and their performance, our economy is not interested in one gram. But I'd ask you about those windmills. We can really build land and seas full of windmills, well, it's green, although actually their production and utilisation are not green at all. But if we have achieved this hoped-for power, it will require, because there is no wind all the time, also the power generation that is being diverted to that side, just as powerful. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I haven't heard you have any such plan. So a third of the year we're still in the dark and cold?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U50	Thank you. On the contrary. First of all, I'm gonna disprove... Economics, on the contrary, the Estonian Reform Party is very interested. If we look at economic indicators, they have also been significant in the last quarter. By the way, the economy has started to grow since January last year. And in this regard, of course, various bottlenecks have come along. But now for your question of the power to be guided. Yes, if there is renewable energy, then there is also a need for controlled capacities, which is why I also referred to the decision concerning the nuclear power plant to analyse whether it is possible to create a nuclear power plant in Estonia, precisely in order to actually cover such concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U51	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister. Your middle school report on renewable energy, and your answers don't exactly add optimism, and we are where we are. We're in mid-January, and at the end of this month, there's new electricity bills. Businesses have already announced their closure and are likely to have thousands at the end of this month. Hundreds of thousands of people are desperate and Porto is currently arguing with Rollo, which one stands. People are waiting for answers today and now. What do you tell these people about the electricity bills in January? Is there any point in making more effort or closing the business now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U53	Thank you. As far as business bills are concerned, firstly, of course, this reduction of the electricity grid fee, the reduction of the gas network fee will also affect business companies, but indeed, we are looking for ways to offer additional relief to businesses. In addition, we have negotiations to provide a range of liquidity assistance measures. Indeed, what is the problem is that if one invoice is not paid, the other invoice will not be paid and this snowball effect will occur. We understand very well the depth of this problem and the potential impact on the economy as a whole. And that is why we are trying to find solutions that will actually help businesses in this situation and help them to think about the future even longer. Price fixing, for example, can also offer them a solution because very many companies have fixed their prices over five, seven or long years precisely in order to maintain this level because it is an important input into production. And as I said, if the Electricity Market Act, which is behind the proceedings of the Riigikogu, was to be dealt with, then it would be possible to offer lower prices quite quickly. So, yes, we are dealing with these liquidity facilities or liquidity aids.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U54	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U55	Thank you, President-in-Office. Very honourable Prime Minister! Thank you very much for coming today to give an overview of the situation and how the government can take greater care of and support its people! But it is clear that the situation with energy prices is very heated, very emotional, and on the one hand I am very pleased that the government has managed to keep a cold head here. When I look around the Chamber, in fact, all political groups, all political parties have a huge number of proposals and everyone knows what is right in this situation. And the numbers have been going through a lot of this discussion, and it seems to me that even so much, people have been a little confused about these numbers. I ask you to give very simple information to people without numbers about why it is important not to make rushed and emotional decisions in this emotional situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U56	Thank you. For this reason, that it is actually necessary to consider this particular need for support and precisely that taxpayers' money comes from the taxpayer's pocket and, if we then use it for one measure, we cannot do so, use it for something else. And actually, if it really is that this year is going to get us started and we're going to have more problems, then we're going to have an additional need for support. In addition, which I will come to the Riigikogu tomorrow, the security crisis, which is, is said to be the worst in 30 years in our region, which also requires additional resources. Unfortunately, the COVID crisis has not gone away either, we are likely to see new disease records this week and this will inevitably have an impact on hospitals as well. So all of this requires additional resources, and that is why I think this reasonableness is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U57	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U58	Prime Minister! Indeed, the market needs additional energy. I'm a little sad that you didn't actually mention this quick solution in your report, the Toots wind farm, where all the preliminary work has been done since 2007, which should actually bring 400 megawatt-hours to the market in its first phase and 650 megawatt-hours in the second phase to the market. It's driven by the goals of the green turn and so on, but unfortunately we didn't hear the word about it. Now I am going to give you the opportunity to further elaborate on this issue, because you have clearly said before the Christmas peace that two public companies should find a solution. Unfortunately, January will be over, and we have not heard much in public what this solution is. We all pay for the costs of buying land or building a substation. When will they knock you down?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U59	Thank you. That's a good question. Really, today, as far as I know, today is January 18th, and today should be the verdict of this Tootsi wind farm dispute. And we have agreed that when that judgment comes, then after that... The idea was to wait for this judgment and then give a clear owner's guidance, then go on. My personal point of view is that since the dispute is whether a company belonging to the Estonian state receives or does not receive a payment for renewable energy, I think that 53 euros per megawatt-hour of additional taxpayers' money may not be right for today's electricity prices. In fact, I think that we could really move forward and move forward quickly with this development.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U60	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You said here in your statement that you were planning and should or could or could be. There was no concrete solution, no new solution. Similarly, when you are asked about the stock market, you talk about the routes, and when asked about single parents, you talk about two parents. I have a feeling either you don't understand the problem and the subject at all, or you just don't want to understand it. And, of course, the fact that you're lying to the public at any rate possible, you're also lying about the fact that when we were in the government, we didn't do anything. Yet, thanks to Martin Helme, the reserve capacity of the power plant was maintained in Narva, which the Reform Party wanted to shut down. But my question is, however, how does your so-called targeted measure help those single parents who, in order to allow their children to go to school, have two jobs in order to enable them to live elementary lives? How will they benefit from your so-called targeted measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U62	Thank you. This very specific question depends very much on how much a person's salary is, but I am not the calculator here right now. This calculator is available on the website of the Ministry of Finance, where people can enter their income and how many children they have, and then find out if they qualify or do not qualify. I really can't comment on every single event here, so I... Perhaps one more thing I would say before Siim Pohlak attacked, that basically the problem is that we could have our own production capacity and rely on it, as if we did not need these connections, then I would point out that the problem of December arose in many ways from the fact that Auvere, which is in Estonia, did not work. This expectation of owners, which the Estonian state had placed on Eesti Energia to hold 1000 megawatts, was not met. And we had it here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U63	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U64	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! You have said many times today that a big picture and a view of the future is important to you, how to move forward, so that we are not in this situation in the future, as we are now. However, the government has approved or actually approved the European Commission's proposals to start taxing peat and our timber, chopped wood, which will tax more than five megawatts of boiler buildings in ten years' time. Well, it's exactly the view of the future that in ten years' time we'll be in a position where we're looking again for the culprit that this government was, who approved the room-warm higher prices. What are you gonna tell these people today? Why, then, do you support the taxation of our own resources by Europe, and in ten years' time we will be in a position where we do not understand where this decision came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U65	Thank you. The green turn is essentially a desire to change the economic model, an economic model that has given us prosperity growth. But now the idea is that we want this continued growth, but so we don't hurt nature. And the principle of taxation is that do not tax highly what you want to develop, but tax highly what you want to inhibit. So if we want our economy to work, but nature gets hurt less, then there are steps. Now, concrete positions, which Estonia has also agreed and which the Riigikogu can still discuss, are in the process of these negotiations. We have supported, or we will mean, I will not go into these positions specifically, because there are very many of them, but the principle is, of course, that we are forested, we have a lot of forest, we have a lot of timber, and such energy sources are important to us. And these negotiations on these proposals are likely to continue for years. So the Riigikogu can definitely say a word here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U66	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U67	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Social Democrats presented a bill in the Riigikogu yesterday, and we named it the North Star. To explain to you that it is inspired by the Norwegian measure, the idea of which is that no one has to ask, and no one needs to build up tedious bureaucracy, which spends a lot of taxpayers' money, but all energy consumers receive support from the state at a difficult time, that is what the country is for. You have received this proposal from the Social Democrats, I myself, among them, and very many people in society have raised this issue: why are we not using this Norwegian measure? Yes, the Social Democrats in their proposal extended it not only to electricity but also to gas and district heating. Somewhere you said you've been talking to the Norwegian Prime Minister about it. Would you answer me first, essentially, that what you have in return or maybe they come from the Prime Minister of Norway, whether he really told you that this is a useless measure, do not do this because it was such a bad measure that we raised even 80% of this compensation from 50%. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What did the Norwegian Prime Minister say about this measure, and why have you opposed it so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U68	Thank you. It is not a bad thing that the various countries have very different measures in this respect. If you look from Europe at Italy, France, Norway, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, there are different choices, whether for everyone or purposelessly. Some countries try to target more, others try to target less. Now, in the case of Norway, they have electricity-based heating in many ways, and that is what affects families very much. In each country, there is also a difference in where people get energy or from what sources. I have not said in any way that the Norwegian measure would be bad. They can take such a measure, this Norwegian measure is just 2.5 times smaller than the Estonian measure if you compare the ratio to GDP. And as far as my conversation with the Norwegian Prime Minister is concerned, I was simply wondering how this measure would work, to understand and to kindly talk about this measure, and I am very grateful to him for it. But if I were you, I wouldn't disparage this pursuit. Because it has led to people writing to me, who obviously go under this criterion, saying, you see that my salary is this, and I'm in this cold room, I don't dare turn on that heat. I'm saying that you have this allowance, you get help, 80% of your bill will be reimbursed. Then he says it's so humiliating, I'm not asking. But why? In fact it is not, it is not humiliating, it is not humiliating to ask for a tax refund, it is not humiliating to ask for a pension, it is not humiliating to ask for child benefits. And I am surprised that, in fact, the Social Democrats are saying that we actually share with everyone, that you have usually been the ones who stand up for those who need support. And now that we're making support that is for everyone and we've done electricity grid charges, gas grid charges for everyone, we can help less those who need support more and 80% of gas, electricity and then central heating we can compensate. The second point, which is different for the Norwegian measure. The Norwegian measure, as far as I know, I can't check here right now, but I think it was for three or four months. Our measure is seven months. It's just that I'm saying that he's actually quite extensive and should be helping people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U69	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U70	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I listened to your presentation, and I had such an association that I would listen to Kashpirovsky's speech. Look, there used to be a magician on TV who tried to convince his listeners. Unfortunately, it was quite like this, I'm very sorry, but it was a rather empty report. There were a lot of saying here, like, don't worry, we're coming to help, we're working on measures, we're working on it, faith in the future, believe in us. But, Prime Minister, I would like to stress that all the past measures that were then designed for today were all done in your time. The 17 years you were in power, and also in this time of day, there has been an environmental and economic change in which we are now living and where we are at the moment in our troubles. It's nobody else's fault, it's your own past decisions for the future. These same decisions have led us to the fact that we have become exporting land, electricity-exporting land has become electricity-importing land, we are in trouble. And you have targeted measures for people, but those who are in serious trouble and for whom there is no solution at all, these are entrepreneurs. [[Manager: Mr. Pulpland!]] What do you say to entrepreneurs, they have no opportunities at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U71	Thank you. Of course, I have no illusion that any report I make here will please you. But it's just the way it is. We may be looking for the guilty, but I think when this difficult time is over, we can deal with it. I can simply say that the 14-year-old Reform Party has been holding the Minister of Economic Affairs for 1.5 years. The one who's been responsible for their energy, but that's what it is. Of course, many decisions have not been made on this road, and wrong decisions have also been made. I'm not saying anything. For example, let me give you an example. When renewable energy charges were raised very high, by the way, the Reform Party, look, the vote on this history, the Reform Party was probably the only one who opposed it at the time to raise them so high, because it disliked people. The next mistake was that it went the other way, which meant that, in some respects, the promises of the investment made by the undertakings were withdrawn again and then the brakes were pulled again, these investments were not made. But as I say, it does not make sense to be stuck in it, but to look to the future to see what we are going to do with it. And the second question you had was... Ah, entrepreneurs, right. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Businesses and, indeed, in the case of companies, as I said, some companies, quite many have fixed prices for a longer period of time, because energy, electricity are in their production capacities or means an important element in their inputs, the price of energy and its predictability. Now the problem is yes for those who have not. How can we help them? One is that really legal persons will bring this network charge, the electricity grid charge completely to zero. This is one proposal that will also help to reduce their costs. And on the other hand, all these liquidity measures are precisely for those companies that fall under this liquidity snowball or could remain, we certainly do not want to create this. And the third thing I said is to get those production capacities from behind the stump that large consumers, which are factories, for example, have thought about themselves, to meet their energy needs, which have been behind some kind of merger agreements, would also help them many. So these ideas are here different or decisions are made in different ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U72	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister! We must have very different ideas about things. You think it's okay to ask for help. Do you not feel that there are too many people in need of help in Estonia today? And if there are so many, so many of the population in need, there is something wrong with the country. Your proposals, which you read out, concern two things: firstly, increasing the role of the state, and secondly, the interests of electricity sellers, offering them all kinds of things. The Fatherland proposal was completely different: not to support sellers, but to support buyers, to free them from the jams they have. Then a lot of things work themselves out. The free market dictates low prices. I do not agree with you at all that this request is simple. No, it's not. And I do not agree that everything is fine in the city of Tartu. The city government of Tartu makes...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U74	Mr. Lotman, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U75	But a lot of people have been complaining to me that it's so... Yeah. So, do you not feel that, as a liberal party, you could support people, not the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U76	Thank you. We support people. We support people in quite a considerable amount of 245 million. It's more than the state earns in taxes from this rise in energy. we have done a 50% reduction in the electricity grid charge, we have done a 100% reduction in the gas network charge, and we have made a targeted measure that really should help to compensate for 80% of the price increase. Now, you're saying there's a lot of people in need and you're asking us if we don't think something's wrong. But look at the world, you yourself have read a great deal about man and are also following the world's journalism. This problem has arisen everywhere, with their electricity prices everywhere this problem has arisen. This means that not only does Estonia have a large number of people in need, but it is everywhere. Why are we talking about Norwegian measures? Norway, which is a very rich country. We are talking about Sweden, we are talking about Lithuania-Latvia, we are actually talking about a very large number of countries, France, Italy. So this is not just Estonia's unique problem, it is a general problem, and we are trying to help people cope with their high energy prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U77	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U78	Thank you. Thank you for your political statement. You expressed surprise that Paul Puustusmaa was not satisfied. I must say that I am not completely satisfied either. Much of the statement was a lecture to Taavi Asa on the country's strategic choices in energy policy and there were two messages to the people. First of all, the cheapest electricity is saved electricity. This is in a situation where heating has been turned down at home, hobby circles, village societies have all turned down their radiators, even if they already have ground heating, which is a sensible solution. It is not dignified for any prime minister to expect his citizens to live in a cold home and set up a life based on the stock market price. You can't ask people that. And the second expectation: the submission of applications is reasonable for applying for grants. In the 21st century, a digital state whose standard of living has reached Spain. No, it is not a sensible solution to be expected of citizens. What is your message to the people of Estonia, how will the government come to help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U79	Thank you. There's no way to assume that people aren't difficult. In that sense, I have never said that, and that is why we have come to help people. In my opinion, the very nature of the problem is based on the fact that we have not dealt with these long-term solutions. We have to deal with these long-term solutions, and those measures that we have taken, if they do not work, we can add more. Now, from the digital state and application. We have a situation where we have, on the one hand, people on whom we have data in the population register. 20% of these data do not correspond to reality, i.e. who lives with whom, what households are like. Now, on the other hand, we have electricity sellers who do not belong to the state, but are actually private companies, that is, the state does not directly have information about their electricity bills, it is not in a single database. And third, actually, the fact that who needs help? They're in different places, like I said. On 28 October, we came up with this measure; this IT solution was quickly developed as much as possible to help and help these people quickly and also using these digital solutions. Of course, not everyone uses these digital solutions either. You know that, a lot of people are still dating, wanting to communicate with the local government, and are going to apply on paper, and that is something you can't blame them for. Now, this message to consumers or the message to the people of Estonia has just been that we are not leaving anyone without help. Also local authorities that include cultural houses. It's January. The financial year started now. In fact, the income base of local governments has increased by over 100 million. If difficulties arise, then there will be resources in the second half of the year, in the sense that, in the meantime, we will of course be prepared to come with an additional budget if it is necessary to support it further. We deal, for example, with health centres, health care providers, so that through the Health Insurance Fund it is possible to help them cope with these difficulties. In this sense, we are really trying to help businesses and people to cope with these things, and I say that the solutions are different, but when we look at and compare the volumes, speed and scope, our measures are not bad in that sense, they must start to work. If there are problems, it can be resolved in the process, and indeed, I would also put the heart of all local authorities to help people and to process these applications, as many have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U80	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have commended the government for its swift action and the excellent measure of helping people whose income is below the median wage. But you haven't said a single syllable about supporting the residents of the nursing home. The income of these people is also below the median salary and they will not receive a cent of this measure. Yeah, they don't live in their homes, but they're our people, and it's a shame they haven't gotten the attention of the government at all. The increase in energy prices has increased the cost of nursing homes. The income of the carers cannot cover these rising costs, nor can the relatives of the carers go along with this price increase. If nothing is done, the nurses will soon be brought to our parish houses and perhaps to Stenbock's house. What do you say to the residents of nursing homes and their relatives, how can they be part of the grants, how does the government intend to help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U82	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to say that this measure aimed at people is, of course, not ideal, I have not said [in contrast]. Indeed, these bottlenecks are, and they have all brought out, but we are ready to improve it so that people can get help. Now, come to your question, welfare institutions. Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo has developed various solutions which he will present in the government. There is a proposal to level out the effects of rising energy prices in welfare institutions, there are different options for resolving this situation so that this price increase can be compensated in such a way as to prevent operators from actually increasing the price of their services. And in the electricity market, if this price stabilizes in the summer, a fixed-price contract would be concluded to smooth out this concern. And the second proposal is investment support for welfare institutions. Similarly, these proposals are on the table. We are also aware of this problem, we are aware of it, and we are trying to find solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U83	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U84	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The Estonian people are, of course, an understanding and a wise people, and they understand that, in fact, we are currently having three major crises here, there is an energy crisis, there is a security crisis, there is a corona crisis. And, of course, in this situation, perhaps some will even wait, but especially politicians will be tempted to offer solutions that are quick, light, easy to understand. Let's be honest: populist just a lot of money, cheap electricity now and now. There has been even less of this today, there was also a lot in this hall last week, and there was also a lot in society. But I would like to quote Hannes Võrno, who on 9 January, ten days ago, wrote on Facebook: "Selections are the IQ test of the people, because a candidate who promises cheap electricity and wage increases gets exactly as many votes as there are idiots. " Since you can't confirm something like that, because then you're gonna end up with this temple again, that you're evil and unempathyless, I don't expect you to answer my question. I just wanted this quote from Võrno to get beyond this hall so we wouldn't just go (Director: "Time!") The path of populist simple offers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U85	Thank you. I guess that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U86	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U87	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! You have quoted a great deal and have given examples of cities, Tartu, some other cities, both good and negative. Today's Postimees states that 49 out of 249 applications processed in Tartu, i.e. one fifth, did not receive support. The city of Viljandi has processed 332 of the 400 applications submitted. Grants have also already been transferred to some, to a large majority. Just as people write to you, they have written to me that they are not going to apply simply because there are definitely others who are in more trouble or are somehow able to cope. In fact, it doesn't make sense, I'm just worried about those who don't go because it's humiliating, they've been doing it all along. Aren't you worried? It seems to me that you are more concerned about those who receive support, perhaps without justification, or if you define it with a border and carry it to everyone without a request. I'm really worried about those who are right, but they're not going to apply. That's not a reasonable choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U88	Thank you. I agree very much with you, I also worry about the people who obviously are the target group for whom it is intended, but are not going to apply for it. I have answered everyone that please apply, it is intended for this purpose. That's exactly what it seems to me, that it's all about, that it's like something abnormal or something unusual, that it really isn't, and still, if that support is needed, we've created this measure, to get that support. And this support should be sought. As I said, on the website of the Ministry of Finance, these calculators are also available to see if you are going to be supported there and the people of the local government are helping people to fill these applications. We have allocated special funds to this end so that local authorities can do so, and I would really put so much emphasis on local authorities that social workers, especially in small places where they know that people are in trouble, would also help these people to make this request.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U89	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U90	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am very pleased that you have come to report before Parliament in today's energy crisis, and I am also very pleased that you are not only talking about today but also about long-term solutions. We will certainly not be able to escape them, and Parliament will certainly have to deal with them. But I understood from your performance that there could also be a nuclear station in Estonia at some point, such as Viimsi. What is your assessment of how this would affect our energy independence overall, given that there is a handful of enriched nuclear fuel suppliers in the world and this is a highly vertically integrated market? Not to mention, would you also appreciate, let's say, how expensive this would be, given that we also need a regulator, that we need specialists and so on, and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U91	Thank you. I am not as educated in nuclear energy as you are, and that is why we have a plan to carry out this analysis of all the questions you are asking and to bring it forward. It was planned, I think, in 2024, but last week, Thursday we discussed in the government [and decided] to bring earlier. Then I would be able to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U92	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am very sorry, but I have to start by saying that this is not helpful at this point if you are making a complaint to the Estonian people that they have been sedated from the cheap price of electricity. The problem can be solved not by softening the consequences, as the government seems to have decided to do, but by eliminating the causes of the problem. And you have to start with the wording. We have three problems. The first is security of supply. Security of supply is guaranteed when the price is affordable and there are volumes available. The second problem is that we will soon have a social crisis in addition to the health, energy and security crisis. And the third one, I think, that's what's allowed this cluster to happen, must be some kind of management problem. My question would be: have you had a speech and are planning any changes to work in the Government of the Republic in order to deal with such matters better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U94	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I do not reproach the people of Estonia; I just dissected the causes of the problems, how we have come here, precisely in energy. True, when electricity is cheap, you do not think about thinking about more energy-efficient solutions or building more energy-efficient houses. Because a really more energy-efficient house costs more when it's built, but in the end, it can lead to energy savings for you if you may have made a bigger investment in construction. This is not in any way a reproach, it is simply a statement that we have had cheap electricity prices. So this draws your attention to the fact that we are dealing with this cluster crisis, the security, energy and health crisis, which is why I will also come tomorrow with a political statement on security. Because really, it seems to me that this is getting too little attention and this is the biggest crisis of 30 years. So this, too. Now, as far as the functioning of the government is concerned, there are certainly tensions in the crisis. And I hope that we will find solutions, just as we have always found solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U95	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U96	Thank you. Prime Minister! I listened very carefully to your speech, but I did not discover any new proposals or solutions to the acute energy crisis at the moment. You said in your speech that you are prepared to discuss the various proposals and all the proposals that are being made. But in your speech, you did not say a single word about the proposal of the Fatherland, which concerns both the possible reduction of VAT and, in particular, what I am interested in, the possibility for domestic consumers and small consumers to buy electricity over the counter in a way that would be coordinated with the Competition Authority. And please do not say in your comment or answer that this means leaving the Estonian stock market. This does not mean leaving the stock market, i.e. giving a certain target group an additional opportunity, in the context of an acute problem, to allow people to buy some EUR 50 megawatt-hours of electricity at the moment. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U97	Thank you. First of all, it is possible for domestic consumers to withdraw from the stock market and the name of this case is fixed-price contracts. It is true that today this price is very high and now fixing the price at the very high point actually brings a higher price through the year, but it is basically possible to fix it at a lower level in the summer months and provided that it stays long. So this opportunity is provided by the private sector and can be used. Now, with regard to the reduction in VAT, the reduction in VAT does not directly help businesses, but the reduction in VAT, if we look at it, is actually small in number. This measure, which is a targeted measure that will then compensate 80% of this price increase, is actually more aid or support for people than a purely VAT reduction that everyone would receive, even those who would not need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U98	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! As it has sounded in this Chamber, we have an energy crisis and, as a result of your office, you need to resolve this situation. The Estonian people have become accustomed to the fact that we are also informed every night about stock market prices, about megawatt-hours. It is 200, 400, 600, in December, even the price was EUR 1000,07 per megawatt-hour at 8 to 9 o'clock, which the Estonian people must pay. I have a simple question for you about your best knowledge: what do you think the cost of producing electricity in Narva power plants is for a megawatt?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U100	Thank you. No, I'm not doing these calculations, you can ask the board of Eesti Energia to give you all these input costs. But I'm even saying that this stock market price offers go on variable costs and you really have to ask about Eesti Energia for more precise figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U101	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U102	Yes, thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! When you spoke of a long plan, I must say that my faith in the government was beginning to recover. Until you reached the point of preventing the increase in excise duty. That's when I realized that the situation was actually unchangeable. Thank you for extending my horizons when you were talking about the Minister for Economic Affairs and 1.5 years old. I simply always thought that running the state was a collegiate responsibility. I'm expanding my knowledge. But my question is actually very practical. One link in this chain is the local government and this processing of applications requires quite a lot of human resources. And I'd ask you that. Local governments, they must also be paid to those who deal with them. Does it come from own resources or does it also provide for additional resources? Money is always low for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U103	Thank you. Firstly, of course there is a collegial responsibility in the government, I somehow deny it, but I also point out that the Reform Party has not been in the government since 2016 until 2021. Just to fix it. Now, as far as these instruments are concerned, yes, together with this support measure, we have provided additional resources for local authorities so that they can process these applications. I know that there are some municipalities that have not had to hire additional labour, but have done what is. And everything works. But there are others who have hired more people to still get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U104	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U105	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I have the impression from previous speakers that they live somewhere in the parallel world, that they are talking about cold cultural houses, cold schools. As far as I know, our municipalities have all the buildings heated up nicely, and people have also been asking for applications: ranch support, caring, transport support, subsistence allowances, these are all natural things. But my question is rather whether there is also a measure in the future for local authorities to make buildings more energy-efficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U106	Yes, thank you, it is. That's a good question. Unfortunately for me now, I cannot find this page, but yes, of the 400 million I have talked about, energy efficiency measures are quite a significant part of the public sector, and they are really intended to make buildings energy-efficient for the entire public sector, and local authorities are going down there too, so, as far as I am aware, this measure has not yet been developed directly, but the funds from the Re-Finance Facility have only just got loose, so this money is planned and will certainly come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U107	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U108	Thank you! Prime Minister! Can you tell us how far it is to build the LNG gas terminal and if that could help us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U109	Thank you. As far as I know, the private sector is lucky, but the state's LNG terminal is in Lithuania, but I don't know that we'll be doing it right now. I think it was years ago when those decisions were made. That's not the plan right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U110	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U111	Thank you. Prime Minister! You are saying that, for example, in the case of electricity, very few people are affected by the problem, because 70% have received an electricity bill of less than EUR 100. But we're not just talking about electricity bills. We're also talking about central heating, we're talking about gas and so on. In fact, the measure we are talking about, the compensation of domestic consumers, concerns almost all Estonian residents. Everyone has problems paying their bills, regardless of their income in fact. You are criticising our fellow Members here who are criticising this bureaucratic degrading system, but you do not seem to know how this application actually works either. This is on the basis of a check-in, isn't it, that a student living in Räpina must apply for support at his home in Saaremaa? The real residence must be proved, the rental relationships must be certified, which are usually oral, the housing associations must either convert the invoices or simply issue the evidence and so on and so forth. So there are quite a few bureaucratic obstacles to asking for an application and getting money. And housing companies are in trouble because people don't pay bills now, waiting for public support to be received. The question is: why do you continue to oppose us having universal support, just as the Social Democrats offer, which will be received by people before the bill is received?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U112	Thank you. First of all, I have not said that people are not in trouble and that many are not in trouble. I didn't say that anywhere. But I don't agree with what you're saying, that everybody's in trouble. Well, actually, not everyone's in trouble. In this respect, we should not go along with it. If you look... Okay, well, I'm not gonna bring those numbers that are about how many bills are up in terms of volume. In this sense, it does not justify or help those who are struggling. And I agree with you in this sense that 50 euros can be a very large sum for very many if your income is low. There's no way I'm underestimating it. Now, as far as the rental relationship is concerned, I think it's a good... One good issue of rental relationships is why these contracts have not been concluded and are oral contracts. Because this tax is not paid from there, because rent income should otherwise be declared. And maybe it's also a lesson, so it's worth fixing these rental relationships. Of course, that means tax will have to be paid from there. If, on the other hand, support from the state is sought, these things are linked, we will still pay these subsidies for taxpayers' money. It's... And when you say that a student who holds his or her local government at home, many local authorities have created digital solutions and can also remotely apply to people or mail their applications, it is also done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U113	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! My question does not concern today's subject, but it concerns another important component of the current cluster crisis, namely the security crisis. Does the government now have any measures planned, whether in other areas of military defence, internal security or broad-based national defence, which are not reflected in the current development plans and which are not funded by the current RES?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U115	Thank you. It is good that you are asking this question, namely that I will come tomorrow with a political statement on security issues to talk about these matters. This morning, before the session of the Riigikogu began at eight o'clock, we also had a government cabinet meeting on the same topics as security and the steps that we must take. So tomorrow I'll be in front of the Riigikogu and we'll be able to talk more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U116	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! My question is whether you have information or can tell us today that when, for example, support measures for apartment buildings and small houses will be opened, which will actually help save energy in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U118	Thank you. I myself have asked this question from both Andres Sut and Taavi Asa, and I was told that in the coming weeks. But when I looked at these sums, there is certainly one thing that needs to be increased because, in fact, we have money from European funds. And that people have become very interested in resolving these concerns in the long term. So that's why this "in the short weeks" is the promise that has been made, and I hope it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U119	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U120	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good contractor! I listened very carefully to your political statement and, for me, it did not make sense, of course, in the round of questions-answers, the way you scolded Reuben Kaalepit here, why you did not propose solutions. But we do have the format so we can ask questions here right now. There was a pretty strong deficit of truth in your introduction, but I admit, because I understand that these are still preventive actions to prevent further energy crises. But what solutions do you propose today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U121	Thank you. As I said, today we are offering people solutions, which are a 50% reduction in the electricity grid fee, a 100% reduction in the gas network fee and a targeted measure to compensate 80% of the price increase in median income households, where 80% of the price increase in gas, central heating, electricity is compensated. These are the specific measures that we have decided on, which are already working and a whole series of things, I will not recount those things that I also mentioned in the report, so that, for example, fixed prices can be brought down by the Riigikogu, by the way. The Electricity Market Act, which is in Riigikogu proceedings, process it quickly so that electricity sellers can offer prices at a lower level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U122	Prime Minister, this has run out of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U123	Already?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U124	Everyone had one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U125	All right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U126	I'm sure there would have been more, but that's our format. Thank you very much for this debate, and with it we have exhausted the first item. Almost. Before we can say it is exhausted, we still need to negotiate. But that's where we can go if we really...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U128	And in the negotiations, I recall, the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. The first to speak on behalf of the Central Group is Jaanus Karilai. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas focused his speech on long-term solutions. Yes, it is essential to increase the accuracy and pace of policy making here. This part of the speech must be accepted. But let's look out the window and see what's really going on in real life. Big accounts put big families at risk, old people with big energy bills are desperate, the price of natural gas has increased seven times, energy bills are already exceeding household mortgage payments. These are just a few headlines against the press. The focus of our dispute is on new short-term aid measures. You can't move quiet and smart down here. Food producers, farmers and a number of other professional associations have made assistance sages. The last time the local government leaders sent the Prime Minister a corresponding address, who is of the opinion that the package of measures decided so far does not provide sufficient assistance to the people of Estonia and the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment is still at risk. The statement stresses the importance of reaching out to every person in Estonia and must ensure that the measures are effective enough to mitigate the energy crisis. Let me also quote President Alar Karis, who emphasised four simple principles when he met the Prime Minister yesterday: 'Government must rule all the time and make decisions; aid must reach all those in need as soon as possible; solutions must be found that will ease the recurrence of the current price shock in the future; all political parties are equally responsible for the government coalition. " We have done some things, but the messages from society show that the crisis needs a bigger national package of assistance. The Centre Party has a plan to alleviate the situation. We have proposed three short-term measures: we fully compensate legal entities for electricity grid charges, we compensate all gas customers for 50% of the bill and we compensate households for 50% of electricity consumption. Electricity cannot be a luxury commodity. We have lost too much time arguing, and that is a problem for the Centre Party. In an emergency crisis, universal and effective measures must be implemented. People need to really feel the support of the state. The people's resentment is getting worse when they give micro-aid. The solution proposed by the coalition partner that the state will come to the aid from the agreed price and up to 200 kilowatts of consumption is less ambitious. An anomalous crisis cannot push people into a long-term debt cycle. Perhaps they can pay the bills, but at what price? We do not know how much SMS loans are taken to cover unexpected costs or how much savings were made on the family's food side. In short, time is ticking at ruthless speed, and the time for describing and analysing the situation is over. The government has to come up with solutions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U130	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! [[Helir-Valdor Seeder requesting more time.]] Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U131	Thank you. I thank my colleague for such an opposition speech. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we waited a long time for you in front of this Parliament, and I looked forward to finding out about the concrete decisions and solutions that are currently dealing with the energy crisis. And I have to say, unfortunately, I didn't find out anything specific. It was a prepared speech with points of discussion. It was a simplified description of the theoretical situation that would have been suitable for a secondary school lecture, but no more. It was a round talk, and I must say that it is extremely embarrassing and regrettable that we are currently in this situation in the fourth or fifth month of this crisis and in a government with such capacity. What did we hear? We heard about the atom, we heard about hydrogen, we heard about the need to review CO2 policy, but what and how and when and what are the positions or proposals of the government? No syllables. We learned that saving is important and that there is a need to complement measures to this end. We seek solutions, a message for entrepreneurs, we seek additional solutions to the loan guarantee and guarantee agreement. We're considering loans. We have designed measures, we are discussing, we are looking for a joint section with our partner, etc., and where we came out, we have reached this point, just going out of the Russian troops and joining NATO. That, well, really embarrassing, and what has the government done now? Well, the Prime Minister thinks that there are quite enough network charges reduced, network charges, those that have been universally lowered, where the Prime Minister speaks against himself, which helps both the poor and the rich, but all measures should be untargeted. And secondly, this bureaucratic, highly inefficient and demeaning claim for people's dignity, a system where people are being run between local authorities. And this tossing of stone into the local authorities' cabbage garden is not quite fair and fair, because it is based on a regime established by the government, which can be interpreted very differently, which already in its nature contains a number of problems, many problems and municipalities treat and interpret them slightly differently. I'm not going to talk about these details, but it's complicated for a lot of people, bureaucratic, they can't do it, they're giving up applying. And today, people who have managed to do very well in their lives have also been forced to apply. Families, landlords, they're the ones who have to stand outside the local government application. And this example that it is entirely natural to apply for grants and to make statements to that end, it is as if it is a positive example that you are applying for state aid, income support, that the Estonian people are applying for grants. That the country has made people dependent on the country, that people are no longer free people who can handle their own lives on their own. This is also a question of dignity, and I think that this bureaucratic and inefficient system of applying for subsidies is completely unreasonable and justified here, I do not know, there are no words. But now this comment that people can also resolve the situation and avoid high and fluctuating stock exchange prices by imposing fixed-price contracts or concluding these contracts. Well, that's a good suggestion at a high price level today, fixing these contracts. And then this second measure to regulate the relationship between buyers and sellers so that the buyers can no longer terminate these contracts so easily. It is, after all, a long-term price trap, to be fixed at a high level today and then to say that it is no longer possible to terminate contracts with monthly notice. This may be an additional option in the long term or in the medium term, but now it would be a trap, it would be a measure and a recommendation in the wrong place and in the wrong time. And it does not make sense that the Prime Minister speaks of being willing to listen to various proposals and discuss them. But we did not receive any substantive comments or questions to the proposals of the Fatherland. Our proposal to carry out a reform of the electricity market, the content of which is to enable, as a choice, domestic and small consumers, small consumers, who are also citizens' associations, NGOs, small producers, as well as this part of the business, to buy electricity off the stock exchange in a way that is coordinated with the Competition Authority. This would allow a megawatt-hour electricity price of around EUR 50 today, which would be feasible in a crisis situation and would solve a lot of problems and we would not need to deal with this bureaucratic system for applying for subsidies, and this is much easier. The state figures and the state interacts only with producers or sellers, which are hundreds and thousands of times less than those applicants and consumers as a whole. There is no comment on why it is being rejected and it is not such a radical and time-consuming change that would require long negotiations with the European Commission to leave the stock exchange or to leave the CO2 system, although the C2 system really needs to be changed, we are all in agreement here. There is no logical comment as to why such a simple and functional solution is not sought to be implemented and this bureaucratic system for applying for subsidies, which in fact does not solve the situation in the long term, is commended. No price ceiling option, of course we are also prepared to discuss and consider, but this is a separate issue, why would the Estonian taxpayer start paying off speculations on the stock market or profits earned throughout the chain, why would the Estonian taxpayer pay off it through the price cap? A rich Norwegian country can do this, all the more so as all production is in the hands of local governments or the state. But we are ready, if it is a common part of society, then it is also a solution, in any case a better solution, than this bureaucratic, working today, properly ineffective, subsidy application system. Finally, with today's statement, the Prime Minister confirmed that the government does not have solutions in this crisis situation. It's been four months, people have just started applying. When the money is received, how it will work, in the future we will not know, today it has not begun successfully and there is no consensus in the government. The Centre Party also plays a strange game, its own proposals are not supported, the reduction of VAT on electricity, heating and heat. Now it is as if something is being discussed, saying that our proposals have been rejected, but now we have already found a common part. It is a show for the public and making statements to see how good we have made proposals, but unfortunately, the coalition partner does not take them into account. Well, this is not responsible government action in a crisis situation. So I call, however, for both the Centre Party and the Reform Party to act in substance, to seek quick solutions and not to reject the totally good and functional solutions proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U132	For the Conservative People's Party, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U133	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Prime Minister! Colleagues! I listened to this presentation, I listened to a political statement, and I remembered a satirical verse that began with the lines: "And emptiness became meaninglessly a child. " It was exactly the same that, just as some suggestions were listed, there were solutions. Oh, how we are greeted by the Gulf of Riga wind farms! Oh, how we have solar panels! Oh, how we're about to have paradise! I really missed not talking about Rail Baltic and not talking about the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel. They should have been mentioned, so our whole bright future would have been laid on our tray. But I agree with the previous speaker one hundred percent that none of the real human problems were quickly and radically resolved by this political statement. I've been thinking here and watching the news, talking to people. I don't understand. And people don't understand, ordinary people, simple people don't understand how in the 30th year of independence the Republic of Estonia has reached a situation where a large number of citizens are beggars. A lot of people have to go begging. Last night I was watching the news, a Russian papi somewhere in Ida-Virumaa said it would be worth 15 to 20 euros, which would be very helpful. Hey, Prime Minister, EUR 15 to 20! For that kind of money, people have to fuck themselves up, humiliate themselves! There are no real words. This is the Republic of Estonia! Where is Estonia's success when people have to beg, beg? EUR 15 to 20 is a lot of money! Of course, a lot of people have a lot of money, and it's a tragedy. It is a tragedy that such change is a great deal of money for many people. By posting beautiful winter pictures from the balcony of Stenbock's house in the Ivory Tower, of course, you can't see the problem, of course you can't understand it. Then why are they so stupid? Why do they live so badly? Everyone's the blacksmith of his own luck. It's not that simple, I'm afraid. And then what are we gonna say? What we're actually talking about is that we have a head of government who reminds me of the Abbot's cult movie "The Last Relic." And I say, like Rolan Bykov, who played the role of abbot in that movie: "I bow to your resolve. " I also bow to your resolve, but just as the determination of this abbey led to a monastery disaster, so your determination has led to the border of the Estonian disaster. Leo Kunnas has today handed over an inquiry into certain aspects of our security policy. The public does not know that we have left the armed forces in the course of the year or have been forced to leave the basically laid-off staff of 11.6%. I don't mean conscripts, I mean professional, of course. It's a disaster. In a war situation, a battle unit that carries losses of more than 10% will be removed from the front, dissolved and assembled in new units. In this situation, where we are now, in a security crisis, we do not know where Russia might hit first. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U134	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U135	Is there an illusion around Ukraine, and is NATO really wanted to be tested in the Baltic States? Yesterday, a Russian plane flew over Finland with complete nerve. He laughs, he laughs at everyone! But we have a completely paralyzed, indecisive government, characterized by the fact that we bow to your resolve. We worship within your resolve! But I am not going to talk any further about all the worries, the pain, the tragedy and the rising rage that I see in Estonian society. This is a pre-explosion situation, people have been ravaged by all these corona restrictions and injecting terror and everything. People are scared, kids are scared. As a child, my generation survived the fear that nuclear war would begin immediately. Now you will cultivate this fear for our children and young people that the planet Earth will immediately perish because man is a plague and he has destroyed his living environment. How does a child who does not understand rationally that it is largely a false propaganda? You take children from childhood, you break society with your ideological madness. And then you say, but you've enjoyed a lot of cheap energy, now you have to pay dearly. Well, I ate yesterday, but I'm hungry again today. How can you be an empathetic person? With such expressions! How can you offend an ordinary person, literally mocking his concern! Since I started a poem, I've written poems in my life and not enough. I once wrote this poem, the first two lines of which I now paraphrase a little bit, rewording: "Prime Minister, quit the stage, yesterday you were erased from the plan. " Please draw your conclusions from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U136	Mart Võrguship, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party is on behalf of the Group, I would like to say that we understand the concerns of all people who have had two or more times the increase in electricity, gas or heating bills in recent months. This reminds us of a situation where there is an unexpected accident at home with pipelines, the damage that has been done must be paid off, only now this unexpected cost has arisen for thousands of Estonian families at the same time. And in this situation, scaring, disparaging, saying badly, abusively, or looking out the window and saying, "We think that's the way it is." As the Prime Minister said, today we are discussing how a similar situation will not happen again in a year, two or ten, and also how to alleviate today's price shock. I do not agree with those who say that today's government, or any previous government, has made the major mistakes that have caused today's price increase. In this case, we would only see high prices in Estonia. In reality, the price of electricity is expensive but everywhere in our region. The problem of shutting down old, polluting or unpopular power plants, but the new one is not enough, is overwhelming. The reasons for this may be for hours, but my conclusion is simple: one must ask what is different this winter than before. The answer is: tensions in relations with Russia. We have relied too much on Russian gas in Europe during the winter, and now we are in a fight with the Kremlin and the price of gas has increased four, five or more times. If there's no wind, no solar and no hydro power, we're gonna have to produce electricity from gas. However, it is more expensive than oil shale at the moment. Putin is certainly delighted that we are in a fight with each other here in Estonia and in other European countries, but I hope that we will see through this scheme. That's what's in this room. How, then, can this concern be resolved? I absolutely disagree with those who believe that the solution is the radical reform of the Estonian electricity market. The fact is that we cannot produce as much energy in Estonia as we need in winter. To solve this problem, we need to increase our production, not step out of Europe and the power exchange. The government discussed the steps needed to increase energy production in Estonia and to improve the functioning of the electricity market last Thursday. The Prime Minister also described them in detail here today. We must not allow this crisis to go to waste without taking steps that will help us in the long term. People should also ask themselves how to reduce their energy consumption in the future. In the coming weeks, the government has promised to announce measures to heat homes for households and support the installation of solar panels. I'm sure I recommend you use them. In addition to forward-looking measures, we still need relief from the energy shock. I do not agree with those who say that the government has not moved here fast enough. On the contrary, the government has agreed support measures of EUR 245 million, which, given the size of our economy, is the most generous in the countries close to us. And I dare to assume from this board that there has never been a government leader in Estonian history before whose government would have made such decisions. We have offered universal measures, such as reductions in electricity and gas network charges, as well as targeted measures for people with medium and lower incomes. The government has been guided by two principles. Firstly, the speed of implementation, which is why we have preferred reductions in network charges to tax reductions, and secondly, necessity. This means that we are trying to compensate for the increase in prices for those whose income is lower and whose bills have risen the most. For all people, I strongly recommend the use of a support measure developed by the government, which compensates for 80% of the price increase in electricity and heating bills for families under median income. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U138	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U139	Yes, the use of this measure, too, has already become resentful. It'll be brutally bureaucratic and humiliating. However, I get the impression that this resentment is being spread by people who have not tried to apply because it has only just begun in those days. Tallinn only started yesterday. Support has already been paid out to thousands of people in Tartu. I hear it takes 15 minutes to complete the application. The amount of the grant shall be between EUR 20 and EUR 900. I do not understand those who say that it is humiliating to seek support from local governments. The application must be submitted if you want to retire, declare income or apply to the municipality for child benefit. Unexpectedly, rising bills are not the fault of people, so there is no reason to feel bad about asking for support. That is why the government has made this support. I would ask everyone who has acquaintances and relatives who can benefit from this measure to be advised to submit an application. The allowance is targeted at 380000 Estonian households and, for example, a family with two children under the age of 14 must have a gross income of less than 3000 euros in order to apply for the allowance, while a three-year family with a gross income of 3500 euros will receive this allowance. For more information on compensation for energy costs, see the Ministry of Finance's website rk.ee/energy. And there you can use a calculator to see if they can fit under the measure. Do we also need further measures over all people, only the wealthiest or, for example, companies and institutions? Can't be ruled out. The government is working on the subject on a daily basis, but before we start running in new directions, we need to see how the current system works. But winter will last for a while. And the Prime Minister has also said that we are ready to adjust the support measures if it turns out that they do not help enough people or are some target group that needs help, but they do not fit down there. The aid can be applied for all months from September to March, also retroactively, for a total of seven months. The key thing, however, is to believe that together we can overcome the problem. In the nineties, we came through the worst together. It cannot be that now a medium-sized energy crisis is taking us out of the track like this. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and good luck in thinking about us, working together and solving this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U140	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U141	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! First of all, thank you very much for coming to the Prime Minister at least now and giving up this subject before the Riigikogu at least from my point of view and answering questions from the Riigikogu! Whether or not the questions were answered is already to be evaluated by everyone on specific questions. However, unfortunately, I too must agree with those who are critical of the fact that the solutions, the solutions most expected in society at the moment, were very few in the presentation of the Prime Minister. In his presentation, the Prime Minister stressed, among other things, that the biggest role played by the rapid rise in energy prices is the price of natural gas. At the same time, we see that this price has to be paid by individuals, businesses in a large picture. It is not the state that takes this responsibility, which should be the responsibility of the state, and it is not in this crisis situation that strongly helps the individual and society in general to cope with the consequences of this crisis, but it is the hand that is spreading, and the Prime Minister is quite right to say that we must not forget the bigger picture, but the Prime Minister does not, unfortunately, understand his role as Prime Minister, the Head of Government, because the Head of Government must always see the details in the bigger picture. And if an individual is scared, if he has no confidence in the future, then demand that we all see a bigger picture together, it is not adequate. First we have to take down our fears and give back our basic sense of security, and then we can talk about the bigger picture. And I very much hope that the government will begin to understand this at some point, despite all this. The Prime Minister's promise that the government will react quickly, as they have done so far, is, of course, ironic. I hope it's gonna be like this, I'd really like to hope so. But just because energy prices are starting to roll, we started to see the other half of the summer. It's not a one-month swing, it's a trend. In autumn, it was clear to everyone that there would be exponential increases in energy prices. And at Christmas's table, people didn't really know if the country would come to their aid in any way. Multiple invoices for several months have accumulated and now, indeed, people are facing the opportunity to go along with this lottery, submit an application and see if they succeed. We know from the example of Tartu, which has been repeatedly mentioned here that 250 applications in every five applications were rejected. Every fifth one who came to apply in the first place didn't succeed. And the talk about how thousands of people have gotten their money is not true, as far as I know. Perhaps the Postimees journalist is very wrong, but today Tartu Postimees writes that 1300 applications have been submitted in Tartu, 200 of which were granted and 50 were defeated. So when you collect your data, the honourable government and the government coalition, please take a critical look at this data. And we know that there are 100,000 people living in Tartu. The measure is intended for the majority of the people of Estonia, as is always emphasised, because the majority's income does not exceed the median. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U142	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U143	I've already referred to Mart Võrguship here. Mart Võrguship brought in a security issue, and the Prime Minister has referred to it. We are about to address the security issue at the end of this Riigikogu hall as the next point. After all, the government should understand very well that internal tensions are a dream for the foreign enemy, and these internal tensions we are creating through the fact that we are not going to help people adequately. It is the role of the government to prevent these tensions, to reduce them as much as possible. Unfortunately, by rewinding these tensions, the government is contributing to the rise of the disappointment that arises against the country, against the European Union, against international cooperation at all. And finally, of course, against the turn of green, which, in order for us to actually be able to keep our planet for future generations, is essential. And we saw in bright form the irony, bitterness, conspiracy theories, and the end of the world that comes with it. And the solution is an isolationist utopia that is not possible. This is not possible in terms of energy solutions for Estonia; it is not possible for us economically, nor is it possible in terms of security, because then soon the Estonian state will no longer exist. But the government's failure to do so will give it a boost. I am not going to stop at this low-level political demagogue, which here concerned the confrontation of different municipalities. A man doesn't care what level he gets help from the state, but he wants help. And when the government turns to local governments, it is the responsibility of the state government to ensure that local governments are able to carry out these tasks and want to carry out these tasks, not to complain to us here, just as the Central Party, as a government party, is always complaining about the Reform Party that local authorities, or a part of the country, do not want to perform their duties. This is the role of the government to get them along, especially when we are talking about the capital, the largest local government. And finally. In answering my question and several other questions, the Prime Minister said that he too has been written by many people who say that they are humiliating to ask for support. And he said, "It's not humiliating." If the dignity of an adult person is questioned, if he feels that his dignity has been offended, then it will not help, is it the Prime Minister, or is it anyone, the second-third-fourth-says to him: you have misunderstood. For years, these people have worked hard not to have to go on asking for social benefits, but they were unable to anticipate such an increase in energy prices. And now they've been put in a position they've been trying to avoid for years. And if they don't bend to it, you can't tell them you're stupid. Because he has lived by their beliefs and must be understood. And the root of the crisis, which is the government's crisis today, is that you are not trying to understand our people, you are not trying to put yourself in their role, but you are telling them how they have to understand things, how they have to live. Please leave people their dignity and we can all go on together! The dignity of the people must not be taken up, especially in such a critical moment, and I very much ask you to look seriously at the proposal that the Social Democrats tabled yesterday as a draft decision, which preserves their dignity and helps all the people of Estonia, because they deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U144	So, now we have also negotiated, and with that, the first item has exhausted itself. Thank you, Prime Minister. We are moving on to our agenda today, but before we go to the second point, given that we still have quite a few drafts here today, the proposal has come from the Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 2 o'clock, and that is what we have to vote through. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U145	The proposal was endorsed by 42, against 1. The hearing is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U146	We will go to our second item on the agenda: Helir-Valdor Seederi, Heiki Hepneri, Priit Sibula, Mikhail Lotmani, Urmas Reinsalu, Paul Puustusmaa, Reuben Kaalepi, Leo Kunnase, Urmas Reitelmanni, Henn Põlluaasa, Rene Koka, Siim Pohlaku, Anti Polandmetsa, Jaak Valge, Martin Helme, Alar Lanemani, Merry Aarti, Sven Sesteri, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Raivo Tamme, Riina Sikkuti, Heljo Pikhofi, Andres Metsoja, Üllar Saaremäe, Riho Breiveli, Indrek Saare, Uno Kaskpeit and Jaak Juske presented in support of the statement of the Riigikogu's "Ukraina territorial integrity," the draft decision. I'd like a speech chair for Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U147	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! We live in a difficult time. When we talk about short history, Russia turned a new page in 2014. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. This aggression has continued, and we can see that Russia today, means Putini Russia is no longer confined to it, it is making new demands on Ukraine. Again, the Novorossija project, which essentially takes away a large part of Ukraine, came on the agenda at least at rhetorical level. This aggressive and avantyristic policy did not receive sufficient response from the democratic Western world. Today, when Putin's government made new demands on Ukraine, they were not limited to Ukraine. Essentially, demands have been made and a challenge has been made for the entire Western world. And it's not hidden by rhetoric or demands. It is very important here to emphasise that Ukraine is not only threatened by enemies with Ukraine. Allied relations and trust between friends are very important in such crisis situations. When the aggressor presents the conditions to his victim and, in fact, he presents these conditions behind his victim, it is officially said that Russia and the Western negotiations and the President of the United States of America are discussing the issue of Ukraine, on the basis of the agenda presented by Russia, which we have heard, from Jen Psak, the speaker of the United States Government, that these Russian demands have been rejected. On the Russian side, however, we heard a slightly different story that they were taken into account and there are positive results for Russia. What they're like, we don't know. But there are clues, also from the American side, that, for example, the supply of assault weapons to Ukraine will be stopped. What are assault weapons? An attack? It's up to Russia. Most of what Ukraine wants is anti-tank weapons and ground-to-air missiles. These are not Ukrainian ideas that Ukraine wants to conquer some part of Russia. This is completely absurd. There is only one source of danger in this conflict, and here we cannot talk about such paritic requirements that we have on the one hand, on the other hand. It is very wrong that the United States of America even fell into this trap and started negotiating them. Many American analysts and former government officials speak of this, and not such falcons. But if we really want to prevent armed conflict now, those Putin conditions, on the contrary, will only escalate. An ideal answer to keep the balance of power and prevent war would be to increase the American contingent in Poland and Romania. But we know that Ukraine is not the only one in danger. We, if we support Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity without conditions, are actually very well aware that Ukraine is now in this great front line, but Russia is already talking about war and the front line. It's just an attack target. In fact, Russia's ambitions are much wider. We know that military manoeuvres, especially Zapad, were concentrated in the direction of Ukraine, but there were others where the Norwegian attack was imitated, not only on the land border, but not especially on Norway... from the Atlantic Ocean, where the Danish Straits were shut down by Russian ships. So essentially, according to one scenario, the idea was to turn the Baltic Sea into Russia's inland sea. And we can see that this traditionally neutral Sweden and Finland are very disturbed. Gotland, too, had a very high level of activity, in Russia, say, 'tourists', and there has been much more seriously the defence of the Swedish troops. Of course, we are in solidarity with Ukraine, and with this we are not only trying to prevent aggression in Ukraine, but it has now been very important not to allow the aggressor to feel completely free and free of all responsibility. Unfortunately, the influence of Russia has not only been quite effective at the level of governments. In Western societies and elites, too, what is known in Germany as "Putins Versteher" or "Putin's Understandings" is common. Or using President Ilves's expression schröderizatsija, he specifically uses the Russian term "schröderisation." It is not just the bribery of politicians or former politicians. I recall the late 1970s, the crisis of the late 70s of the last century, when the Soviet Union placed the so-called SS-20 medium-ranges, it was completely silenced. But then, when NATO was just planning to counterbalance its Pershingu, there was a huge movement of pacifists and folk lovers in the West. To a large extent, as we know now, it was financed and inspired by the Soviet Union. Today Russia is getting along much cheaper, there is no need for major financial injections. Well, there are also, or Schröder does not do his job for free, but unbuyable politicians and unbuyable journalists are at the top of the iceberg, through the Internet and other social media, Russian propaganda has worked very actively and quite successfully, not only in Germany. We can say that these Putin people, Versteher, are also in France and Italy. It's a remarkable force. What does that mean to understand Putin? It is said that Putinini must be understood, because the Western world does not understand Russian politics, does not understand Russian history. And what does Russian history mean? That Crimea was always part of Russia. I'm sorry! Crimea was never part of Russia. I, who know a little about Russian history, was never part of Crimea's historical Russia; he was part of the Russian Empire, but it was not until the end of the 18th century. I would say that, when it comes to history, it is important to recall Prince Vladimir, who was allegedly baptized there, but it is as if the Khanty of Crimea and Turkey had more... Using the wrong historical arguments. The reality is, however, that in international law we are based on international law, and from this point of view Crimea can only be heard by Ukraine. So, this is about Russian history and geography. That's where Putin needs to be understood. And then there's another very important argument, that's the Russian soul. In Russia, there is, in essence, only one ideology that holds the country together, and the name of this ideology is the russophobia of everyone who hates us. However, I would like to say that Russia has never been as Russophobic a government as it is now. This government is based on the fact that this Russian soul is a slave soul, with only two variants: either to keep him in the frame of order with a whip, or to rebel. It's the only way. Then, when Stalin was an effective manager and Putin now continues, he is now such a hard-on. Well, I know a little bit, the Russians are normal people, they want to live normally. They love that they're not poor. They like to sit in a warm room, they like peace, but not war. What Putin and the people who understand him attribute to the Russian state is very wrong, and it is very bad for Russia too. So if we stand firm against Russia's aggression now, we will not only support Ukraine, but we will support the Western countries, the entire Western world order, we will support ourselves and we will also support the Russians. This is one aspect of our statement. The second is that it is very dangerous again that the fate of countries and nations can be determined behind their backs. That time should be over. This is already at the end of the Soviet Union, Gorbachev signed the so-called Paris Charter. Every country and every nation has the right to determine their own destiny and such things as the Munich Treaty, the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, etc. are no longer an option. Now we see that they may be an option. And as a small democratic proud state, we cannot afford such a thing. But I also want to say that this is not just our own selfish request. Right now we're standing. We are facing very difficult and decision-making political decisions, and we must express very clearly our solidarity with Ukraine as well as completely unacceptable the fact that the fate of countries and nations somebody wants to decide behind their backs. Yeah, and maybe I'd end up with another thing. I would like to follow the voice of my colleague, the Networker, when he said that we need to see the causes of the crisis. And the cause of the crisis is Russia. Yeah. To a great extent, it is. Let's solve this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U148	Looks like your colleagues have some questions for you too. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U149	Thank you! Dear waitress, I thank you for initiating this statement. Although it has been said that the Riigikogu has already made these statements, including the previous formations, I think it is still very important to make this statement again now, and I thank you for that. There's been a saying that I'll never be alone again. I wanted to ask you whether Estonia is alone in making such a statement. Are there any other national parliaments that have made such a statement on Ukraine, the European Union or any of the countries of the European Union individually, or are we here alone in making such a statement? And what do you think about Estonia's foreign policy situation or position in foreign policy? Has Estonia's foreign policy taken good stand here, or do we just have to do something right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U150	Thank you. To start with, I must say that the fact that some statements were made before does not mean that we do not have to make a new statement now, because the situation has changed very significantly and dangerously. However, as regards whether the other parliaments have done something like this, frankly, I do not have a full picture here. But we don't have to be afraid of being the first. We remember that the Estonian Parliament or, say, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Estonian Parliament first declared that the elections in Belarus were not legitimate and therefore Lukashenko is not a legitimate ruler. There were serious doubts, we were the first, the next day a similar statement came from the Lithuanian Foreign Minister, and today it is like a generally accepted truth in the European Union. You can do it on your own. As far as Estonian foreign policy is concerned, in general it is not wrong, but it could be more active and, let us say, clearer. We're on the right side, there's no doubt about it. But sometimes it feels like we want to be too decent. Our Foreign Minister often says that we listen to our colleagues and then take a stand. But it could be done that, at first, colleagues listen to us and then we take a stand. I'm not too pessimistic here, but I could have a stronger position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U151	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U152	Thank you. Good Mikhail! Thank you for your presentation, a very nice presentation. Thank you for your initiative, very supportive. But I also agree that we should be on the right side of our foreign policy. But I've had deep doubts about whether we're on the right side. If I look at today's statement, no coalition politician has ever come along. At the same time, we also know that, for example, in Mali, where there is a problem, where we are forced to fight with Russian mercenaries now, in the same way we have chosen the wrong side. Do you see any pattern here that we coalition politicians have chosen the wrong side of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U153	Thank you. The general answer is no, we are still on the right side. There are nuances. There in Mali, we're in a very bad situation, and not so much on our own. If French, I don't remember if it was the Foreign Minister or even the President said that under any circumstances we weren't in Mali when Wagner was there, then later it turned out that Wagner was already in there by then. Then they said, "Okay, Wagner's up there, but we're down there. But now we see that quite side by side are French and Wagner's... You know that in Mali we have two missions, two missions, and as far as this main mission is concerned, it is run by the French, who very much appreciate this arms brotherhood between Estonia and France. And I fully understand the frustration that we have to be side by side with Wagner, but if we now tell the French about the kiss of an adjutant, maybe they'll tell us if we need French help. So I agree that the situation is not good. But the government will have to negotiate with the French first, our allies. This is also a very important thing in the crisis that we talked about, that first the allies need to talk to each other before they start negotiating with the enemy. Yeah. I think we're still on the right side, but sometimes we slip.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U154	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, thank you very much. (M.Lotman: "I'm a little louder, please, I'm hearing bad things! ') Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you very much for this review and for helping us understand the nature of this crisis. And I, for my part, say that I think that we must unambiguously support Ukraine, thank you for having taken such an initiative. But my question is, should we not, in this situation, where Russia is really behind the energy crisis, as you mentioned well, trying to be united in Estonia, to be united in Estonia, in the Riigikogu first of all, that the possibility of signing this statement would have been offered through the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the possibility that coalition ambassadors would also have been more aware of it. And the second question is that we could also stop sowing fear in the energy crisis, in a situation where, as you said, Russia, Russian gas, is behind it. For example, gas-based power plants in Latvia and Lithuania, in fact, who are able to sell, Baltic production insufficient, cable will increase this electricity price, too, we need to understand. My question is, how do you think we can ensure this unity, because the crisis in Ukraine is also a dangerous crisis for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U156	Thank you for that question. As far as this first part is concerned, there has been some sort of work accident here, of which the initiators, if it is guilty, minimally, it was not meant in any way by any internal political chemist. On the contrary, the idea was that it would be taken unanimously by the Riigikogu, and as far as I know, our group chairman gave the opportunity to sign it for all political groups. But again, as far as I know, Mr. Gridship didn't even accept it. So here I think you should also ask your group why this happened. In any case, it was in no way the idea of the initiators to make any internal political tension yet here, on the contrary, the idea was to demonstrate the unity of the Estonian state, the Estonian parliament. And I would like to thank the representatives of all the political groups in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who unanimously supported it. Here I don't think there's anything going on, I don't know that the signatories want some points for themselves. This is our joint statement, which I very much ask that we support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U157	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U158	Honourable waitress! We have this statement now, very timely, very necessary. Russia's aggressiveness is growing in days, we see technology moving towards Belarus, the increase in threat. But at the same time, it's been a long process. And my question is that, especially in recent years, the West has been remarkably yielding to such crude violations of international law and has kindly taken it back to ENPA, and has legitimized the aggressor step by step. Has it not also been encouraging to Russia, and could there be anything more that could be done to prevent the West from being so yielding, in the example of this ENPA?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U159	Thank you. I agree with that, I agree with the first part of this question, that the West has taken too much, I would say, amorphically, and that is exactly what Putin needed. At the moment, when we look at these Western experts in politics and military affairs, I think they are completely wrong to understand that Putin wants to conquer Ukraine and does not now have so much strength in the back. But Putin doesn't want to conquer Ukraine. He wants to make another chaotic territory in Ukraine, such as Donetsk, as in Lugansk, as in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, or as in Transnistria. Such territories are dominated by some vague people, where the armed forces are some sort of criminal formation, and then it is absolutely guaranteed that such a country will never be taken into the European Union and NATO. I think that's his purpose, and for that he has the power, I think. But what I don't agree with is that there is some kind of West and then we are who we are with this, I don't know, this West... No, we're the West, too. Our voice, if we raise it with sufficient authority and unanimity, it matters. And what can we do? That is what we find out that we are taking this statement now and are constantly and consistently in our positions, does not go wrong. When, at the beginning of the 20th century, there was such a wave of terror in Russia and, by the way, Prime Minister Stafin was also wanted to be killed. The carriage exploded with dynamite, where several dozen people died, including one or two children of Stolifin. And Stofin replied that terrorists tell us, hands up! We answer them, "I'm not afraid! That's not what I'm afraid of. This is the only answer to terrorism. You're threatening us with war, but we're not afraid. In fact Stoltenberg said this and I think it took the tension off very significantly. It's not that, uh, we're gonna negotiate that maybe somewhere out there is the truth, and Russia is right, and so on. No, it's not. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U160	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U161	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! A long-made beauty is this statement we have. I thank you for this initiative. I have two questions. I have had a rather pleasant opportunity to debate at least once a week in front of the Russian embassy with people living in Estonia who, in my opinion, live in an absolutely different information system. The arguments on their side are always that have you not looked at Russia Today and any other channels at all? This is Ukraine, in fact, threatening Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U162	And Estonia is also threatening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U163	Shouldn't we stop retranslation in the territory of the Republic of Estonia on the basis of the example of other countries in the case of empire-minded channels? That's my one simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U164	Yeah, I've said the word many times about these channels, and I want to say it again. I am against prohibition, but I do not understand why they are included in the main packages, why they can be more practically viewed free of charge. I think that Russian channel viewers are people with special needs, and let's say you can watch these channels, but then pay for it separately, as are the direct porn channels, sorry, porn I think is the wrong word, let's say adult channels. Look who's very urgent, he can pay, but right now they're almost imposed. This is my opposition as such a conservative liberal. Not to be banned, on the contrary, to be allowed. Anyone can buy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U165	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U166	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I thank both for this initiative and for the presentation to explain the situation in Russia, psychology, Putin's motives, but also for that, so you stressed that the purpose of the request is not to inspire internal political tensions, but to actually demonstrate the unity of the Riigikogu. And indeed, unity in security policy matters is very important. If our reaction really is that we are not afraid, how can we create this unity in Western Europe, so that there too is an adequate understanding of Russia's motivations and patterns of behaviour, so that the Western Europe's reaction is more similar to us and that we have the same sense of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U167	Great question, thank you! First of all, I will take care of one thing: I am not the initiator, I am the representative of the initiators, so I am not paid too much credit [to be published]. How to show the unity of the Riigikogu? A vote. It's a very simple tool. But when we talk about this more serious thing, how can we not be afraid? I have dealt with the semiotics of fear quite a lot and it has been studied not only by semiotic methods but also by other methods, such as sociopsychologically and sociomedically. Fear acts like an infectious disease. With these radical circles, but thanks to the Internet, these germs, these viruses spread very widely. But there is also positive news: courage also spreads. If we're not afraid, we, a small country, I was told I wasn't watching these channels, I'm not watching any channels at all, I don't even have television at home, I have to say very healthy, but I specifically looked at a Russian channel in YouTube, involved in closing this Memorial, because I was working on it. Well, really sick people, absolutely. In Russian there is a good word that could be passed on in Estonian with the word "zombie," making an auditorium zombie. If you're looking at one of those shows, you're gonna watch them talk, fools. But if it keeps coming, with hypnotically, monotonicly, as obviously and so on, you may as well be consciously rejecting it, but it stays in the subconscious. Well, there's only one way to tell the truth and not to be afraid to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U168	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U169	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Do you have any idea what relationship the local Ukrainian community has to the draft statement, have you had any contacts or feedback from that side?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U170	Thank you. I have contacts with the Ukrainian congregation and the Ukrainian congregation is divided. I went, I don't remember if it was Kohtla-Järve, I met with the Ukrainian congregation, and there I was almost lynching. It turned out that they were very happy about the occupation of Crimea and were more Putin-minded than the Russians, the local Russians. But then in the costaars, the aunts came to tell me that I was still right that neither those who scream like that were real Ukrainians. But I have met Ukrainians, representatives of the Ukrainian congregations in both Tallinn and Tartu. The Ukrainians of Tartu are very Estonian and Ukrainian mostly. Maybe there are others, but I just didn't meet them. That is it, the Ukrainians have in some ways the same problem as the Russians, it is very difficult for them to form a congregation. I remember, during Perestroika, about Vikerkaar/Raduga magazine Estonian-minded Russians, then we discussed that there were many decent people among our Russians, and one answer was that made us laugh and realize how many of us are here, seven, well minus two. [[Laughing.]] And this is that the Russians in Ukraine, they'd rather have a fight with each other, here in Estonia, but actually we see it in Ukraine too. However, this external threat could consolidate the people much more than it is now, but no, unfortunately that is not the case. This does not mean that we should not be champions of Ukraine's sovereignty and security. We are!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U171	Mr. Lotman, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Now is the time for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to come to the chair. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U172	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft statement at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee on 13 January. We began this debate on how we could plan our activities both in the Commission's sense and in the Commission's sense of being informed that, really, such statements as the draft statement is, since it was initiated, would receive as much support as possible, both in the context of the initiators of the statement and in the context of what is finally taking place in this Chamber, through the final vote. In fact, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not only been through its composition, but through a long time to show very good practice. Good political practice has first and foremost been linked to the general attitude of our foreign policy that we always try to achieve the highest possible consensus in matters relating to Estonia's security, the security of our region, the security of our allies and partners, regardless of which party is in opposition or what is in the coalition. And with this debate, we actually just recalled in the committee that it would be good practice to have the idea that if one or the other party or politician were to start drafting the draft statement by the Riigikogu on foreign policy, security policy, then at least this could be equally communicated to the political groups by the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs and, as I understand it, all the members of the committee were in agreement. The Commission emphasised the extreme timeliness of the draft statement that it is indeed, despite the fact that the Riigikogu has already spoken through these two statements in 2014 and 2018 for maintaining the territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine, 2014 and 2018, this certainly does not mean that in this situation, where the security crisis in our region is really taking dimensions that threaten not only the territorial integrity of Ukraine but also the security of the whole of Europe, it is entirely appropriate that the representativeness of the people in the form of the Riigikogu is speaking today. Here, there was also a question to my good colleague, Mikhail Lotman, about whether similar statements, statements have been made before by one of our partners or allies at parliamentary level, then, as far as I know, similar statements have already been made, I know, a week ago in the Latvian Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Lithuania has also expressed its position. It is possible that these statements have also been made in other parliaments. In any case, we are not the only ones doing so today, nor are we the first. During this debate, the members of the committee, who then really represent all the parties represented in our committee in the Riigikogu, clearly agreed that this is a necessary statement at this point in time. A joint proposal was made for a draft statement to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 18 January this year and for a final vote and, by consensus, all these decisions were also approved by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U173	Paul Puustusmaa would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U174	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good colleague! When Mr Lotman was speaking here, he said that your group did not accept this statement. I do not know, of course, whether this was discussed in the Commission, obviously not. But can you comment on why your committee did not accept it, despite you saying that the effort has reached a consensus here in the Riigikogu, regardless of whether you are in opposition or in coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U175	Yeah. Well, your attempts to turn this thing into domestic politics have failed in the bud. First of all, they do not really contribute to achieving the basic objectives of Estonia's foreign and security policy. Because this activity is counterproductive and I have seen it many times in time, not very often in fact, but in this composition, unfortunately, somewhat more than in the previous four formations, the work of which I have been able to participate. Through 20 years, I can just tell you this broader practice, the Riigikogu makes relatively rare foreign policy statements and does so when it is true for Estonia's security and for Estonia's foreign policy, for our partners or allies, a situation has arisen where we cannot be silent, where we must express our position. And the expression of this position should still contain, very clearly, the broadest possible support space in this Parliament as well. This, of course, does not mean that, in today's vote, we can see that there are probably colleagues who may not share the position and message of this statement. But clearly the attitudes and wishes of the members of the Riigikogu to express their minds are free. Now, as regards how such statements could or should arise, in the course of this composition, among other things, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have discussed not once, but on a few or three occasions, that good practice, because really, once again, the basic fact that we have tried, regardless of who is in opposition or coalition, our common sense is that our small country is always doing well then, internationally defending its positions and presenting, if we can find these corners, different positions to debate, for example, at the level of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and from there to come up with as much consensus as possible. That is why, in general, for example, if we recall here even the 2018 statement on Ukraine's issues when the critical situation in the Kerch Strait arose. So what happened? At the time, we agreed on one representative of each of the political groups represented in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, came to the table and jointly drafted this statement. Of course, statements may also arise in such a way that 21+ members of the Riigikogu think that now is the right time to propose their own wording, for example, for a statement by the Riigikogu, as it is the case in this case, but good practice, good political practice, would also include the fact that when it comes to a statement by the Riigikogu concerning foreign policy or security policy, as I said, we do not do so very often, it will be informed at the same time and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And that wasn't the case. I also stressed in our debate on 13 January in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the Reform Party unanimously supports the meaning and content of this statement and is voting in favour of it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U176	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Whether it was possible to assist Ukraine in the debate within the Commission, if, of course, it is necessary to support the word first, but, if necessary, also by force. Was that what we were talking about? And, of course, we know that Russia is quick to use gas as a weapon. Well, I guess we can feel it a little bit in our energy crisis here. Was there any discussion on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U178	Thank you. That is certainly a very relevant question. I must say that we did not go so far in the procedure for this draft statement, specifically, under the agenda, but if you will allow me to say two words, however, and say that indeed the statement, as we are about to adopt it here today, is a declaration, that is a presentation of our position, is our so-called collective vision of how we see what is happening in Ukraine or Ukraine in relation to their security situation, their country's territorial integrity, of course, from 2014 onwards, not only a threat, but, unfortunately, the real territorial integrity has been violated in the course of the occupation and annexation, which today is at risk of its expansion. And that is why it is natural to think that, if the Prime Minister comes here tomorrow with a political statement on security policy, I would expect that in this statement he will also present the concrete steps that the government has taken in recent weeks in providing real defence assistance to Ukraine or expressing its wish. I think it is certainly very important to do so with our allies, especially those who do not hesitate to provide defence weapons to Ukraine today. I am pleased to see that yesterday Britain sent two planes to Kiev with concrete defense aid, with a defence weapon. The United States has done the same. It was saddening to hear yesterday the statement by the new German Foreign Minister in Kiev when he announced that Germany was not prepared to continue to provide defence aid in the form of defence weapons to Ukraine. At the same time, if Germany is one of the largest arms dealers in the world, including countries like some countries in North Africa or the Middle East, the question might arise as to why the choice of not being able to provide defence assistance to Ukraine, but to other countries is. There are, of course, discussions between the allies here, but Estonia's position has been quite clear, which also concerns our possible assistance through defence weapons, but also with Germany, for example, already mentioned. On the other hand, we have a good example of how the donation of the military field hospital to Ukraine should take place in the near future. This is undoubtedly a very important addition to their own resilience. But what is most important at the moment in the case of Ukraine is that we should not think as some of our allies have emphasised, that if Russia were to carry out an extended act of aggression against Ukraine, something would happen, that there would be an increase in deterrence on the east wing in NATO, or that there would be some additional steps in sanctions. I think that everything we have seen on the part of Russia, including the presentation of ultimatums to NATO, is sufficient justification for these steps to be taken today, including the granting of Ukrainian defence aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U179	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. The statement itself is relevant and fully in agreement with its content. Now, I also fully agree with your views that the Riigikogu statements, foreign policy statements, should be broad-based and all involved. In the Riigikogu, for example, there is also the Ukrainian support group, which I am a member of. I didn't notice, like, handling a statement there. We actually have a very active leader, Mati Raidma, who communicates with the Ukrainian community. I then just wanted to ask the Commission whether the Ukrainian support group was being discussed or involved in the Commission in any way in the process of processing this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U181	Yes, thank you, good George! That's such a very good point. In general, we in the Commission, I must admit, have not so far had the practice of involving members of a group of friends or a parliamentary group in the debate by making such statements. I will take this point with us, we will discuss it next time in the Commission, when the subject is then rising, no matter what, in this case it concerns Ukraine or some other foreign policy issue that is important for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U182	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U183	Thank you, dear waitress. A proper report and an extremely important statement. There is no doubt here that, I hope, he will receive the broad support of Parliament today and will be a signal to other representatives of the people in countries that are thinking like us to make similar statements. On the second topic, cooperation and the expression of international values from such broad platforms. Should we not also make a clear and strong supporting act to protest against the decision to close the Community Memorial in Russia? A specific proposal for discussion and support. January 31st is the place for setting up Nobel Peace Prize candidates. Shouldn't the Estonian Parliament appoint Memorial as a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize? What is your personal opinion, and how can it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U184	Thank you, good Urmas! We were at an event on the weekend, which Mikhail also helped to organize together with the Estonian Institute of Memory. And, in my opinion, this was a very grateful, very important event precisely in connection with the closure of Memorial. This is not just another act of repression by the Russian authorities in Russia, which has been carried out, it is an act of repression against the Russian people, the memory of the Russian people, their suffering. And I think that international attention, also in the case of Estonia, has been verbally made within the last few weeks. With regard to the whole process that has actually been going against Memorial for years and which has really been the result of two judgments which have decided to terminate Memorial. For those who may not know what it is, Memorial is one of Russia's longest-acting civil society organisations in modern Russia, in the late 80s he formally formed thanks to Andrei Sakharov in many ways and has served two purposes: firstly, to save Russia to be hostages to the past, hostages to the repression of the past and to help shed light on the fundamental aspects of Russian history relating to crimes against these people, crimes against humanity committed against citizens. Indeed, in 2013 I had the opportunity to visit Memorial's headquarters in Moscow, along with my colleagues, during the visit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we saw what work they have done, including the memory and memory of people deported from Estonia and the collection and preservation of related items and documents. Indisputably, it is at this moment which is being committed against Memorial, as if it is an organisation that violates Russian law on the basis of improper compliance with the law of an external agent. This is actually a crime against our own people, and I think that this attention from us in the context of Parliament, and if you specifically ask whether Memorial, for example, deserves to be nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, certainly deserves to be presented. I think it is very appropriate, as is Muratov, editor-in-chief of Novaya Gazeta, who also presented to us this weekend from Moscow, who received the peace prize because he, as a journalist in Russia, has tried to preserve and protect the free word of civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U185	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U186	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! In 2014, when Crimea was occupied, so-called green soldiers used as a distinguishing sign not to blow each other's heads off, the so-called Georgi tape. This means that from that moment on, the actual value and name of this tape has been devalued and can only be considered unambiguously as a tape of the occupying person. This has been the case in many other countries, including Latvia, which adopted the [decision] last year that the use of such tape is not permitted at public events. I understand that this is not written in the coalition agreement, and I do not believe that the coalition with the Centre Party would allow it, but would the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself agree to come before the Riigikogu with such an initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U187	Thank you, good Tarmo! Indeed, there was no specific mention of this issue during the procedure for this draft, and no one raised it directly. But the symbolism of ex-repressive bodies is always something, and one that reminds us of repression or occupation, praises it, the use of such symbolism is clearly an issue which might be worth discussing in the various committees of this Parliament. So I do not exclude the Committee on Foreign Affairs from discussing this issue at one point or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U188	Good waitress, no further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. Representatives of political groups or committees can take the floor during the negotiations. Please, Henn Põllaas on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U189	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U190	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U191	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The statement of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity is necessary and appropriate. It seales Estonia's position and gives a clear signal that we stand firm in behalf of the people's right to self-determination, peace, our friends and allies. However, I do not want to focus on the statement, but on what we are dealing with when we are talking about the Russian Federation. It is a country that has abandoned international law and agreements and has replaced them with threats, ultimatums and aggression. The military forces of Russia are greater than decades ago, despite the fact that the country's economy has stagnated, there are few functioning areas other than extraction and export of natural resources. The whole system is corrupt and dominated by inefficient state-owned or state-controlled companies. International sanctions restrict access to capital and technology. It also inhibits military development. In the West, Russia's capacity and hostility has been expected to decrease as its resources for aggressive foreign policy are decreasing, but this is an underestimation of Russia. Russia may be a declining country, but its economic and military potential remains significant. The Russian economy, as weak as it may be, is bigger and more resilient than they often think. It is often stressed that Russia's GDP of 1.5 trillion dollars is comparable to Italy. According to American analysts Kofman and Kendall Taylor, it is calculated on the basis of market exchange rates. The purchasing power parity raises it to 4.1 trillion, which makes Russia the second largest economy in Europe and the sixth largest in the world. Neither measure is accurate. One is underestimated, the other is overrated, but the comparison shows that the Russian economy is not so small and insignificant, but above all Russia is an unpredictable and crazy military force. Russia is the US's main nuclear competitor. Alongside NATO, they have the strongest army in Europe, which has been reformed since 2008 and has been heavily invested in. The transformation of the army in the West was neglected before 2014, which explains why Russia's military steps in Ukraine and Syria came as a surprise to many. The Russian army is at its highest level of preparedness, mobility and technical capabilities for decades. We must also consider Russian special forces, mercenaries and capable military intelligence and their space and cyber-war capabilities. NATO is, of course, stronger technically and in numbers, but it does not guarantee victory or the ability to discourage Russia in all possible conflicts. Therefore, Russia's military threat has not diminished since the beginning of the Ukrainian war and the occupation of Crimea, but has increased. Unfortunately, however, the funds allocated by Washington to deal with it decreased, because the Biden administration turned its eyes on China. Since 2020, the US has reduced its support for the European deterrence initiative, the US military presence in Europe by 19%. The transfer of this money to East Asia does not change the military balance vis-à-vis China, but created unnecessary risks in Europe. Speaking of Estonia, we cannot be satisfied with the recently approved national defence development plan approved by the government until 2030, in which the planned steps do not adequately reflect today's threats and our defence needs. If we're going to defend ourselves, we need to look at it now. Russia aims to destroy NATO, to demolish Europe's security architecture and to subjugate Eastern Europe to the Kremlin's dictatorship. In other words, restoring the Russian Empire and recreating spheres of influence. The destruction of Ukraine, which is not even a country, is only one stage here. Putin does not want to go down in history as the president who lost Ukraine and it is clear to him that the great Russia does not realise in a diplomatic way. He sees the weakness of the United States in leaving Afghanistan and the unwillingness to enter a foreign military conflict again. He does not take the European Union and NATO members of Europe seriously, as so far Russia's actions have mainly been responded to by fingering. Putin thinks it's a good time to realize what he wants. The arrogance and aggression of the Kremlin have been enabled by the naivety of the West, the relentless and cowardice of economic interests to confront Putin. Now our eyes have opened, but we still see certain flickering things. Munich and Yalta's breath isn't really gone yet. Russia has only a short moment in time to achieve its geopolitical goals before the spring settlements in Ukraine make the broader offensive difficult. The next window opens in the summer. It is therefore possible that we will see technical-military steps threatened by Putin in the coming weeks. To this end, however, not all the necessary force has been put together at the Ukrainian border: men, technology, governance structures and so on, but we can see how their numbers are steadily increasing. Fortunately, the balance of power is rapidly changing in a unfavourable direction for the Kremlin. NATO, as well as other European countries, has started to contribute much more seriously than before to defence and cooperation after the annexation of Crimea, the vigorous pressure on President Trump and Putin's threats. The key word is deterrence. The Kremlin's ultimatums have been rejected by both NATO and the US and allowed to respond to aggression in the harshest way. I hope that there will be no more setbacks from smaller countries. We all do. The further on, the harder it will be for the Kremlin to impose on Europe its crazy ambitions, but it may not matter. It is difficult to see a return, because the Kremlin deliberately makes unacceptable demands on the West and the Russian media echoes the accusations of the US and NATO and the rumble of the drums of war. Such conduct does not speak of a desire to find a peaceful solution. It all depends on what Putin decides with his generals. I don't think there's a final decision today. All of us: Estonia, NATO, Ukraine and many other democratic countries are threatened by one common enemy. We must maintain our unity and strengthen our defence capabilities. There is no place in this regard for accountability, cowardice and compromises. Russia will only give up its crazy conquest plans if it knows that its price is higher than it is willing to pay. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to Ukraine's statement of support, Estonia should also propose that the Russian Federation be expelled again from the Council of Europe. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U192	On behalf of the Reform Party Group Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of a pending statement. Today, where Russia's pressure policy to re-establish spheres of influence has led to a very tense international security balance and a direct crisis of Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity, every possible support for Ukraine is needed in words and works. Today, we must be on all fronts alongside Ukraine, both foreign policy statements in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as in practical cooperation, to support Ukraine's defence capabilities and the readiness of society to oppose various hybrid attacks. In addition to the statement to be voted on, the Ukrainian Parliamentary Group made a political statement on 16 July last year condemning the illegal annexation of Crimea, violations of human rights, in particular the oppression of minorities and racial discrimination against Crimean Tatars and the disregard of international law by the Russian Federation. Speaking of practical cooperation, I would like to acknowledge the active role of our Ministry of Defence in supporting the Ukrainian Defence Forces. The supply project of military field hospitals produced by our companies is a critically necessary contribution. Armed aid is also available when war breaks out. Our International Centre for Defence Research, which has for several years supported Ukraine's social cohesion and resilience to crises, or projects that build up beakers, can also be mentioned as a valued contributor. There are more and more of these practical activities. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of you who are involved in this and call on the new contributors to think along. In conclusion, the real aid to our good partner, Ukraine, includes words and deeds. Let's both be active. This will enable us to be stronger together to bear our national and national fundamental values. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U194	On behalf of the Isamaa Group Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U195	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am a member of the consensual Foreign Affairs Committee, I am a member of the Estonian-Ukraine Parliamentary Group, I am a member of the Riigikogu and I am pleased that this is a statement made by the Riigikogu when you read about it on paper. It does not matter at all who specifically initiates the declaration, it is our joint consensus statement from the Riigikogu that will be voted on. And I would like to thank you in advance for the results of this vote. It doesn't matter whether we've already made such statements, when, how many. I think that what is happening in Ukraine has been happening for a very long time and has been constantly actually putting us to sleep. Just because we get used to it, we get sleepy and indifferent about what's really going on there. I've been to Ukraine with a few speakers. There are probably still people who have been to Ukraine and, in fact, when they are there in Kiev, they do not understand that this country is at war. People sit in street cafes. Life feels like Tallinn, in the overall picture. But I've been here with a few spokesperson colleagues on the front line and I assure you that the war is going on all the time, that every day Ukrainian fighters are going to die. That is why it is the least we can do here for our part, continue to beat the drum as long as freedom is fully and truly achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U196	On behalf of the Socialists, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U197	President and colleagues of the sitting. One might ask that the Riigikogu has already stated its position twice, as this document suggests, four years ago and then four years before that. Such statements are not, after all, the Olympic Games, why do we have to make that statement again every four years? But in today's moment, this statement is very necessary. We must in every way assure the Ukrainians that we support their efforts, their sovereign right to decide which direction they choose as a country, which organisations they belong to. In the same way, it must be said unequivocally to the aggressor that Estonia is with Ukraine. Just as we, in turn, reaffirm through this, all the allies who think of us in the same way that it is unambiguously the choice of Ukraine, which direction Ukraine chooses, where it belongs, which organisations it wants to belong to. I therefore certainly call for a vote in favour of this statement by the Riigikogu. The Social Democrats support this statement. And I also thank the authors of the text. I agree in some ways with the criticism of the process of collecting signatures, which could have been a little smoother and more understandable, but the text itself is rarely accurate, containing everything that needs to be emphasised today, and it is not burdened with excessive ease of speech. That is why I think it is a good statement, and it is certainly supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U198	That is the end of the group's speeches. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission of directors has proposed the final vote on draft 501 AE, and since no amendments were tabled, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Riigikogu statement "in support of Ukraine's territorial integrity" 501. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U199	67 members of the Riigikogu supported the adoption of the application and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The statement has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U200	Our third item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Ivari Padar, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U201	Yeah. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs on Monday, 10 January. Members of the Rural Affairs Committee were present and Olavi Petron, Head of the Rural Policy Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, was present. It has to be said that there were no amendments to this draft law. It was decided to propose a draft of 459 on the agenda for the plenary session by 18 January (consensus), to propose the termination of the second reading (consensus) and, when the second reading is closed, to propose a draft of 439 on the agenda for the plenary assembly and to hold a final vote on 26 January 2022. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U202	You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U203	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question about that. I think we have now adopted on 5 April 2017 its climate or what it had targets for the year 50. Does this bill at this moment, which is, contain the same principles that we already approved here in the Riigikogu and should we review and review every four years, or is it now what it is, this greenedness here, this 55? Fifty-five, I guess. Which one's more in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U204	Thank you! Absolutely, he does not touch at all what concerns the future. The aim of the matter is what has been done, I think, already three times during the transition periods, where it is that the transition period is two years late, that the measures for the previous period are actually being implemented, but from the money for the new period. So this is actually a two-year delay in such a loophole. And that's what we've done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U205	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U206	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's keep pushing, it's nothing, but let's talk about the content, let's talk about their advisors, that I've realized that their quality isn't the best, and maybe you're enlightening, in what field should the most educate these advisors, which are the hottest subjects they're the dumbest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U207	I don't think there's any more time for us to say that we can really blame counselors for what we don't have. I've seen this counseling service side by side for 25 to 30 years. In this respect, it is true that at some point it was true that the specialists who went to counsel with the agricultural reform had failed, perhaps they did not give something very good and new. In today's case, however, it is important to accept in several categories that who needs this advice, who needs a very academic level, which the University of Life Sciences provides at the level of its teaching staff, and who needs, for example, to help the PRIA to apply. In this respect, the fact is that in this case, as is the case with counselors, it is strengthened and further training is done, it is good in every way, but I do not consider this advisory service to be bad today. I think it's a perfectly good subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U208	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U209	Thank you very much. Good waitress! The biggest problem with the European Union's common agricultural policy is that it is not united, that French farmers have certain concessions more than, say, Estonian farmers. And I ask whether this bill in any way evens or harmonises or improves the position of our farmers compared to, for example, French or Dutch farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U210	This draft does not concern this; this draft will, in a clean manner, implement the measures in this case until 2020 by 2023. In this respect, this draft itself does not concern a more equal treatment between Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-18_U211	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the case that we have a minute until the end of the sitting, and since there is at least a minute to ask a question, and Ivar will not have an answer because it will be two o'clock, we must ask Ivar to come back to the chair tomorrow at 14:00. So, ladies and gentlemen, the hearing is closed.
