ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our fifth working week Thursday session. First of all, we will be able to hand over drafts and enquiries. Looks like they're not coming. Then I have a message for you. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Morocco Parliamentary Group will take place in this Chamber, and it will be convened by Raivo Tamm. So who has an interest in Moroccan affairs, come on. Let's do the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U2	65 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, draft law 426 on the amendment of electricity market law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is a second reading. I call Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, as the rapporteur for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U4	Good afternoon, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are scheduled to amend the Electricity Market Act and other laws... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U5	Please, good ambassadors, let's keep the hall down!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U6	... draft 426 second-reading work materials. The draft law itself was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 September 2021. What about the bill? The fact that it transposes into national law Directive (EU) 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council on amendments to common rules for the internal market in electricity. These changes would bring real benefits to our electricity consumers, not only to electricity consumers, but also to gas consumers, and would provide consumers with more favourable fixed-term price agreements. They also address changes to the common rules for the internal market, which increase the opportunities for distributed production. Regulation on the establishment, development and management of energy communities and regulation on aggregation and demand response will also be envisaged, thereby increasing the flexibility of networks and the energy efficiency of consumers. Network operators shall be obliged to purchase flexibility mechanisms from the market through tender procedures. This is all in the interests of consumers. The draft also lays down the conditions for the network operator to develop market-based charging networks for electric vehicles. That would be a little bit of an overview of the benefits that come from here. Now for the first and second reading work that has taken place. By the deadline for tabling amendments, 27 October, amendments were tabled by the Isamaa Group. A large number of parties were informed about the procedure of the draft proposal in Parliament, of whom we received an opinion from AS Alexela, AS Eesti Gaas, Eesti Energia AS, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Solar Power Association, Elektrilevi OÜ, Ministry of Justice, Competition Authority, Estonian Electric Industry Association and Scener OÜ. The committee also asked our own Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for a legal assessment of some of the draft provisions. The representative of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also sent his views on the opinion on the draft to the Committee on Economic Affairs. On 1 February of this year, they submitted further proposals to the commission to clarify the electricity market law to be amended and to add amendments to the Law of Obligations Act and the Law on Natural Gas. All these opinions and proposals are visible on the draft map. The Committee on Economic Affairs has organised a number of working group meetings and Commission meetings in preparation for the second reading of the draft. To begin with, at the meeting of the Commission working group held on 8 October last year, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained in more detail the amendments to this draft, including the background and need of the amendment to the State Assets Act. The purpose of these changes is that the Supervisory Board of Elektrilevi OÜ should be independent of the entire Eesti Energia Group, i.e. the Supervisory Board must not be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Group, a member of the Management Board or any other leading person within the group. The objective is not to affect the operation of the distribution system operator nor to affect more favourable intra-group decisions vis-à-vis other market participants. Opinions were discussed in the Commission working group on 8 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also involved. On 17 November there was a discussion of the working group with interest groups, market participants, attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Competition Authority, Elektrilevi OÜ, Eesti Energia and the Estonian Electric Industry Association. At the working group meeting, the concerns of the referrals were discussed. It should be noted that the proposals negotiated at several meetings were also reflected in the list of amendments. On the basis of these, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications helped to prepare amendments. The main problem areas included subsections 22 and 23 of the draft, as well as paragraph 27 of the draft law, namely the amendment to Paragraph 18 of the Electricity Market Act, paragraph 52, which provided for a ban on the provision of services to the distribution company. The market participants here referred to a possible contradiction with the Constitution. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed to this. So this point was taken out of the bill at all. On 31 January this year, a debate was held in the framework of the Commission meeting with stakeholders to amend § 18 of the Electricity Market Act. It specifically addressed the issue of setting up the Board of Electricity. The purpose of the meeting was to explain the facts and circumstances to the members of the Commission. At the meeting of the working group on 4 February, the amendments were discussed again and a list of amendments was prepared. At the meeting of the Commission on 7 February, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications gave an overview of the opinions and proposals received which were not supported and which were not included in the list of amendments. They concerned support services, changes to the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act, improvements to the community provision on demand response and the deadline for the publication of information by the network operator. Feedback was also given on the Council's approach to independence. Various options were put forward for moving forward on the issue of the Council's independence. It was also a question of excluding the Council, the Council at all and initiating a separate draft, of excluding the Council as a whole, with some independent members, as well as the Council's full independence, i.e. going forward with the original wording of the draft and its additions. Here, I must also say preconceivedly that the wording 'fully independent' is conditional, because, for example, the Competition Authority has said directly that according to their view, Elektrilevi must be completely separated from the Estonian Energia Group, precisely in the interests of fair and equal treatment for the same market participants, and also in the interests of full independence. At the next meeting of the Commission on 10 February, amendments were discussed and voted on. As various alternatives were added to the previous sittings, they were discussed at the Commission meeting. As a result of the debates, the Commission supported the position and, in principle, maintained what was originally written by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or in its original draft, and this has also been slightly improved. According to the assessment made by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the restrictions imposed on the membership of the Supervisory Board of the distribution system operator and the electricity undertaking belonging to the same group are not derived from the Directive, as the members of the supervisory board cannot, according to the Commercial Code, be regarded as persons responsible for the management of the distribution company and as a structural unit responsible for the day-to-day management of electricity generation, transmission or supply within the meaning of Article 35 (2) (a) of the Directive. At the same time, it was stressed that there was no conflict with the Directive either. It is simply a question of whether the directive will be properly transposed, as it is now, or whether it will be transposed more rigorously with this draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has further explained that the draft will transpose a directive aimed, inter alia, at ensuring that the distribution system operator is absolutely independent from the development of production, sale, storage or charging infrastructure. All right. There is now a conflict of wording. There are different agencies and different positions, which are absolute independence and how to ensure it. In order to ensure this requirement, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considers that there must also be an independent council. The reason for the change on the Council has been that the European Commission received a complaint in autumn 2019 that Estonia has not correctly and fully transposed the provisions of the Directive concerning the separation of a group of electricity companies with a distribution system operator. For this reason, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has consulted the officials of the European Commission and, as a result of this consultation, has submitted the proposals made in its draft. The Competition Authority has pointed out that it is very important that, if the owner of the distribution system operator is itself an electricity undertaking (producer, seller or other service provider), it is ensured that the distribution system operator treats both competitors and the parent company equally. The Competition Authority has found that the most effective way to ensure the independence of Elektrilevi OÜ as a company is ownership unbundling. But they also support the solution set out in the draft. This solution would be, in their eyes, a partial solution, which actually has to lead to a final solution. Here I personally say that in all of this, I also had the impression and perception that the best solution here is the ownership separation of Elektrilevi from the Estonian Energia Group. On this basis, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, together with the Ministry of Finance, is now preparing an impact analysis, precisely on this distinction, and this, according to them, should be completed by August. They should come up with their proposals on differentiation in August and next autumn. Okay. Then there are the amendments on the list of 25 amendments. Two of them belong to the Isamaa Group; the rest are proposals from the lead committee, 20 of which have been submitted to the lead committee by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Amendments 6 and 22 were tabled by the Group of the Fatherland to the Committee on Economic Affairs. They are based on the understanding that a parent company must be entitled to appoint members of the supervisory board of its subsidiary. Amendment 6 therefore seeks to exclude from the draft the addition to paragraph 13 of § 18 of the Electricity Market Act, according to which the appointment and removal of the members of the Supervisory Board is proposed to the general meeting by the nomination committee referred to in § 801 of the State Assets Act. Amendment 22 seeks to delete the amendments to the State Assets Act and, in this respect, to amend the title of the draft, since then the State Assets Act should not be affected at all. This proposal was not supported by the initiator of the draft act, precisely for the above reasons. Now, there is still so much to note that the text of the draft text has passed the language editorial between the two readings and the resulting corrections are marked in the second reading text. The commission took the following procedural decisions: The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading by 17 February 2022, i.e. today, and that the second reading should be closed. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to make the final vote on 23 February 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U7	Thank you. It is now possible to ask questions. I would point out that the waitress reads questions in transcribed form, so give me some time. First, Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My first question relates to the fact that we want to transpose a much stricter directive than the directive itself prescribes. The MKM has said in both oral and written form that all the activities that are on this table today are necessary for the correct adoption of the directive. We have turned to the Riigikogu and the Committee on Economic Affairs, my own Legal and Analytical Department, who clearly said in black and white those doubts that we had before, that not all the changes that are on the table today are necessary for the adoption of the directive. The state can, of course, take it more rigorously, but if this is to be done, then it must also be clearly justified. That's my question. Do you agree that MKM has actually misled us, both orally and in writing, by saying that all these amendments are needed today to transpose the directive? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U9	Thank you. First of all, I would, of course, stress that I am here as a rapporteur for the Commission, and I am particularly expressing what the Commission has said. The Commission has found that more stringent transposition is justified. My personal opinion is slightly different from that, because property rights are also being violated here, Estonian Energia or, say, the right of the parent company to supervise the subsidiary, but this right is derived from the Commercial Code. Those questions, of course, remained up. But, of course, we discussed this in the Commission and came to the conclusion that this is probably justified at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U10	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! One change, which has also come in the procedure for this draft, is that the recording period that we had before, calculated for one hour, has now been moved to one year. Was there a debate in the Commission on why this is now a year? What does this really mean? Does it also mean that those homeowners or companies that have, for example, a solar park can, if they wish, offset by the year rather than by the current hour? Please open the options and restrictions for this annual recording period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U12	Thank you very much. This point was not discussed very thoroughly at the Commission's meeting because it is more technical and relates to the fact that we are now also coming up with the issue of electricity storage. In the past, the Electricity Market Act has been dealing with the issue of electricity transmission for one hour to determine such a transmission fee or not sufficient. But now that we're also talking about storing energy in storage devices or storage units, the storage period must also be taken into account. This annual accounting period, from 1 April to 31 March, also relates to the heating period, when more stored energy is needed and when it needs to be consumed. The transmission fee shall no longer be charged for the energy transmitted and stored within one year. In principle, this system is necessary in order to ensure that the transmission fee is not charged twice. In short, the transmission fee for the energy stored during the storage period does not have to be double. Yeah, it's kind of a technical point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U13	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U14	Good manager! Dear waitress, I read in one of your Commission's minutes that the boss of Eesti Energia Hando Sutter said that sharing the core network and distribution network should be understood in terms of cost. This means that network charges will continue to increase. If you want to do this for a better look at the situation, the price may be too high for society. But I couldn't find in the record whether anyone answered him or whether it was discussed. Sometimes protocols don't reflect everything they say. Was this discussed, and is Sutter's claim true?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U15	Yeah, specifically what you're saying, I can't comment. Really, this is the subject I remember, he brought it out in his story, but he didn't specify what that comment was about and what he was talking about in the first place. So I don't really know how to answer you, but I'm sure you can question him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U16	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U17	Thank you. I think it's schizophrenic that the owner wants to change the law to act like the owner. Tell me what prevents the owner from assigning such board members to carry out his will in energy policy. Why does he have to do it somehow, like heal his teeth through a part of his body other than his mouth? What's going on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U18	Yeah, that's a really nice question, really. There's really nothing to stop the owner, so far nothing to stop him from acting. On the contrary, the owner is now being prevented. Yes, but this is now justified by the European Commission, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and also by the Government. In fact, the situation is a little wider. We have a clause in the State Assets Act that determines the appointment committee for the appointment of the members of the boards of state companies. The government now considered that the mandate of the nomination committee could also be extended to appoint members of the board of state-owned companies. And that's how we fixed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U19	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You see, for a long time, Jürgen Ligi and I agree on something again. Maybe the basic principles are different, but there's something in common again. I also believe that, at this point in time, the general meeting, the state, the minister, should have the full opportunity to influence, take decisions and give guidance to the Council. But that's my question. Please comment on what actually happened before the last session of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I do not know, in the last 12 hours. My question is motivated by this, perhaps those in the Chamber do not know that 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting, we had, in fact, reached some kind of consensus among ourselves, in the Commission. We were ready to wait for some letters from the European Commission, we were ready to propose compromise solutions, up to that point. The Commission actually worked very constructively, but then there was a change in 12 hours. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What was the change? Was that some kind of clear guidance from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U21	Time, Sven!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U22	First of all, I would say that the first part of your question was not understood. Here the text was not translated correctly and I did not understand. But I understand the question. In short, the Commission had several proposals, all of which we discussed. Indeed, among our discussions was the issue of whether to ask further questions and send them to the European Commission. This would also have meant that we would have taken this issue out of this draft, because there are good things for the consumer inside and it is very important that this draft be adopted quickly. However, after consulting our Legal and Analytical Department, we also found out that there was no point in turning to the European Commission. This decision on how we move forward can only be national, because either the transposition of the directive in its minimum size, i.e. that we do nothing, or the more rigorous transposition of the directive, and then [should] take into account all the grey shades between these two points, two opinions and a position. Indeed, in the Commission, we discussed these matters thoroughly. We voted on the amendments as we voted on, and the result is specifically on this table. But that is what I say, as you said, is that there was a very constructive, very thorough debate in the Commission, and I would say a multifaceted debate. We really went deep on this Council issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to ask: why did you still decide to turn the directive on top of your head to make it tougher than Brussels prescribes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U25	Thank you for your question. It was the Commission's decision. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U26	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm following Sven Sester's question. We found it or, in fact, you actually offered a very good compromise. We also discussed this among ourselves, and it certainly deserved to be supported. I know how to say, your ability to delve, and you made this very clear to yourself. I'm sure you were in favour of the wording that we were in favour of. But the end result was that you had to eat your words. Tell me, is it really wise to put pressure like this and, let's say, to put a majority in place those things that really don't make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U28	Thank you. The principle is that democracy works in terms of majority voting, voting and majority choices. It's that simple. Thank you, of course, for that explanation. Yes, the suggestions were indeed made in a number of ways. The Commission will vote on them all and shape its opinion accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U29	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I am asking about the economic impact of this bill. It is generally said here that this could have a positive impact on our electricity prices in the future. But if you look at this bill and read the explanatory statement, there's nothing but general hope. There were, in fact, very thorough and lengthy discussions in the Commission, as is clear from this. So, what direction does this eventually affect our electricity price? Is it excluded that, after years, we would say: we wanted the best, but it turned out as usual not to be cheaper, but to become more expensive, to form communities of all kinds and everything else? Were you talking about it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U31	One moment... I answer as much as I understand, here the text goes completely...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U32	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U33	Yeah. When we talk about this draft, the draft as a whole and the transposition of the directive will be very, very useful for our society. I have mentioned the points here, and perhaps the most important of them are the changes to the fixed-price packages. This will increase the possibilities for choosing packages and make them more flexible. There will be an early termination of a fixed-term contract for both electricity and gas for a fine that will allow the price of this fixed-price package to be significantly reduced. When I say it by heart and remember it, for example, Eesti Gaas also pointed out these calculations. They are currently offering a gas price of EUR 80 for a maximum one-year contract, so when this draft comes into force, they could offer a one-year package of EUR 73 and, for example, have a fixed price of EUR 52 for up to three years. It's a remarkable price, I dare say, almost 40% cheaper. Electricity prices are unlikely to enter so big scissors, the situation is much tighter and competition is greater. But there's probably a pretty good discount here. Other things that are here and allow flexibility are, for example, energy communities and the possibility of aggregation, which allows consumers to manage their own electricity costs and electricity use. There is also a benchmark, a coordinated comparison between competition authorities, which enables consumers to always compare the prices of different price providers. There are also a number of other solutions that, above all, allow the everyday household consumer, as well as the otherwise electricity consumer, to manage their own consumption much better. That is why, to sum up, the importance of this draft is that it reduces energy prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U34	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U35	Thank you. I will continue my good benchmate's question. When he tried to get the answer to why the directive had been turned on hard, you replied that the Commission decided so. But I would like to explain why the Commission decided this way. Why are we making the recommendations of the directives mandatory and always turning 110 more winches, as if the common sense were no longer in the world? Please explain why the Commission decided to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U36	Thanks! Indeed, the Commission had very in-depth discussions around this whole issue. As I said, we went quite deep on the Council issue. We've considered options in and out of the country. In my presentation, I also said that the experts had conflicting opinions. Whether we like it or not, we had to express political will here in the Commission. I guess this political will was expressed in the votes, and that is how we got the result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U37	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. We can go to the negotiations. First of all, Sven Sester has signed up. Please! [[Sven Sester's asking for more time.]] Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would try a little bit to express my thoughts on the content and form of this particular draft, and I will start from a distance. I will first talk about the idea of the nomination committee and why it was ever created. I would remind you that it was about five years ago, if I am not mistaken, in the autumn of 2016. I myself was among the creators of the appointment committee as Minister of Finance at the time. I think it was a very sensible idea to set up a nomination committee, to create a situation where, in essence, the Committee of Experts is proposing to the Minister specific experts in its field of expertise on the boards of a particular state-owned or state-owned company. Then it is not dependent on politicians or, so to speak, on the backrooms of politics, as it had been before. I think it has worked very well for five or six years. The Estonian Energy Council has also been formed on the proposals made by the nomination committee and I think it works well. Now we've reached level two. Now we want to define one of the subsidiaries of Eesti Energia through the nomination committee. Look, guys, this is different. An interesting situation arises where, when the nomination committee is appointed by the subsidiary board, Eesti Energia actually no longer has the right to drive, either formally or essentially, because it has not defined the board. He has not defined the council as the parent company of Eesti Energia, as a general meeting. And actually, it's really hard for him to give directions, because someone else has put it in place now. Look, here comes the problem that Jürgen Ligi asked about. Do we not trust this nomination committee, which is defined at the level of the parent company of Eesti Energia? Or is there another problem? This is where I get to the second stage of my presentation today. The argument put forward by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on this point is that the amendment to the draft proposal, which is now on the table, is necessary in order to adopt a directive of the European Union. You see, this statement in its full composition is wrong. There are a number of amendments to this draft which are necessary for the adoption of the European Union Directive. But what I am talking about today, or the nomination committee at subsidiary level, is not necessary under the European Union directive. In order to admit this claim erroneously or to give feedback on the fact that it is wrong, we also took an analysis from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, which is written in black on white. It says that, yes, the state, of course, has the right to have a political will in this case to take decisions, but the need to make such a decision is not a result of a directive, but a result of political will in that case. Of course, political will can be realised without arguing against it, which is the triumph of democracy. But this is not about the directive. MKM says in its explanatory memorandum that these amendments are necessary, because otherwise we will not be able to adopt the directive. It's wrong, and it's gonna have to be dropped from this podium many times, as long as all parties understand. Once again, I stress: if there is a desire to separate Eesti Energia and Elektrilevi, we will analyse it. Let us analyse this, find out whether it is economically and rationally justified. Well, if he is, then it's time to get a divorce. But right now I have another reason to quote Jürgen Ligi from this speaker for the second time today, who, at the will of chance, said exactly the same words as I said in the Commission. In fact, we are going to treat our teeth through a completely different way, through a part of the body other than the mouth. By the way, I was thinking about how this unfortunate consultant in the Commission is going to put my relatively impressive expression on record. The Commission's protocol was written that Sester said: ["It seems now that this objective is heading in the wrong direction. " Perhaps we would like to start solving it by a different way. That's how the protocol was written down. I was wondering how this embossed wording could be recorded in the record. So the truth is, we're going to solve the problem in a completely different way. And what have we done? We've done such a thing that we've taken analysis from the Legal Department. We've been asking the Competition Authority for information on how they see it. The Competition Authority said that they are currently carrying out an analysis of the electricity market and the whole of it, and they said that they will be able to complete this analysis in a few months' time. In the Commission, we agreed at that time with the knowledge that we would wait for this analysis and then we would get much smarter and we would know how to proceed. Moreover, Eesti Energia had sent a letter to the European Commission asking whether the measures we want to take here today were necessary and so on. We also agreed in the Commission that we would wait for the first information from the European Commission and then move on to this matter. That was the knowledge we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs. And I really congratulate Jüri Jaanson here, who was willing to think constructively and also to make his proposals. I'm talking about these proposals right now. What do we know today? We know that the Legal and Analytical Department has said that such changes do not need to be made. That's right, politically, but there's no need for that. We know that the Competition Authority will be coming up with an analysis in the coming months, and we know that Eesti Energia has withdrawn the letter from the European Commission. A rare situation, withdrew his letter, abandoned his inquiries. Why would he do that? Because the general meeting in the form of the Minister for Finance said to him: withdraw the letter, we in the government do not want this letter to be sent to the European Commission. Eesti Energia on black white, I assure you, has informed the European Commission that they no longer want an answer. That's right. That's right. This is a guideline given by the government to the current Minister of Finance. I'm getting to the end of my speech. Our last meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs was an interesting meeting, and I also asked that the emotions and thoughts that were involved be recorded. It was an interesting meeting in this sense that at the beginning of the meeting the various parties of the coalition gave their thoughts, their identities. I hope I'm not quoting anyone wrong. Siim Kallas, who is also in this Chamber today, said directly that friends, in fact, we should not be dealing with this today, which is related to the appointment committee, the mother and the subsidiary. He said if there was a need for a divorce, we'd discuss it and we'd do it, wouldn't we? But it seems that it is now beginning to cover the other parts of the directive that we need today. Let's get back to that. However, Mr Kallas added, of course, to the point that, frankly, as such a guideline has come from the government, he naturally supports the government because he is a coalition politician. Mr Stalnukhin first said in the Commission that he did not support the amendments that say that we need to do these nomination committee things. As the Commission progressed, it finally said: well, I have understood that I think I should support it. I would point out that the vote was in favour of 5 and 3 against, that Mr Stalnukhin would have voted the other way, that there would have been a situation of 4: 4, of course. Jüri Jaanson quite frankly said: friends, I have made my proposals, I see compromise points here, but I have a problem with voting on new proposals or an old position. And Jüri Jaanson did not participate at all in the vote on these proposals. In this sense, I want to say today that we are in a situation where, in fact, the government has actually put pressure on Parliament to take the current decisions, although in fact Parliament has already reached some reasonable agreement. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In this context, the proposal of the Fatherland to interrupt the second reading is to come back to this subject in an operational manner, as there are sensible things in this draft, and to continue its procedure immediately and quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U39	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U40	Let's get a few more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U41	Three more minutes now, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U42	Although they may not be needed, but you don't know. I do not want to talk about the directive, nor do I want to follow this directive, nor have I read this directive, but I do want to explain why I am in favour of radical separation of the Estonian Energy and Electricity Council. Here, on these issues, and also on Sven Sester's speech, [it came through that] it is automatically certain, like the Amen Church, that these two companies must be one whole and run in the same way. That is certainly not the case. I want to bring back a few memories of history. Indeed, this separation of the Soviets is a bit of a trifling issue, which is why it seemed to me in the Commission that it might not have to be discussed, but there is, in fact, a rather important nuance in it. I would tell Sven that, paraphrased by Adenauer, who said that nothing would prevent him from getting smarter in a year, that nothing would prevent me from getting smarter in the committee session over time. But why am I in favour of separation? Because I don't trust Eesti Energia. At one time the Estonian government wanted to privatise Eesti Energia in several formations in a row. The process started wrong and eventually ran into a dead end. It was decided to leave Eesti Energia to the state. There was an idea that he was going to produce oil shale electricity, that's all. But Eesti Energia began to expand itself into the Estonian economy as a whole. Why did he engage in wind farms by preventing private entrepreneurship in this area, with all possible means, when there was a considerable interest in investing private capital in wind farms? Complaints from wind farms were overlooked in political circles. Why did Eesti Energia start building an oil shale oil production plant when the private sector was already working on it? All doubts were overcome by the propaganda machine of Eesti Energia, because at the same time the propaganda service of Eesti Energia was bigger than the respective service of all parties. The economy also has its own policies, and the economy also wants power. I have always seen the aspirations of Eesti Energia to expand its influence in the economy. What about responsibility? If we have a public electricity company, why are we unable to provide affordable electricity supply? Part of Eesti Energia was taken to the stock market. That's the thing. But small shareholders do not have to create an illusion that they control the activities of a large company. The privatisation process in Estonia was considered to be one of the most successful in Eastern Europe. There were few complaints, few trials. But I would point out that the logic of the privatisation process supported the core investors and fair competition between them in a fair, open competition. It's forgotten. Estonia made a heel turn when it bought back the railway company that was privatized to the state. 30 years ago, we thought that the development engine was private business. In this speech, we feel the same way today, but in reality the state is relying on state-owned kolos, which are cramped to hold every square centimeter of influence, including through other companies owned by them. Thank you. There was no time left.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U43	There was no time left. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Oh, no, sorry! It's before... You wanted a recliner, Heiki, right? [[Heiki Hepner answers from the floor.]] Got it. Then it's Urmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U44	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U45	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U46	Siim Kallas is leaving this hall, but I have to admit, with astonishment, I listened to his attack on Eesti Energia. The good thing is, he didn't hide the real intentions of the government. Instead, this is an attack on Eesti Energia. The object of the criticism is the production of an oil shale oil plant. Heavens, have mercy! One intelligent investment that we have made and which we could be proud of at the same time reveals that this is the basis of reproach for expressing distrust of Eesti Energia. Secondly, the men of the wind lobby say that the development of Enefit Green has been a mistake. I think that this has been a successful project now, after all, one of the largest companies in the Baltic States, as well as the privatisation of minority shareholdings, not at the core investor principle, has exponentially and so nicely and joyfully revived our capital market. So I don't agree with this kind of attack. The idea from this attack that the Elektrilev Council would appoint nomination committees is, in fact, the wrong law to regulate it. The State Assets Act regulates the principles of the Business Appointment Committee. If there is such an approach to form a hybrid management for State group-based companies, this should be done universally. It should be said that the company of Eesti Energia Utah, which operates, I think, under the laws of this state, also appoints a nomination committee there. Or we can take the Tallinn Port Group. The Port of Tallinn is a ferry company, et cetera, et cetera should be it. This is precisely a matter of doing things on an individual basis, and it is certainly unreasonable. However, it is worth considering the subsequent privatisations of minority shareholdings, such as minority shares in the core network, in order to revitalise our capital market. We see how successfully Lithuania has privatized this minority shareholding. Very positive, very interesting, very attractive stock on the national capital market. It is precisely the Reform Party that has been opposed to privatisation by the government over the years. Paradoxically, in recent years, the privatizations that have taken place have given rise to positive signals from the national capital market, precisely in those governments where there is no Reform Party. It is true that I did not understand whether the good previous speaker criticised or praised the decision that Estonian Railways, sold with a billion kroons, were bought back with two billion kroons. This brilliant business deal was born how? I'll sell it with a billion. I'll buy it back with two billion in a few years. After all, this scandal-shadowed business transaction took place in the transport of the Reform Party when the Reform Party and the Central Party were in the government. In summary, this is a poor policy. If the question is that there is no trust in Eesti Energia, then I do not understand what is meant by it. Does this mean the CEO of Eesti Energia? Does this mean the Council? Or what does the position of the government coalition mean: "We do not trust Eesti Energia, a national and larger electricity company"? If you don't, and actually don't trust management moves, I conclude that criticism goes to managers, not passively just about the company's assets, so the company's assets are not trusted, the assets are not trusted, it's bad management. And from a corner [managing], as we heard here Sven Sester's amazing revelations about the general meeting, how the acting Minister of Finance has put pressure on Eesti Energia in these manoeuvrings, I think it certainly does not go hand in hand with good governance. In summary, I would ask everyone to support the proposal of the Fatherland. We are wanted by this law to plant such a Brezhnev package in the preparation of a seemingly innocent European directive. Mr Kallas I now call for the next line to repent of sin and to state clearly that the saga of both the sale and redemption of Estonian Railway was not a rational step in economic terms. The Reform Party, of course, has reason to regret this glorious page in its history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U47	And now there's a remorse, isn't there? Please, Siim Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U48	I thank you very much for giving such attention to my person by the previous speaker. First of all, I've been saying what I've always said and what I've always thought about in the last 25 years, God knows. I have believed in private business and therefore have different views. I also spoke here, not on behalf of the party, but primarily on my own behalf. But it's God's truth. I've always publicly criticized this railroad buy-back. So here I don't need to repent of any sin, I've always been in that position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U49	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I just came in here for a second. I will see that this bill is now a matter of dispersal and being disbanded, and my esteemed previous speakers have taken it up and down. First of all, monopolistic governance and monopolistic governance in the market are generally not good, but in our small society it is quite inevitable. But what I want to draw attention to, and what I actually came here to say is this: the subject we are arguing about here right now is half the way, it's half the egg. This is how a parent company should manage its subsidiary, whether it will then be able to monitor its property there through the board, to manage it, as our business code says. However, our ultimate goal is to ensure that equal treatment prevails in the market. Therefore, these important companies in our business market would be independent in this sense. I merely recall that the Competition Authority has been pointing out here in the Riigikogu since the beginning of this whole draft procedure that the best solution is the ownership separation of Elektrilev from the Estonian Energia Group. I have come to the exact same conclusion, and I am based on the fact that we have to move to that point. If I have anything to complain about, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it was that, according to the original information, last autumn we had the knowledge that this impact analysis, which would result in the separation of the distribution company from the group, would be completed by the beginning of this year at the latest, in February. But it didn't happen because the procurement failed. Well, it's okay, it happens. Now, together with the Ministry of Finance, a new tender is being prepared, and announced. As a result, this impact analysis should reach us in August. Then we can make those decisions. But what is clear? The fact that ownership unbundling must be carried out, even if you listen to your previous speakers, is an inevitable, inevitable final destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U51	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U52	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought, at first, that I would only devote myself to one question, perhaps a little wider, but now, in the course of the debate, there is another issue that cannot be overlooked. By way of introduction, we could say that this draft is certainly important in one sense: we must transpose the directive. But the problem is not the transposition of the directive, but it is that we hope it will have a positive impact on our energy market. Our energy prices are becoming more affordable, our businesses can develop, energy communities are emerging, and they need to be regulated, in this sense this draft is certainly appropriate. But what I absolutely do not like is that their political will is somehow being tried to hide behind the European Union directive. It's such an incredibly disgusting thing. I don't know if it's from the Soviet era and it's stuck with us. Then they said it would be here, but that Moscow is turning its rules on us, and there's nothing we can do about it. Now it is the other way round: we would still like to do it here, but this directive is what we get served on, and what we poor people can do. Such rhetoric is not dignified. Such rhetoric is not dignified toward us. This rhetoric is also not worthy of the respectable collection where we are now. In Estonia, we decide our own affairs. And when we have agreed that we will take over some directive, we will say honestly: yes, we will take over. Everything that we put in there with our political will must be said clearly in the same way: we have these, these and these things have put more of our own wisdom here, I do not know whether it is a better or a worse understanding. But we should not get behind the European Union's command tables. That was actually what I wanted to say at first about this bill. But I was a little startled by the speech of a good colleague, Siim Kallas, when he said that he did not trust Eesti Energia. Well, I also very much support private entrepreneurship and see that, of course, Estonia's development must be based on strong private entrepreneurship. This is clear: the country must deal with as few things as is absolutely necessary. There is no doubt about that. But a respected colleague said that he does not trust Eesti Energia. But actually, if we think a little bit further, we ask who will realise the ownership rights of Eesti Energia. Minister of Finance. It is a direct statement that Siim Kallas today does not trust the Minister of Finance, nothing less. It makes you wonder what's going on. Yes, indeed, we could also have more private capital in energy production. We also discussed this issue in this Chamber, why, when there was a partial privatisation of Enefit Green, so little was put up for sale to our national capital. Why did the Estonian people have so little participation in the subscription of shares and also become owners of energy production? It's a place of concern, really. We haven't heard anything about that. Now we are moving on to a fairly wide range of subjects with this law, but there really is, in my opinion... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U53	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U54	...reason to think. So I actually call on you to give up the idea that we should appoint the members of the Supervisory Board of our subsidiary of Eesti Energia through the nomination committee. Because, as we have already heard here, it obscures all the principle that we have applied so far and which has justified itself in every way. So let's make this law better. We interrupt this reading, we clean up the nomination committee's problems, we trust our country's large companies, whether they are in private hands or state-owned. If there is mistrust, we will, of course, resolve the issues of distrust. But we should certainly not, in making decisions here, go lightly behind the directives of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U56	Good manager! Colleagues! I am not a member of the Economic Commission, but I am in the Committee on the Environment. I really care about the price of electricity and the shelve. When we discussed here on 13 October, you remember, there was not yet what started to come later, there were no many speakers and no questioners. Sven was here, I asked, and the minister stood here, we talked about the energy communities and all that. Ah, then I looked at the fact that this text was sent on 20 September, eight pages in which it was discussed, which is the final price and all of it in general, what the share of the network service for households and large consumers is. Well, here's below, you see, here households are the biggest and large consumers are much smaller. And then there was the carbon price table. Well, it's out of here since then. But it was September 20th. So, what happened later? I have now read with interest the minutes of the discussions that have taken place in the Commission. I'm not gonna go over the nomination committee and all these things right now. But yes, indeed there is Elering and Elektrilevi, etc., core network and distribution network, this so-called last mile. Well, the last mile is, lately, something that I don't really want to talk about right now on the high-speed Internet, it's just a coincidence of words. I asked about it here, and I read in the record how Hando Sutter said that it actually meant a continuing increase in network charges. As he says here, all of this is done for the better looks of the situation, and this price may be too high for society. The same, according to these charts, everything is going to be even more expensive. Now I hear from my colleague, Siim Kallas, that Eesti Energia is the devil and must be destroyed. After all, Siimu's daughter, Prime Minister, is our biggest wind lobbyist. Indeed, Eesti Energia's own oil factory and windmill projects are of course interfering with private operators. What would I like to say here? Another directive, which was his number, 944 I think. The move is in the right direction, towards a cleaner world and towards cheaper electricity and energy. Agreed. But how is it done? At its own pace and nationally in the shadow of the directives, in this case no. 944, much more is being tried to turn on the winch. As I understand what my fellow Members have said and the protocols are, in fact, trying to weld some of my agenda to this directive. It's not pretty. Neither I nor our group like that. So, in fact, if this rejection vote is to come, you could say, figuratively, that the question is who will trust Eesti Energia and who will not. According to the proposal of my colleague, Mr Kallas, those who vote against its rejection will attack Eesti Energia. Let me remind you, no matter what someone thinks about Hando Sutter, but he has clearly said... although the Commission has not responded to this, that in fact it means an increase in network charges and all that. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U57	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U58	No, it's not. I'll just finish the sentence. It is hidden in the shadow of this directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U59	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. There are about 25 of them. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken the amendment fully into account. The second amendment is also proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Commission. The fourth amendment, the author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment, which is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The 6th amendment is tabled by the Isamaa Group and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U60	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U61	Got it. Let's do the hall call again. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a second reading of draft 426; we are in the middle of amendments. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been asked to be put to the vote and rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U62	21 members supported the amendment, 45 against it. The amendment was not supported. The seventh amendment, the author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The eighth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The ninth amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The tenth amendment, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 11, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Commission has taken full account of this. Amendment 12, the author of which is also the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the commission has taken full account. Amendment 13, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken this fully into account. Amendment 14, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal have been fully taken into account. Amendment 15, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 16, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 17, also by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Commission itself. Amendment 18, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken full account of this. Amendment 19, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of it. The 20th amendment, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal have been fully taken into account. Amendment 21, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 22, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U63	Thank you. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U64	I shall put to the vote Amendment 22, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U65	There are 20 Members in favour of the amendment, 46 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 24, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of this amendment. Amendment 25, the author is the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Commission itself has taken full account of this. The amendments have been examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 426 be stopped, but the Isamaa Group has proposed that the second reading of draft 426 be suspended and that is what we are going to vote on. Do you need a hall call? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 426. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-17_U66	19 delegates supported the interruption, 46 against it, no abstentions. The motion has been rejected. Second reading is complete. Our agenda today is over. The sitting is adjourned. Stay here for all those who want to do the Estonian-Morocco joint business.
