ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is 10 a.m., we will start the meeting of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 16th working week. Now, as always, it is possible to hand over drafts or enquiries. Excuse me, Mr. Kaljulaid! I'm sorry for a second. Mr. Stone Mountain, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. By accident. Got it. Please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party has always proposed important reforms concerning the labour market, and so this time too we have prepared one extremely important draft, which provides that a person of 18 years of age can also work as a security officer or on-call worker. In fact, you probably don't know that the current law sets that limit at 19 years of age. Our security companies have a huge shortage of labour, while there may be young people who would like to take up a job as a security officer or a security guard, but they cannot do so because there is a completely unjustified requirement in the law that this profession can be held from the age of 19. At the time when the Riigikogu lawd it, this was justified by the fact that a person cannot go directly from the high school bench to work as a guard somewhere, such as guarding a warehouse at night. This justification is not relevant, of course, but a person can also graduate from secondary school in Estonia at the age of 19, 20, or even 46. So in order to change this great injustice and the distortion of the labour market, we have thoroughly worked through the matter and prepared a draft which has been digitally handed over and provides for the amendment of the security law. I very much hope that this is one of those drafts that will receive at least the same consensus and broad support in this House as the increase in family allowances has been received. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U3	Well, I don't see any more wishes. We will, of course, decide on the future fate of this draft in the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U4	Currently 74 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U5	We are going to the review of today's agenda. The first item is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2021, which is presented to us by Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank. In this report, we have a 20-minute report from Madis Müller first. Every member of the Riigikogu will then be able to ask an oral question if he or she so wishes. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, please! The Chair of the Riigikogu awaits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U6	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Once a year Eesti Pank has an obligation and the opportunity to report to the Riigikogu on its activities. Today I want to give you an overview of the most important activities of Eesti Pank last year. I am also talking about the health of the euro area and the Estonian economy, and I have to admit right away that the situation has actually changed quite significantly by [compared to] the time of last year's summaries. This is particularly true, for example, of price increases and their prospects. Last year, the central banks had the assumption that the accelerated increase in prices resulting from the recovery from the Coronavirus pandemic will soon be sustained as companies adapt, supply chains get back to work and life returns to normal rhythm. However, the war unleashed by Russia in Ukraine has disproved these expectations. The rise in the prices of energy carriers and other raw materials has gained further momentum and the recovery of supply chains is delayed due to war and sanctions. First of all, I am talking about monetary policy, which is the central bank's main tool for curbing price increases. Stable and small price increases are the central bank's main objective, as they contribute to the long-term growth of our economic well-being. As Estonia is a country of the euro area, one of the most important roles of Eesti Pank is to develop a common monetary policy with other central banks in the euro area. Last year, I described to you here how the European Central Bank reacted quickly and very strongly when the pandemic crisis broke out, to calm down the alarming markets and to continue to ensure reasonable credit conditions for businesses, households and also governments. To this end, we launched an emergency bond support programme and offered commercial banks loans at exceptionally favourable interest rates so that the banks could, in turn, continue to lend this money to the economy. The Estonian government also benefited from low interest rates when the bond markets were borrowed to support the economy in times of crisis. Thanks to Estonia's membership of the euro area and the exceptional support measures of the European Central Bank, Estonia was able to do so under very favourable conditions indeed. To date, the euro area economy is recovering from the pandemic crisis and, in a context of rapid price rises, the current economic activity and hence the measures by the central bank to stimulate price increases are no longer appropriate. Also, interest with a negative sign is about to become history. This effect gradually reaches Estonian borrowers through the rise in interest rates in Euribor. Let me give you an example of what this means for one of the average home borrowers. In particular, the Estonian people are affected by the six-month Euribor, which was still around 0.5% at the beginning of this year, but is now rapidly approaching zero. The monthly payment of a home loan will be affected by the rise of the Euribor when it comes to getting out of the minus. For example, if the loan amounts to EUR 100000 and the repayment term is 25 years, each percentage of the increase in the Euribor will mean an increase in the monthly loan payment of around EUR 50. This does not pose any significant problems, as banks follow the rules of Eesti Pank when granting loans and assess and calculate that the borrower can manage at a much higher interest rate. However, the fact that people will have less money for other expenses if the loan payments increase is inextricable. As a central bank, we have been stressing for years that supreme interest rates do not last forever and people taking long-term loans should assess their ability to repay the loan even in the case of higher interest rates. This moment of truth is now coming. Although, in fact, we have to admit that, after the first increase in interest rates by the central bank, interest rates remain very low in historical comparison. However, there is reason to expect the relatively rapid growth of Estonian people's incomes to continue in the coming years. This, in turn, will make it easier to service loans taken in the future. In summary, the central bank is reducing monetary policy support for the economy. In addition to the monetary policy that we do jointly in the euro area, Eesti Pank is responsible for the stability of the financial sector in Estonia. This concerns, among other things, the requirements that we impose on the financial sector. When the pandemic broke out, we cut the systemic risk capital buffer requirement for commercial banks to zero as a crisis measure. With this step, EUR 110 million of capital was released for the banks, which they could have used if necessary to cover possible loan losses and also to issue new loans. Fortunately, the impact of the pandemic crisis remained smaller than feared in Estonia and the banks have remained strong. In this way, we were able to decide that we could end this relief and restore the buffer requirement, perhaps here too, we are gradually tightening up the central bank's policy. In addition, we closely monitored what was happening on the real estate market. In our view, for example, it was a step in the right direction that the conditions for KredEx's guarantee were revised and clarified last year. We believe that this is a better targeting of public support for first-home buyers. Now, in general terms, about other activities of Eesti Pank, which could be highlighted. We updated Eesti Pank's strategy last year. Our main tasks have been established by law, but they always leave room to decide which areas to contribute especially in the near future. This time, the biggest change in our strategy was the addition of sustainable development. We started to evaluate and monitor the carbon footprint of our investments with a view to reducing it in the future. We set the same goal as an organization. We are trying to reduce energy consumption, deliver more sustainably in all respects, and change many habits to do so. In the field of sustainability, Eesti Pank's proposal to consider solutions would reduce the need for the central bank to issue one- and two-quarter coins. In fact, we produce dozens of tons of them every year at Eesti Pank and this is a pretty serious burden on the environment. In the Riigikogu, as legislators, you have the opportunity to minimise the need to issue these small denomination coins by establishing rounding rules. We have kept the topic up by Eesti Pank and I hope that we will find a good solution here in the near future. Every year, if we put into circulation dozens of tons of coins that people don't use to pay in general, society's view is just a waste. Especially in the second half of last year, the priority for Eesti Pank is to prepare for crisis situations. The central bank is responsible, among other things, for the smooth operation of vital services such as payments and cash circulation in Estonia. Together with commercial banks, we have done a variety of exercises to find out how to make business continuity even better. For example, in the case of payments, we played through different data failure situations. Our aim is to ensure that interbank settlements operate at least once a day in situations where there is no access to pan-European payment systems. Eesti Pank is also responsible for the adequate availability of cash. In case of possible increased demand, we have both our own margin and the opportunity to quickly replenish the central bank's cash reserves. We have also specified cooperation with the Treasury in case electronic channels do not work and the government needs cash to make payments. These are just some of the latest examples. Of course, we have continued activities related to strengthening the information systems of Eesti Pank and improving security. In the area of payments, we completed a special project last year, which we did with the company Guardtime, concerning digital euro. We tested with this project whether the technology underlying Estonia's digital state could also fit into the so-called basic technology of digital central bank money. We found that technically this would be possible, but now discussions are continuing at the level of the European Central Bank. As an advisor to Eesti Pank, we have continued regular meetings with members of the government and the Riigikogu. We are always prepared to discuss the economic situation and all issues concerning Eesti Pank, both with Riigikogu committees and with political groups. In addition, we have continued to organise public seminars to provide a platform for discussion on important issues from the perspective of society and the economy, such as recovery stronger than the crisis or the situation on the labour market. The main messages or recommendations of Eesti Pank were largely due to the fact that the Estonian economy was able to overcome the pandemic crisis much faster than initially expected. This led to a situation where an additional incentive by the State was no longer needed to a large extent. One of the key recommendations was therefore to set a rate for public finances to exit the budget deficit. Even now, we find it worrying that the difference between the income and expenditure of the Estonian state has already become permanent in the state budget. I will also say a few words about statistics, which is an important area for us. Eesti Pank is the second producer of national statistics in Estonia alongside Statistics Estonia. Last year we also started publishing additional interest rate statistics and statistics on savings and loan cooperatives, for which there has been quite a strong interest. But so much for our daily activities. Next, I will look at our understanding of the outlook for the outside world and Estonian economy. The recovery from the Coronary crisis in the world continues, but due to Russia's attack on Ukraine, we faced a new crisis. Not to mention the human tragedy, the impact of this has further accelerated the rise in energy prices, which occurred already last year when supply did not catch up with the rapid recovery of demand. In fact, it was already seen last year that Russia reduced the volume of gas stocks held in Europe, which was also an important factor in increasing energy prices. The outbreak of the war in February this year, with subsequent sanctions, gave new impetus to the rise in energy and the price of various raw materials. The food is also getting more expensive. Ukraine and Russia are both important exporters of agricultural products. Inflationary pressures on the world economy are compounded by China's very severe restrictions to prevent the spread of the corona virus, which has delayed the recovery of supply chains. At this point, I would like to make it clear that the central bank's decisions have an impact on the price increase with a delay of around one and a half to two years. It usually takes about this much time, for example, to reflect interest decisions in the overall price increase. It is therefore important for us to assess, above all, the more lasting price pressure. We will also monitor the expectations of price increases in the financial markets, businesses and consumers with a longer view. We would like to see them close to 2%, but in recent months these expectations have also shifted alarmingly higher. On the positive side, however, the labour market situation in the euro area has never been as strong and unemployment has never been as low as today. The most recent forecast for the euro area has been published last week by the European Commission's economic forecast, in which the outlook for economic growth in the euro area was reduced from 4% to 2.7% this year before the outbreak of the war and inflation expectations were raised from 3.5% to 6.1%. Also next year, inflation in the euro area will exceed 2% of the level we target as a central bank. In Estonia, the European Commission sees growth slowing to 1% after an 8.3% growth rate last year. The average annual inflation is forecast at 11.2% this year. These were recent assessments by the European Commission. Eesti Pank's new economic forecast will be published in a few weeks' time. The recovery of the Estonian economy from the corona crisis was very rapid compared to other European Union countries. Before the end of February, the assessment of the economic cycle was still very positive. This was particularly evident in the labour market, where entrepreneurs identified labour shortages as a major obstacle to growth. Resources in the economy were implemented to the extent that additional investments were already clearly required for the continuation of growth. But the picture has clearly changed since the end of February. Uncertainty has grown. In some cases, input prices have increased very sharply for companies, and as a result, some investments are likely to remain on hold. At the same time, consumer confidence has suffered less than the average in Europe. On average, however, the growth of Estonian people's incomes is quite rapid, which has accelerated even further in recent months. We must ensure that we do not get into the spiral of wage and price growth, which Estonia was warned about by the International Monetary Fund, which has just completed its visit. This would jeopardise the competitiveness of our exporting sector. The labour market is currently strong in Estonia's overall economic picture. At the same time, surveys by companies show that the expectations of recruiting new workers have been weakened, as under precarious circumstances growth plans are more cautious. Today we also see the need to closely monitor developments in the real estate market so that the momentum does not get too high. The activity of transactions in the real estate market has been quite high over the past year. The problem is, above all, that the supply of new real estate is less than the desire to buy, which pushes up prices. On behalf of the central bank, we have not yet changed the rules on housing loans, but we will certainly monitor these developments and, in the case of rapid credit growth, we are prepared to tighten the conditions if necessary. I now come back to one of the main concerns of Estonia's life today, which is very rapid price increases. Nearly half of our rapid price increase comes from the cost of energy supplies. In addition, food prices are increasing as world market food prices increase. At the same time, we have to admit that the price increase has become more widespread in Estonia, increasingly affecting industrial goods and services. As I described earlier, the central bank is doing its part at euro area level to curb price increases. However, it is very important that government spending does not create excessive price pressure in order to control the price increase in Estonia. Fiscal policy has a clear role to play in controlling inflation. It is unwise to act with one leg, or monetary policy, slowing down and with the other giving gas. This also means that when a country plans subsidies to alleviate rapid price increases, they should be very well thought-out and well targeted, because it is obvious that the price increases caused by the Ukrainian war are of a more lasting nature and that it is not feasible for the country to limit them indefinitely to everyone. The problem of general and widely distributed subsidies and tax reductions is that they create more additional demand for the economy and thus boost price growth. We understand in Eesti Pank that in the current circumstances, when talking about a fresh additional budget, the state needs to contribute further to its defence capabilities, as well as additional costs related to the reception of war refugees. However, the Estonian economy does not directly need state support, because we do not have the problem of too weak demand. We have concerns at Eesti Pank that the difference between the state's expenditure and revenue is already around 3% of GDP in Estonia and tends to become quite permanent. In other words, almost 1 in 10 euro spent in the state budget is not covered by revenue and requires continuous borrowing. The state's debt burden is expected to jump to 30% over the next four years at around 20%, and only part of it is related to the costs of the crisis. Three years ago, the loan burden of the Estonian state was expected to be less than 9% of GDP. However, what makes the picture much more difficult is the share of euro support in our revenues. When it comes to fiscal balance, it is often forgotten that a significant part of the income of the Estonian state, about 2 to 3% of GDP, is still coming from the budget of the European Union. Our standard of living is improving and, as we look forward, this support is decreasing. Thus, we can actually cover only 85 cents of every euro spent by the Estonian state with real revenue. This cannot be sustainable for long, and we should be cautious when planning additional, permanent public spending. It is becoming increasingly difficult to argue that it is easy and inexpensive to cover large-scale public investment or expenditure when borrowing as a state. On the one hand, it is now important to consider the additional price pressure that the use of credit can create. On the other hand, it is clear that lending money to the government is no longer very cheap in terms of direct interest expense. If, until recently, there were views that the country's profit-to-cost balance has lived up to its own time and too conservative an approach, I think we can say the opposite: the old-fashioned view has become that the government is able to finance its spending with a loan inexpensive and endless fashion. The main message about Eesti Pank's public finances is therefore that when planning additional expenditure, it must also be clear where these expenditures are financed. Certainly, permanent commitments should not be agreed by seeing credit as a cover or only temporarily increased tax receipts due to a rapid increase in prices. The money is not simply coming from the state budget, but, above all, it is still collected from all of us, from taxpayers. It is therefore responsible to decide on the use of our common money in a balanced and well-thought-out way. Finally, I note an approaching anniversary. In the beginning of the month, 30 years have passed since the monetary reform, with which we laid the cornerstone of Estonia's economic success and European integration. We are living in the midst of difficult times, and I want us to have the courage and wisdom to make decisions in Estonia, both today and in the future, that will lead to the survival of our country and people and create new opportunities for them. Thank you for listening. I'm ready to answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U7	Jüri Jaanson will start with them. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U8	Thank you very much. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you for your review. I am pleased to hear that the confidence of Estonian consumers has persisted so far. And in my opinion, it is also appropriate to warn that the government should not give further momentum to the increase in prices at its own expense. But now, here in the Riigikogu, we have started to spread the tendency that we are taking on large-scale fixed costs to the state without imposing coverage on them. I would like the view of Eesti Pank, to which it could lead in monetary policy and whether it could have any adverse effects on financial stability in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U9	Thank you for your question. As I have made clear in my speech, it does not seem reasonable from the point of view of Eesti Pank that commitments are made to the state without making it clear how these commitments will be covered in the future. As Eesti Pank, we do not have a position on what kind of subsidies people need to pay or how much taxes could be. However, at least in terms of the overall picture of public finances, we believe that it is important that, in the perspective, we see how the revenue and expenditure of the state will nevertheless return to balance. Looking at the numbers, it really seems to us that it's getting harder and harder to look at the future. What's the result? Firstly, in the short term, when the State spends more than tax revenues, it creates additional price pressure. The price increase in Estonia is already very fast. The second problem relates to the long-term financial sustainability of the Estonian state. We have a relatively low debt burden compared to other European countries, but, for example, we already have a budget deficit, which is the same as the European Commission's latest forecast, which is higher than the euro area countries on average. At the moment, it seems that this prospect is not going to get any better. Looking ahead, we may need to borrow more and more to cover public expenditure, which means that our loan burden is increasing. Service of this loan will certainly be an important article in terms of interest expenses in the budget as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U10	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U11	Thank you. And thank you for a very interesting presentation. I come back to the point of housing loans and interest increases. Doesn't it seem to you that Eesti Pank should be a little more concerned about this matter than maybe this report was? Indeed, when granting loans, the banks have taken into account that interest costs may rise, and they have thought about it. But [now] this is happening in a context where all other costs are rising very rapidly, with car fuel, room space, food products, public services, private services, and goods rising, while the economy cools down. Do you not think that the share of families or households who have taken out loans and whose interest costs are rising significantly next year may actually lead to quite a few of these families going into quite a difficult economic situation next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U12	Certainly in a situation where other expenditures on families are also increasing and now home loan repayments are increasing, people are, of course, in a relatively difficult situation. They will also have less money for other expenses due to rising home loan taxes. But there's no better choice in the central bank's view. It is very clear to us that our aim, by law, is above all to preserve the value of the euro as our money. We can do this in such a way that, if the price increase is very rapid, we will see that monetary policy does not boost price increases and economic activity. This means, however, that interest rates have to rise and this is reflected in the larger loan payments for the people who have taken the loan. That is why we have been telling the banks for years that when a home loan is issued, the ability of people to repay the loan must be tested at much higher interest rates. We have even said that if the home loan rate were 6%, you should be able to repay the loan. Today we are a long way from 6%. Perhaps people are used to the fact that euribor is zero, as it has been for many years, and it seems completely natural. But it's not really natural. We've been, I'd say, in a pretty unnatural situation for a long time, and now we're gradually approaching such a more traditional interest rate. As regards people's ability to cope, I think it is important that, if there are groups of society that are going to get into difficulties, they are definitely there, then we should think well about how we can support them as purposelessly as possible as a country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The European Central Bank has not yet begun its main measures , but the interest rates on national bonds have already started to rise. In Germany, [interest] has risen to 1%, and for a long time no such thing has been seen. This time is also coming to an end when the Estonian state was able to borrow at a negative interest rate. [Considering] this practice, as we have, that old loans will be repaid with new loans with new and more expensive loans, does Eesti Pank have an estimate or forecast of what the interest rate of Estonian bonds might be expected to be in the near future and how much may the burden of servicing loans to the Estonian state budget be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U15	That's a good question. This depends, first of all, on how fast the Estonian state is taking new loans, as the interest rate on old loans is probably fixed, and to what extent it will take them and how quickly interest rates will rise. If the German Government's long-term interest rate is, I think, about ten years of debt at 1%, then we should consider that lending is definitely more expensive for the Estonian state. If I am not mistaken, there are expectations on the financial markets today that if the Estonian state took a long-term loan, the interest rate would perhaps be close to 2%. The latest borrowings by the Estonian state have been by issuing very short-term bonds, which means that the interest rate is lower at the moment, but in fact, this loan will have to be refinanced soon and then, certainly, with a higher interest rate. If I remember correctly now, given the expected developments in the loan burden, the Ministry of Finance has calculated that in about four to five years, every 1% increase in interest rates would represent an additional interest cost to the Estonian state of about 100 million euros per year. That, of course, should be checked by the Ministry of Finance. It's just a number I remember right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U16	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U17	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for this presentation. In my opinion, today in Estonia, the issue is number one high inflation rate; we have the highest inflation rate in the European Union. I just read the news that Germany has the highest inflation rate of 50 years, which is 7.9%. Whatever side we look at, we have inflation twice as high as in the euro area, in the euro area, in the middle. I ask what we are doing wrong, that our inflation is so high. We're in the same money zone, same economic zone. What are the first three steps to reduce inflation? This leads our people to increasing poverty. [I mean] both the money on the bank accounts and the money in the wallet. What are the three fastest steps to reduce inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U18	Thank you. That's a good question. I agree that the rapid rise in prices in the Estonian economy is the biggest concern. I talked about what we can do by the central bank, it concerns monetary policy and decisions in the European Central Bank and the whole euro area. But if you ask why in Estonia price increases are much faster than in the euro area on average, there are several factors. First of all, energy prices, which have sharply increased for everyone, make up a relatively larger part of the Estonian people's basket. Even if prices were to rise just as much for different energy sources for consumers, this would be a relatively higher inflation figure in Estonia than in Germany, for example, where the importance of their spending in the budget of a single family is relatively lower. On the other hand, changes in global energy prices have reached the people of Estonia much faster. The same applies to electricity prices, for example. In general, it is common practice in other countries, especially in larger countries and in other European countries, to enter into contracts with consumers at a relatively fixed price. In our case, a very important part of people are using so-called 'exchange-price' electricity packages, where rapid price increases are very direct and immediately reaching monthly electricity bills. It's given me an extra kick. The third factor is that, as I mentioned, the Estonian economy has, on average, recovered very quickly from the pandemic crisis compared to other European countries [the economy]. We also had very good domestic demand, and the economic situation at the end of last year was very good. All this led to additional price pressure, for example, on different services. The rise in wages was subject to additional pressure, which was not the same in other European countries. These are all things that have made the price increase in Estonia relatively faster. But what do we do? I think that the country, in addition to what we do as a central bank, must agree that, for many people, such rapid price increases are a huge problem. This is an even bigger problem for people whose income is relatively lower and for whom energy costs account for a larger share of the family's average budget. Given that the possibilities of the state are not [unlimited], otherwise with very general support there is a risk that the state will further increase the price increase, I think it is important to try to find ways to support precisely those people who are most affected in the current situation, so that they can cope economically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U19	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In some way, the current government has been criticised for striving for a balance in the state budget. I have already heard from your report that, in fact, we should take this course to try to achieve a balance. But I would also like your opinion on [the following]. It has been said that it is rather worth borrowing and spending now, and those countries that do so invest and act wisely. What's your opinion? And then I want to know that do you think that young people who are looking for their own home have the right time to buy a home or should they rather wait and live with their parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U21	Thank you for the good questions. First of all, when it comes to making important investments by the state with credit money or, more generally, covering expenditure, it must be said, looking at the statistics of recent years, that we have not behaved more modestly than the governments of other countries. Even according to the European Commission's new forecast this year, Estonia's public budget deficit is larger than on average in Europe. But really, in Eesti Pank, I myself sincerely believe in this, we have been of the opinion that if there is a recession in the economy, the state should not amplify it by cutting its own spending sharply, but then it is the right time to borrow and the state budget may also be in deficit in the short term, but this [money] should boost the economy and ensure more stable economic growth in the longer term. In this situation, for example, we were in 2020. Today, the situation is different and, as a result, it would really be better to retarget the achievement of a country's revenue-cost balance. I also think that this logic, which was valid for a few earlier years, when it could be said that it is very cheap and easy for governments to borrow money from the financial markets and, apparently, without any additional budgetary cost, to finance various investments or even more permanent expenditure, is really changing. Firstly, it is much clearer than in the past that excessive spending and investment can lead to faster price increases, which today would certainly be a problem. Secondly, the concern about the rising interest rates which Mr Sõerd referred to is that, in fact, from the point of view of the interest costs of the budget, borrowing is no longer as cheap as it seemed some time ago. In conclusion, I would be careful to follow that logic. But when it comes to buying home for young people, the truth is that real estate has grown rapidly lately. Much of this, I think, has really been relatively small in supply, with fewer new developments. Even now, in a situation where construction prices have risen sharply and there are problems with the availability of certain materials, it is difficult for developers to start new projects and therefore it is not obvious that the new offer will grow very quickly. On the other hand, when interest rates for home borrowers rise, it can also affect demand and be less prone to borrowing and buying a new home. This new point of balance, I think, the real estate market will be waiting in the near future. But if you ask from the perspective of a young family, I think that in general whenever it is necessary to buy a new home based on family considerations and there are economic opportunities for it, it is the right time. However, my recommendation is to be reasonably conservative and, for example, to assess the ability to pay loan payments in relation to the budget of your family, to keep in mind the possibility that interest rates may rise and monthly payments may increase in the near future. Such a healthy, conservative and cautious view is always reasonable when taking a loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U22	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U23	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! There have certainly been times when monetary markets have been such a major economic stimulus. Today we are actually talking a lot about what is happening in the money markets as a consequence. At the beginning of your presentation, you made the subject of supply chains very clear. True, markets, as well as security sanctions, are an important key element in this supply chain. The real question in the context of NATO enlargement, considering that the Estonian economy alone is too small, we are looking at ourselves together with the Baltic States and the Nordic countries: when we talk about supply chains, we are talking about markets, is not one of our biggest problems, however, the dizziness of our logistical chains - is the functioning of Via Baltica, Rail Baltic or the single European rail network? Shouldn't we try a lot harder here to get better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U24	That's a very good question. Supply chains are clearly hit, at least existing supply chains. It seems likely that companies are looking for ways to bring some of the production closer to their head office and other entities than it has historically been. It is also said that, perhaps in the future, supply chains will focus on so-called friendly countries, which could mean replaying some of the practices we have had. From Estonia's point of view, it can certainly offer new opportunities. I agree that it is important for us, above all within Europe, to be as closely connected as possible to other countries in order to be able to move goods quickly and effectively. It is difficult for me to assess whether it would be possible to do more with the projects you referred to [and on which] I know they are working. I can only agree that this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U25	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you for your presentation. I would like to ask about European money printing or the additional issue of euros. What do you think this will have to do with inflation in the European context? Of course, Estonia's inflation is still something else, and it deserves to be autopsied in its own right. But Europe has been carefully printing money in recent years, trying to boost the economy. Well, there's gotta be somewhere where it's finally gonna look. And how would you look at the growth ratios of the country's debt burden? Do they have any correlations? Please open up this subject a little bit more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U27	Speaking of the printing of money, it really is such a common term, I will explain very briefly how I see it working, or what effect it might have. By printing money, we generally do not understand the central bank's printing of new physical money, but that the central bank buys large amounts of bonds, government bonds, and corporate bonds. Technically, this means that as a central bank, we buy securities from commercial banks that are our trading partners in this business. As a result, the central bank receives money into the securities and commercial bank account. Now the question is whether commercial banks are actually channelling it into the [money] economy and lending it to businesses and people. This has happened to some extent, but in fact to a relatively limited extent. In recent years, when the central bank has been relatively active in bond purchase programmes, much of this money has returned to the central bank as a deposit, and the growth of the loan in the euro area as a whole has certainly been greater than it would otherwise have been, otherwise we would not have done at all. But, in fact, it cannot be said that it would have been tempestuously fast and caused worryingly rapid price increases. All in all, I see that there has certainly been some impact, but the reasons that today are the main causes of the price increase both in the euro area and in Estonia are, in fact, different. I have already said that they concern commodity prices, supply chains, the rapid recovery of the economy from the pandemic. However, it is certainly appropriate, now that the price increase is so rapid, to put an end to this promotion by the central bank. We have already completed the large-scale bond purchase programme, which was launched in spring 2020. It is expected that, within the next few months, the purchase of bonds that have already taken place will also end, i.e. we will get back to the situation where we will not buy new additional bonds as a central bank, and pretty soon it will be expected to be followed by an increase in interest rates. The markets have already foreseen this. Interest rates, such as Euribor rates, have already started to rise in view of all of this, simply predicting the activities of the central bank. As far as the country's credit burden is concerned, there is certainly a link in that monetary policy has helped governments to keep the price of the loan and the interest rate very low. This [opportunity] has been used by governments, and the Estonian state has also used it and has received loans very favorably. Public and government indebtedness has increased further, which means that once again there is reason to look closely at the financial capacity of very high debt governments to cope with their debt servicing. The positive side is probably that, even if interest rates are rising, governments do not need to start paying a higher interest rate immediately, but only when new loans are taken and parents are refinanced. However, there is an understanding that economies are also gradually recovering in countries with higher levels of debt. This will make it easier to service loans, while relatively rapid price increases will also make it a little easier to service previous loans. So in that sense, I would be constructively positive about this prospect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U28	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, A few months ago, there was such a sentence in the media or the public that you should stop printing the money immediately. True, that sentence ran across the Atlantic, and a few months later, the Federal Reserve did make some decisions there. My question is this: what did the International Monetary Fund suggest to you in relation to the same subject and whether, for example, what is happening in the United States or elsewhere in America could be transferred to Europe? In a sense, I will add to my colleague's question, but you have dealt with it from a European point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U30	Thank you for a good question. Indeed, I did not have time to talk about the experience of other countries and the behaviour of central banks. First of all, with regard to the United States, the behaviour of its central bank and the rise in prices, there is also a very rapid rise in prices in America, in fact it has been a little faster than in the euro area. According to recent data, if I remember correctly, the annual increase in consumer prices there was about 8.5%, and in Europe it was about 7.5% in April and March. The difference is that the growth in energy prices in Europe has been much steeper and the impact has been greater. In the United States, however, it is very strong economic activity that has caused the price increase even more clearly, and the internal price pressure of the economy is very strong, even if the increase in food and energy prices is excluded. It has therefore been even clearer that the central bank needs to react quickly and change its current economic stimulus policy. As a result, the Federal Reserve of the United States has reacted more quickly than the European Central Bank, for example, they have already started to raise interest rates. I think that we are really only a few steps behind American colleagues in the euro area, in fact, the trend has been quite similar overall. Speaking of America, I think this is one good example over the last year or two, when government spending, including through loan money [made], was really very massive, and that is what led to very rapid growth in consumption and very strong price pressure. I think that is one lesson in which we can see that it is actually dangerous for the government to spend too much credit, and this can be reflected in a much faster price increase. I think it's a lesson for us too. As far as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is concerned, when they recently went on a mission in Estonia, they were very interested in how we see the development of the euro area. They did not directly give us recommendations on interest policy, as this is done jointly in the euro area; it is not just Estonia's decision. However, the International Monetary Fund's recommendation was also that when proposing aid measures to mitigate the impact of rapid price increases, really try to target them as best as possible, precisely so that there is no further pressure on price increases in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U31	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, You have already referred to what I would like to ask in your current answers. Yesterday, we had a very long discussion in the Riigikogu about raising family benefits, and the presentation and answers to the questions sounded through the fact that the additional permanent commitment in the state budget of about 300 million euros is an investment that could also be borrowed to cover. I know you're not a politician, but I would ask you, as a financial expert, to comment on this reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U33	First of all, it really is not up to the central bank to comment on which grants and to whom exactly and how much should be paid. As I pointed out, we will, above all, be monitoring that the revenue and expenditure of the state is logically balanced and that it affects the price increase and is in line with the current state and outlook of the economy. However, I do think that this is an example of a situation where what I would like to recommend is not being followed, which is that when planning very important additional expenditure, it should also be clear where these expenditures are financed. When it comes to the possibility that grants could be treated as an investment and, therefore, they could also be covered by the loan money, I think that this is a bit of a political rhetoric. In fact, teachers' salaries are also an investment in the future of our children, and police salaries are an investment in internal security. However, purely financialally, it is clearly expenditure which, by its very nature, persists all the more than the draft provides for their indexation, which I think is particularly dangerous. With all this in mind, I'm worried. When it comes to current public expenditure and investments, the state actually needs to invest a reasonable amount each year and investments should eventually be covered by revenue. In this respect, I would even be cautious in saying that it is as if all investments could be covered by loan money, because the need for investment will never end in the country and our debt burden will always continue to increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U35	Good manager! Dear waitress, You are not an oil specialist, but I am looking at the price of crude oil and inflation in Europe. They are quite well correlated when the price is low, then inflation is also below, and if high[, vice versa]. I'm not gonna name them here for years. If you come to Estonia and compare [these indicators] at the so-called European level, you can see that these graphs are moving quite closely together. But why is inflation so high in Estonia compared to other European countries, which also receive oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U36	Thank you for your question. First of all, the effects on the energy market are indeed similar in Estonia and other European countries. In reply to one earlier question, I referred to the fact that part of Estonia's larger impact is due to the fact that energy prices make up a relatively larger proportion of the total expenditure of Estonian people and, consequently, of Estonia's statistical consumption basket than in many other European countries. As a result, for example, the rise in the price of oil or other energy sources will have a greater impact on price increases in our statistics. The second part is that the market practice and structure of Estonia is such that all possible price increases, whether on the power exchange or on the oil market, reach our consumers relatively more quickly. For example, in the case of electricity, many people have a stock market package that is unknown in many other countries. This has all led to a relatively higher price increase in Estonia since the end of last year. But I must agree with your first statement that I am not a specialist in the oil market. I can say that the European Central Bank, when inflation forecasts are made, takes into account the expectations of the financial market, which can be seen in different transactions, such as how the price of oil and gas could change in the near future. What these curves tell us today is that, over the next year or two, prices could fall slightly on the world market, but in fact, compared to a year or two ago, we must be prepared to keep energy prices very high in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U37	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U38	Thank you. Well, oil prices just threw up on European decisions, but I agree with you. In general, it's very sensible. On one detail, it's a claim that it's like it's a fashion thing to take a loan or not. The time of cheap interest is exactly what is misleading, which brings down the quality of decisions and the consequences of which are now beginning to come to light. In this sense, it was known that when borrowing was cheap, stupid decisions were made and the Estonian budget deficit was rattled in good times. But I'd like to ask you, what do you think about the dismantling of the pension pillar? What are your current estimates of this and how much has it increased inflation? A large part of [this money] is still sitting on accounts, but a large part was thrown into consumption at the same time. Ardo Hansson warned against this very keenly, perhaps too keenly. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U39	Thank you. I really didn't point that out as a separate factor. This was certainly true at the end of last year, when people were able to take advantage of pension savings and spend them in the short term and use them in consumption, when I pointed out that we also had factors within Estonia that gave the economy an additional boost and, consequently, an additional boost to price increases, it was certainly an important factor. We see that, on a smaller scale, people continue to take the opportunity to withdraw money from the second pillar. This, however, will continue to give additional strength to consumption. It is very difficult to put it in numbers specifically, but it is clear that this is one of the factors that has given us further impetus to our consumption, particularly at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, maybe to some extent also boosted the real estate market, and therefore, to some extent, the price increase is likely to be faster accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U40	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U41	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I will continue on the subject of pension funds. Could you open this side to what will result from the rise of the Euribor for those people who continue to hold their money in the pension fund? What are their prospects for their money over the next year or a half, as a result of the euribor rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U42	That is really a very good question that is not easy to answer. I really don't want to predict the behaviour of financial markets and give people investment recommendations. However, it is clear that the rise in interest rates has already risen, for example, the same referred Euribor interest rates have already risen a great deal, with anticipating the central bank's expected decisions, has created a considerable amount of turbulence. As a result, stock prices have fallen. The relatively sharp rise in interest rates also affects bond prices. Maybe if the interest on the bonds goes up, their price will fall. The last few months have not been easy for investors. While saving for retirement, of course, it is important not to worry so much about this one-year perspective. I'd rather take a long-term view of what I've done even when I think about my pension funds. The fact that interest on the bond is now higher means that it will be possible to earn more returns as an investor in the future. You can also buy more shares in a particular company with the same money, so the future outlook may be better. In conclusion, in the case of retirement savings and investment, I would not be so worried about such short-term fluctuations in the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U43	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you very much for a very constructive overview and for precise and meaningful answers! You have not touched the effects of war in the context of inflation. As a child, we have all played with their useless or macular tsar money[, which disappeared from circulation] after the revolution when one country and economy collapsed, and we also know how huge inflation developed in Germany after World War II, so the match cup cost a million marks. The balance between the supply of money and the supply of goods in the market has moved, I think, also due to the war in Ukraine, because one economy and one country and large steel producers and cereal stocks have been bombarded. In this context, however, are we able to suppress inflation with monetary policy, or do we have to accept that inflation will increase for as long as the war continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U45	That's a very good question. First of all, the impact of war on prices and price increases really does occur in practically all the categories I have talked about. Firstly, energy prices, as Russia is primarily an important supplier of energy and supplies from there have generally decreased due to sanctions, but also due to voluntary policy choices. Energy prices have increased. Food prices, as I mentioned, have increased sharply for certain raw materials, as both Russia and Ukraine are important farmers. The prices of various raw materials have also increased since the war destruction of metal steel factories. Different supply chains have been hit, need to be restructured, which also creates additional price pressure. It all affects prices, and these are all things that, as a central bank, are very difficult to influence or mitigate by raising interest rates. What we are seeing, however, is that in a situation where, due to the war, and also due to the recovery of the euro-area economy from the pandemic crisis, price increases are becoming increasingly broad-based, commodity prices are approaching the prices of more and more goods and services. However, it is also appropriate for the central bank to change its policy in order to combat such a broad-based and naturally more sustainable price increase. Now the question is, how long will the price increase be so fast? Indeed, commodity prices have jumped so high in a short period of time that it is difficult to imagine that it would be possible to move much further from there. Rather, it could be expected that, if the situation improved, certain prices would fall slightly. Purely statistically, when prices have risen so high, this base, one year later to recalculate the change in prices, is already so high that statistically inflation may seem very low, but in fact we need to be prepared to keep the price level high even if the price increase slows rapidly in the coming years. The persistence of high prices remains a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U46	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Thank you for your review. In your review, you talked about housing loans, the risk of interest increases and all how smart and reasonable the borrower or the person who has already taken the loan should be. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there was a debate on raising the income limit and bringing in one new component, i.e. six months a year, to be able to receive the payment of the mortgage payment from the income support scheme, so that it would be paid. Eesti Pank was quite critical of this and highlighted the risks. I assume that as a representative of Eesti Pank, you have probably discussed this issue. By now, of course, this [draft] has been passed as a law, it has become a law, and six months a year a person who has been in difficulty will receive help]. Really, home shouldn't be lost because of this, I think it's right. But would you open up what dangers it actually poses?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U48	Thank you for a good question. The proposal to change the basis for the payment of income support really had to be a little unexpected for us. We also sent our opinion on this to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The concern we saw was that when you treat loan payments in the same way as other housing or rent payments, we forget that it is essentially different whether a person rents a home and spends it or buys a property that actually represents a repayment of the loan, at least as far as the principal repayment of the loan is concerned. It seemed unreasonable to us to create a situation in which public money allows a person to acquire assets in his own name, and we therefore suggested that since it could lead to distortions in the credit market, to more irresponsible lending of people, this provision could be limited in such a way that only interest payments would be taken into account, for example, but not the repayment of the principal amount of the loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U49	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Electricity is of strategic importance for each country's economy. We buy it on the stock market, and on 10 December last year, the price of one megawatt-hour [on the stock exchange] was EUR 1000. By autumn, our Prime Minister is forecasting very difficult times [again] with regard to electricity. But what if you exit the stock market and switch to so-called national prices, i.e. you only consume your own electricity, which, together with taxes, is EUR 30 to 50 per megawatt-hour? What, in your opinion, would happen in the Estonian economy if such a move were made?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U51	As far as I understand the functioning of the electricity market, I understand that it is not as easy to abandon the framework agreed jointly in Europe, with which we have, among other things, set a course to reduce more polluting sources of electricity over time. According to this, the prices of the CO2 quota will also come, which will increase and increase the cost of producing oil shale electricity in Estonia. The fact that we are in a common electricity market with the Baltic and Nordic countries will, of course, lead to much greater price fluctuations, but I think that in the long term it will also create opportunities. In this region, it is worth all of us contributing to creating new, more environmentally friendly production capacities, so that in a situation where production volumes are currently higher in one country than in the other, price fluctuations are relatively lower than in a situation where we would be completely on our own and should always manage our own production. I think that this [to be on its own] could mean this, if it were possible at all, so that we might have a more stable price, but in the long term it would also be very problematic because of these environmental requirements and, in fact, would mean a more constant price for us, even if it were more stable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U52	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U53	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I will look at the role of reserve management in your report, and it says here that the portfolio of investment assets is 5.2% of gross domestic product. At the same time, gold reserves are symbolic, and there are even ironic remarks about it, ironically it has been said that, for historical reasons, some gold is also being held. The current threat scenarios are very serious in the world economy. Are there plans to raise reserves, including gold reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U54	Thank you. Good question. That is not ironically said at all. As Eesti Pank, we have historically some gold reserves, which are relatively small compared to our entire investment portfolio and the reserves of Eesti Pank. First of all, it is true, as I pointed out earlier, that the investment environment in the financial markets has been difficult in recent months, and it has also been difficult for Eesti Pank to manage our reserves. Looking ahead, we certainly appreciate the possibility of replaying different asset classes according to the situation, which seems the most reasonable. With regard to gold in particular, we have indeed taken the view that, in the long term, we would rather have assets that, on a rolling basis, whether as dividend income in the case of equity funds or as interest income in the case of government bonds, would earn us [income] on an annual basis. In the case of gold, you might really think that it is a good asset class that maybe behaves a little differently and retains its value in situations where other financial investment prices may fall. However, as of today, we have not decided that we should increase the share of gold in our investments. But basically looking forward, it's all on the table, of course. We always try to optimise our activities and ultimately achieve the best result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U55	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U56	Good manager! Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for a meaningful report. But let's talk a little about how many people in this Chamber asked that it's a good thing that the current government is keeping the budget balanced. You told me how it really is. As much credit as under the last government has not been taken [previously] and the increase in the loan burden is also the greatest ever. Plus, the extra budget of 800 million, I hope you've looked inside it, is practically half the air, the total air that is not needed and for which the war situation absolutely does not give [the base]. You also said that family benefits are evil, they should not be imposed, and this 300 million a year is a very bad thing. At the same time, energy costs have increased many times, but you never mentioned that electricity [price] has risen for one reason only: Elering has made wrong decisions. Public authority, literally. The only price is the congestion charge, which we pay twice as much as it is paid in Finland. No other reason, i.e. the connection between Estonia and Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U57	First of all, when I was talking about the country's growing budget deficit, I didn't talk about any specific government. It's been [growing] for years, actually. This is a problem for many years, and it is true that in recent years, even looking at the planned deficit of this year, the picture is not much better. Therefore, it is my recommendation, just looking ahead, to think about still finding ways to bring back the balance between revenue and expenditure for all the reasons I have talked about. This is also the case with the electricity market. I think there are several reasons why we had very high electricity prices at the end of last year and are actually high in historical comparison to date. But how to deal with it and how to support people is certainly the place of discussion for the Riigikogu. I think that the people most in need of support should certainly be helped to cover their electricity and other energy costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U58	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U59	Thank you, good manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Thank you, too, for your report. I ask that, in my opinion, these last few years have proved very clearly that people do not want to live with support in any way, but wish to cope on their own. Although Eesti Pank's data show that many people live from pay to pay day, savings are low, energy [cost] compensation support or compensation was unexpectedly applied for in small amounts. At the same time, the second pillar still leaves the second pillar, not starting to invest itself or creating a pension investment account, but is also used to cover people's very important running costs or bills. If these options are exhausted, then the logical move is to manage on its own and believe that life will be better in the future, to take on a small loan or perhaps to use financial products, the conditions of which are not the most reasonable. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you see the growth of private loans outside housing loans, and do you also have expectations of this hall that we could regulate in order to protect people in the long term? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U60	Thank you. These were all correct observations. The question at the end concerns consumer loans and whether and how they should be regulated. In general, if I remember correctly, consumer loans have not increased so much in terms of the loan balance over the last year. Even the growth of housing loans has, I think, been faster. People have actually, at least in a small part, also used the amounts withdrawn from the second pillar to write off debt liabilities at higher interest rates, to repay loans. We will see if this has also created opportunities for new, additional loans. This can be shown in the near future, especially if some people find it really difficult to cope with more expensive prices. As regards the regulation of the consumer credit market, it seems to me that quite a lot has been done here in recent years. We already have an interest rate ceiling set many years ago, some years ago all smaller lenders [plus] went to the banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. We have much better understanding of this activity at all, and regulation is stronger than it was before, which is why, frankly, I can't really recommend whether I should do anything else. I agree that, of course, it is worth paying attention, to see that there are no further problems. If so, think about how more needs to be responded. Today, however, we see that people have also continued to grow deposits. At the same time, really polls show that most people say that in order to cope with daily spending, they have had to use their previous savings. Apparently, these are different social groups and not all the bank account balance has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U61	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I've always thought that there should be analysis before decisions are made. Maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, but in order to produce predictions, we need basic material. One such source is the forecasts of Eesti Pank. My question is this: have you analysed the accuracy of Eesti Pank's forecasts? Are there any patterns here? Is that 90% or 98%? 100% certainly not, no forecast is 100% [exact]. And are these forecasts more optimistic than [as compared to] reality, or rather more conservative?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U63	That is really a very difficult question. I cannot say with such a numerical answer that with what percentage we are hitting different economic indicators. We ourselves consider it important to be able to understand the general trends so that our story is consistent and consistent with what is actually going to happen. Whether we can predict individual specific economic indicators very accurately, I think that we do not even have such an illusion and it would be naive to believe in any forecaster. This has, of course, been particularly difficult to do in recent years, in recent years, when we were first hit by the pandemic crisis, then the impact of Russia's aggression on commodity prices and on the economy more generally. This has come unexpectedly and, of course, we could not predict it in any way. So I think that, in recent years, forecasting has not become more accurate. However, I can say that we recently had a discussion at Eesti Pank about whether we could measure the accuracy and effectiveness of the forecast better. I can promise that if we succeed, I'll report the next few times.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U64	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank, there are no more questions for you members of the Riigikogu. Thank you for this presentation. We are going to the negotiations and only the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. I do not see Mr Near, so therefore on behalf of Mr Sõerd on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Governor of Eesti Pank very much for this overview. The bank's expertise is particularly necessary at a time when public finances are the focus of attention. But this year's Eesti Pank report, as well as the accompanying overview, is special or different in that the European Central Bank [of which Eesti Pank participates] is changing monetary policy. The age of fortune purchases, the age of negative interest, the age of cheap money is coming to an end. Today's information that inflation in Germany has risen to almost 8% in May, shows that inflation in the euro area is catching up with inflation in the United States. At the same time, the Federal Reserve has already started to raise interest, and the European Central Bank will face it in the third quarter after the extraordinary asset purchase programmes have ended, and will start to decrease. Of course, it must be said that the European Central Bank is actually facing a very difficult task in its monetary policy decisions. On the one hand, you can always say that it is late and that inflation has already gone away and that monetary policy decisions will work with a certain reference, as the Governor of Eesti Pank said. But, on the other hand, there is always the risk that too sudden a change in monetary policy could lead to a recession. So this room for manoeuvre and the task that the European Central Bank has to deal with are relatively complex. A few words about the part concerning the Estonian economy. The role of Eesti Pank is to advise the Estonian Government and, of course, this expertise is very valuable. And if there was a question round about why Estonia's inflation is higher than the average in the euro area, then we must look back to the past. It is forgotten that, if a budget can go down in times of crisis, in good times, stocks must be collected, budget buffers must be formed. But it was forgotten in the years before the crisis, in the years before the pandemic year, when the economy had good times. Then it was simply overexploited, placed in a budget deficit, and these consequences need to be resolved now. A very good example was given here that we have reached 85 cents of revenue in the budget for one euro expenditure. A large part of the budget expenditure must be covered by loan money, but it is also the source of inflation, the cause of inflation. In fact, inflation is being deepened through budget deficits. This must be borne in mind when we are planning or when we are talking about new spending here. And secondly, of course it's... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U66	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U67	... the time when Estonia received loan money from the bond markets at a negative interest rate is coming to an end. Today we read in the news that Germany's long-term, ten-year bond interest has risen to 1%, which is still completely unprecedented in view of the context of recent years. This means that the interest rate on Estonia's long-term bond may be even higher in the coming years, which means that in the current state of the budget, we will have a completely new item of expenditure in the budget, the borrowing cost, and it will not be small. We saw how in the year of the pandemic that we entered without budgetary buffers, it was necessary to borrow in the year of the crisis. This year is also a year of crisis, and we need to borrow, and this means that we still have to think very seriously about what happens to public finances and what opportunities exist in this situation to generate new fixed costs. But, in summary, I would like to wish strength to Eesti Pank and thank you for its expertise. Eesti Pank plays a very important role in advising the government and these messages could sound even stronger. But thank you to Eesti Pank and wise decisions to advise the government as well as wise decisions to make monetary policy decisions in the European System of Central Banks. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U68	On behalf of the Socialists, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U69	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen and the President of the Bank of Estonia! Thank you also to Mr Sõerdi, a very good speech, and I can join in all these thanks and good wishes. The only thing I would like to offer you a second perspective on is the subject of looking for the culprit who has spent more on us in the past. Well, we're all sinners in the same way here, aren't we? The Governor of Eesti Pank referred to the very right things in his speech, and they are mostly politically painful places. For whom it is a painful place to talk about tax increases, for whom reference is made to the fact that, let us be honest, euro payments are in many ways replacing our fixed costs, [although] they should make it possible to carry out reforms, to invest in infrastructure less and less, given our level of development and to allow us to make such changes as are essential to us. But we tend to put in all the things that the state budget doesn't have enough money for. In addition to this much talked about how much money should be borrowed and how much expenses should be increased or not increased, and at the expense of which source of cover, we actually see that there is also goodwill in helping or making quick decisions... Here is a good example of the change in the rules for the payment of income support requested by Helmen Hunt. No one wishes to significantly relax the conditions for issuing housing loans. But what really happens is that instead of a private individual, the bank can count on the state to pay back mortgage payments for a certain period of six months. This is a very fundamental change and I think it is a step in the wrong direction. It has been rightly pointed out. Unfortunately, this decision remained unchanged. At the moment, very many local authorities are facing this trough, so how do we [we have to act], whether we pay off housing loans taken under any circumstances and in any amount, or whether we set a limit on whether we base the number of square meters per person and how we calculate these square meters for children? So in addition to the practical questions that local governments have, there is the concern that there will be a fundamental change in who can repay our mortgage loan. All of this suggests that Eesti Pank, as well as others, are public sector bodies, third sector organisations or partners, including the parties affected by the decisions, must be taken at the table as a basis for deciding on all information. But, as we know, we also know from the past about the dismantling of this second pillar, that politically everything can be decided, but we need to be aware of the risks and we need to be able to defend our position. Since there were two aspects in this Chamber that I would like to comment on, I will take three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U70	Yes, you can. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U71	I'm kind of exaggerating now, of course, but it also sounded like [sides] that, you know, we're stocking up our gold pile, sitting on top of it and consuming our own electricity, we'll be able to mitigate a lot of risks. I think it would be appropriate to recall here, especially in view of the item on the agenda, that the same was the case with the Estonian kroon, with the monetary reform 30 years ago. We were very lucky, we made a lot of the right decisions. But now, if we were not a member of the euro area, what would that mean for our interest rate level, in fact for some time, also for the future environment? What would be the pressure to devalue? Given the security situation, the rapid rise in prices, the desire to maintain the competitiveness of Estonian companies, we cannot really imagine what discussions we would have in this Chamber, what would be the political risks that would probably be very modest compared to the current draft child support. But I think it is worth recalling that the membership of international organisations, when we talk about the security situation and NATO, or the membership of the euro area, has been a small open country for us and a small open economy in the long term [have brought benefits] both in the past and in the future. All these contrary attempts to try to be quiet in our own right, in the hope that we can make those smartest decisions ourselves, well, that's just not possible. My second comment is on the accuracy of the forecast due to the background. Yeah, it would be great if the projections were accurate. Also professionally it is interesting to look back to that no who then made a more accurate estimate. If there is interest and resources, it can undoubtedly be done. But in the case of forecasting, the precision of the decimal place is not the most important thing. In order to be able to put together a budget or make any other decision, it is important for us to summarise the overall picture, to understand what is happening with the important input prices at world market prices, the burden on the state budget on the expenditure agreed so far, and the budgetary impact and the macro-political impact of the different decisions. We actually need that big picture. Even if we know that we do not have the data or the uncertainty is so great that accuracy cannot be ideal, even if we know that it may be 10% shifted, or even half we can be wrong, then we have a big picture to draw together and that we have a common-based state budget or some other plan, much more important than chasing a decimal place. So I think all forecasters are being harmed when two years later or ten years later they say, "Hey, you're wrong here, and how exactly can you not see things coming?" This is not really the purpose of forecasting. Finally, I also note that Eesti Pank is clearly dealing with macroeconomics, forecasting, analysing and giving advice to the government, monetary policy. But in the past, we really see a pattern that if, as a result of price increases or job losses, daily coping becomes more difficult and people try to find a way to manage themselves, [they then take out a loan]. At the same time, they believe that the future is better, and we will be able to pay back this small loan or short-term loan in the future, either because there will be an increase in wages or because there will be another job. But it ends when we have a whole bunch of people who are over-indebted and the conditions are such that it is very difficult to meet their future obligations with a low salary. The question is that even if this situation is not yet in place, whether we can, it is really simply through public information or through changes to regulations, to mitigate these risks in the future. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If the price increase lasts a few years, then those people who...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U72	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U73	Yeah, I'm almost done. Thank you. ... their responsibilities get into their worries, apparently comes more. And I guess we'll have to discuss it further in this Chamber. But thank you very much and I wish you the strength of Eesti Pank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U74	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U75	Good manager! Mr Madis Müller, President of Eesti Pank! First of all, Madis, I want to thank you for a very meaningful presentation. It will not be possible to talk about everything during this time. I'm sure we'd like to talk about a lot of other things today, and the questions you were asked in this room were wall-to-wall. Many things are not directly related to the day-to-day activities of Eesti Pank, but they are simply topics that make every member of the Riigikogu heartbeat and worry. Riina started here not to talk about who spent more on us in the past. In my opinion, this question has been put up completely in the wrong direction. Which one of us didn't spend much in the past? That is the way to ask a question. We're terribly afraid of spending. A proverb says don't be afraid of high costs, afraid of low incomes, incomes. If we had completed the construction of Tallinn in 2004 from the beginning of the Tartu highway to the end, we would have built it today for the same money [more could not]. You could have built ten kilometers last year, but you couldn't build another ten kilometers this year. And so to speak, thanks to everyone, especially the European Union, this road will reach half at some point. We talk all the time that we want to be Pope's Pope, the country with the lowest loan burden. When the European average is 85%, we were hard-working until recently at 9%. Now we're saddening that we have 20% and could rise to 30%. What happens then? In fact, the problem is that in the right time we have failed to invest, [from one side] investment in infrastructure and, on the other hand, investment in our people and families. We are talking here today about the green turn and how bad oil shale boilers and oil shale energy are. We forget that, in fact, most countries do not have oil shale from which to produce electricity. We have world-class oil shale technology and knowledge and they must be used. More and better use can be made of each time, less CO2 can be emitted, and every new boiler will be much better and more environmentally friendly. But let's also talk about the fact that for the last 10 to 11 years, state officials have done everything they can to prevent green energy from [being]. Today's Postimees news is that Enefit can finally be built into a wind farm. First, between two state companies, Elering and Eesti Energia, they go to court with the local governments and that's how the bike works, instead of just punching a fist on the table and saying that it has to be done. I am sad that no one wants to speak boldly about our energy prices. The fact that cheap Russian electricity reaches Finland, which is sold through Estonia's networks to Latvia, makes Estonian electricity twice as expensive. In the construction of the last LNG terminal, Elering held off until his last breath so that this connecting pipe wouldn't come. [He did this] for a very simple reason: so far Finland had a long-term agreement with Russia that it would buy 35 euros of gas, but we would have more than 100 euros in Estonia. Who gets the difference? The transmission system operators would take overload charges. Of course it's profitable. Why is it not mentioned here today that 180 million network overload charges were taken from the pockets of the Estonian people last year and 170 million gave the Estonian state the money back? We were very happy, the government was friendly and supportive. It was asked here that the Reform Party wants us to have a balanced budget. Let's be honest... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U76	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U77	...there hasn't been a chance under any other government to borrow so much. Let's look at the extra budget, put Ukrainian arms aid on it, we'll get a billion. Let's look inside, 15 million is now back on the side of the Defence Forces, 300 million is for Ukraine. And what's the rest? The rest are ordinary tasks [to be performed]; it is not a service to a military situation. Half a billion euros was spent on extra budget expenditure, but there is no revenue. We should think about it. Then we are saying that it is a bad thing that yesterday there was a debate on the draft children's and family allowances. Let's think about it the other way around. It is like a very good result when EUR 50 is given to each child and pensioner in the autumn. But we would like all children to receive EUR 100 instead of EUR 60 and families to be able to pay off electricity and energy costs, which is bad. If people do not have to worry about their home expenses, they can devote more to their family and work. They create added value and boost the economy through which taxes come again. It doesn't take much to think about, it's a year to two, when economic life has been so revived that this 300 million isn't a minus anymore, it's a plus. It was the same with higher education that they talked about when shit is free of charge higher education. I don't know, but I think that's why a lot of kids who want and want to learn learn learn. The most important thing is that if it was free of charge by the state, the parties got free of charge and they studied for seven years, but those who paid studied for five years. Now everyone's studying for five years. The state saved up for two years. Actually, spending hasn't increased, but now they can't find 20 million. Let's also talk a little bit about how upset they were about the second pillar being volunteered. Right! I'm sorry I always said I wouldn't take that money out. But I should have taken it out in January, and right now I would have had 10% of the money in my pocket if I had invested the money elsewhere, even if I had kept it as a deposit. At least the money would have been the same. Now I can't even look at SEB's bank. And the worst part is, it says that only 50% of the shares in the pension fund can be held, but it's 60%. We still have to look more and more at people and talk here about the proposals: cutting VAT on gas, electricity, the heating economy, lowering excise duty on fuels. This does not make the state a minus, because prices have increased so much, in fact, the income in the state budget is higher anyway. I think the most important thing I would like to hear [hear] is that the next time the Governor of Eesti Pank comes here to talk, it is that, as costs increase, they start to reduce their spending at home, but we have an office growing, about 150,000 people already have them at the expense of taxpayers. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U78	Tits Kikkut has a request for a rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U79	Yeah, thanks! No doubt I need at least eight minutes to comment on this performance...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U80	It won't work!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U81	...but the reference to me was wrong. I did not say in any way that we should discuss who has spent too little in the past. The point of my speech was that we should not be looking for the guilty in the past. We can decide in this hall that ten years ago we should have built the Tartu highway in Tallinn for four lines, but it has little practical value. We could still make reasonable decisions with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U82	Okay. And with these forward-looking decisions, we are going straight ahead, because the debate on this point can be considered closed. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you. We have finished processing this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U83	Our second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Isamaa Group on "Proposal to the Government of the Republic irreversibly stop using Russian gas" (566 OE). Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U84	A respectable representative of the people! On 4 April, the Isamaa Group initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to irreversibly stop using Russian gas." Regrettably, this draft was marinated for two months in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu in the current situation by an incomprehensible turtle policy. However, in view of the content of this proposal, although this proposal has been made on 4 April and in the meantime the events in Estonia have evolved but not on an adequate scale, this proposal to the Government of the Republic has fully maintained its topicality. So what does the Isamaa group propose? Firstly, on the basis of the European Union's political objective of achieving energy independence from Russian energy carriers, the decision to terminate the use of Russian gas in Estonia irreversibly by the end of this year at the latest. What is the current situation? The government has adopted a political declaration that its intention is to abandon Russian gas by the end of the year. However, it is not embodied in a legally binding definition. Indeed, neither the Government of the Republic buys Russian gas as a supplier nor as a participant in the gas trade, but by market operators. If we wish to introduce a clear ban on the use of Russian gas as a military sanction in Estonia's [law]room, then we must enforce it legally. The possibility offered by the initiators of the draft act is to be guided by the principle of national sanction and to impose it on gas entering the territory of Estonia. The factual situation with regard to the Baltic gas connections is, according to government representatives, such that no gas supply is currently taking place. However, this is also due to the fact that indeed the price economy in the case of Russian natural gas is high, it is not reasonable to make extensive supplies, leaving aside all moral, security and other aspects, even for economic reasons [it is not reasonable]. The understanding of the initiators of the draft act is that Estonia should impose a national sanction. Of course, we would prefer a pan-European agreement, but regrettably this has not been achieved for various political reasons with regard to the immediate withdrawal of gas as a war sanction. The government's representatives have counterbalanced the problem of the so-called gas molecule: we have a common internal gas trading system in the form of Finland and the Baltic States, and it is difficult to identify the origin of gas in the pipeline. In this context, the initiators of the draft suggest that the logic of imposing national sanctions is certainly the most justified if it is done on the one hand as a sanction in Estonia, but by negotiating that the Member States of our entire gas trade region should do so jointly. Latvia and Lithuania have declared that they have abandoned the use of Russian gas. Finland has not done so, but Finland has applied the reverse tending. In fact, Russia apparently stopped, as a political pressure, Finland's application to join NATO for gas supplies to Finland. This means that, in reality, the situation at the end of the actual Russian gas trade is such that we can and should be able to impose an irreversible war sanction at the moment. Why is that necessary? This is undoubtedly necessary, firstly, in order to exert political pressure on the Russian Federation, and also in order to help achieve a European sanction through our actions, not just through rhetoric. Secondly, this legally binding definition is undoubtedly necessary to support the investment in the construction of LNG terminal in Estonia. In the current situation, the operation of all the economic activities planned by the government for the construction of the LNG terminal is based on the so-called political declarations of intent, but the initiators of the draft are convinced that they must also be legally furnished. As far as the initiators of the draft act are concerned, the Estonian Government made a proposal in mid-May when joint cooperation between the Estonian and Finnish Minister of Economic Affairs on energy security was concluded, as confirmed by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to stop using Russian gas jointly. The Republic of Finland refused to do so, according to representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. At yesterday's hearing, I asked the Estonian Minister for Economic Affairs again, because the situation had changed in the meantime, as I pointed out, with regard to the interruption of supplies from the Russian Federation, whether it would not be appropriate for Estonia to propose this again to the other Baltic States and Finland and to enforce its national sanction. The Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to draw the attention of the House, took this admittedly and confirmed that this would indeed be an appropriate step in the current situation. Therefore, taking into account the response of the Minister for Economic Affairs yesterday, it would certainly be appropriate to support this draft. The following points include a guiding principle for the government, which the government has already begun to prepare, but it is important for us that the legislator be informed and that the legislator express its clear will. Firstly, we would oblige the government to take a binding decision on the construction of the LNG terminal in Estonia. In the current situation, when we look at these cooperation agreements and the hectic debate that has taken place between potential private developers and national players, we need to be fully clear that we have the full capacity of LNG within the deadline, which will also materialise during the next heating period. There's really no certainty. That is why it is important for the legislator to give the government its binding direction. At the moment, the government is talking about the rhetoric that we are creating an opportunity, we are working, we are operating with opportunities. But we do not need opportunities, but we need realising reality. It's a fundamental difference of attitude. That is why we consider it necessary that within two weeks of the entry into force of this Decision, the government submits an action plan on the construction of LNG terminal in Estonia and on the alternative supply of energy to gas customers. This means a plan of how we are able to transfer current gas intensive consumers, especially industrial consumers, to other energy carriers. For example, there has been talk of biomethane and oil shale oil. In addition, [we would like to hear] about the legal actions planned to end Russian gas use. We have proposed our scheme to do so as a national sanction. But it is certainly also possible to adopt a simple legal novel as a short bill. One factor that has been sidelined and which has not been dealt with by the government is the analysis of the pricing policy for LNG equipment. This circle of topics, this complex, has not been worked out. It is undoubtedly appropriate that we have a clear understanding of what the price is forecast to be. Secondly, in the context of this price shock, when looking at the markets in the context of a potential price shock, I can say that, according to the Director-General of the Competition Authority, the price of gas to consumers for the next heating period is at least 10% higher than the price of gas to consumers during the shock period in which we were located and are still located. The price of LNG does not develop in a void, but develops according to the overall market dynamics. It is therefore appropriate for the government to provide an understanding of the intention to mitigate the government's price shock. That is the content of our draft. This is extremely relevant in expressing our energy security, our attitude to the current military crisis, but also, of course, to guarantee consumer security and affordable gas supply to consumers. Parliament can't be a recon here, in a trailer. Parliament must be a locomotive, it must formulate a political inspiration, and that is what we are doing with this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U85	Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Alexela asked Elering to confirm that if they set up this dock, Elering would guarantee a pipe connection and they could rent the ship. Well, [who knows] when it's gonna be. That's why Elering bounced the ball back and said that Alexela had to guarantee them that this ship was still gonna be there, they weren't gonna do anything before. Here's my question. It's kind of weird throwing a cat at each other, throwing a dead cat or a dead dog over the fence, no matter how we want to quote literature. Don't you see here the danger that at present both Elering and the state will be quietly reversing out of the deadline of 1 November when LNG capability should be created? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you comment on this whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U87	I will comment on this in a brittle way and say that this process also reflects the reservations of the government's representatives about the ability to act without delay for one purpose. This is also reflected in what was acknowledged by the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the Commission's [session]. Indeed, why has a legally binding decision not to abandon Russian gas not been adopted? But because we don't know what's going to happen. This actually means that it does not make sense to do so if Finland continues. First of all, the condition that if Finland continues to trade Russian gas, it does not really make sense for us to abandon Russian gas. It was openly recognised, it has been recorded in the Commission's meeting. This demonstrates the inadequacy or inability to realise a clear will for a decision which the withdrawal of Russian gas as a military sanction would be and which would provide an opportunity, so to speak, to create a different market situation for security of supply. I think it is a will, I have no doubt that the government has this [will] generally a fragile fact and that it must be motivated to do so. The legislator can motivate him through the legal form that we have chosen: the Riigikogu's guideline to the government on how to irreversibly stop using Russian gas, what actions to anticipate and at what level to inform Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U88	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking exactly what I asked for in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Yesterday, I asked other people the exact same question, perhaps for the fifth or sixth time. If you're talking or someone else is talking about Russian gas, what's the definition? Here's a little bit of an explanation. Poland, for example, has solemnly declared that it is completely independent and refuses to consume Russian gas, while it is known that it is buying gas from Germany that has come from Russia through the reverse. Does that mean it's not Russian gas anymore, is it? Since when does a gas coming from some north Jamaica become a German gas, for example, from a non-Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U90	Thank you. I also replied to this in the Commission's [session] that my understanding is that Russian gas is still Russian gas. The purpose of the restriction is not to contribute to enriching the Russian war machine. However, it must be acknowledged that if we look at energy receipts from Russian state-owned enterprises, private companies, [it can be seen that] these receipts [inter alia] in relation to higher prices have increased regrettably compared to the previous reference period. So if these so-called beneficiaries, the beneficiaries, are finally Russian organisations, companies, then of course it is Russian gas. In the case of balancing the system, for which the good questioner was an example, it is true that there is a balancing gas in the system, and I think that there is a principle here to see if there is a point of benefit in this system, whether someone is being paid for and whether the beneficiary of this payment is Russian Gazprombank in the current context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U92	Good manager! Dear waitress, We've discussed this Russian gas or the gas thing together quite a lot, but I'm pretty confused about whether this so-called Russian gas is going to infiltrate here at some point before autumn or not. One member of the board of Eesti Energia mentioned yesterday that apparently troubles will come, there will be no escape, and I have also not had a definite idea. What's your imagination today? Can't we get along without Russian gas this autumn season, wherever it comes from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U93	Thank you. I think that if we have additional certainty and a clear framework, that once we have expressed our will. At the moment, the Republic of Estonia has not expressed its unambiguous legally binding will to give up the use of Russian gas once and for all. This is a legal situation. A political declaration for this intention does indeed exist, but it is neither legally binding on market participants nor on the State. It must certainly be noted here that we have allocated additional funds with an additional budget to obtain an additional gas reserve. Now, in this context, it is important that the targeted offer made to a number of market participants, according to the reference, to nearly 30 market participants has been sent by the inventory centre. And indeed, the question of Mr Stalnukhin is very justified in this context. We also asked the Special Committee on State Budget Control to send the tender terms for this procurement to see how the origin of this gas is defined there. [It is important] that it is not just a political slogan that if we buy gas from a Lithuanian or Latvian broker, we actually just wash that gas. Government representatives have confirmed in the ad hoc budgetary procedure that gas washing will not take place, but we want to be fully clear and [ensure] transparency so that this does not happen. If we fail, that is what the Director of the Competition Authority said yesterday, with the construction of the LNG terminal, the situation is undoubtedly catastrophic. Consequently, the alternative is to create a reserve, of course not with regard to Russian gas. But this reserve will cover [only] part of our consumption needs. The second [solution] is still the realization of LNG terminal in Estonia. And the certainty that we have this LNG terminal without stretching is that we are free from all other conditional subjective circumstances and from the behaviour or non-behaviour of third countries. We must have autonomy in realising our will, of course, by working with other countries. This draft decision of the Riigikogu is also intended to express autonomy. This is certainly also read in the Republic of Finland in Eduskunna.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U94	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U95	Good manager! Honourable waitress! There's been enough of that cheering before the night. Already on 20 April, the Minister of Finance stated that Estonia did not use Russian gas. This turned out to be wrong, because the stock coming from Inčukalns is largely Russian. But now to the technical issue. In fact, the operators of the Northern Port of Paldiski have said that they can immediately pick up the gas vessels, only a few kilometres of pipe must be built, which is certainly technically easier than building some giant quay in the sea. Have you examined this statement, and is it not the case that, if we were to correct the claims of the Northern Port, we would be piped very quickly, perhaps by August, and we would be free from Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U96	Thank you. Indeed, these claims made by the representatives of the government up to the time Russia closed it, I think, on 21 May, on its taps in the Finnish direction that we have abandoned Russian gas were, of course, wrong and misleading. As the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the representatives of private companies confirmed, it is not possible to distinguish the gas molecule and, of course, to us via the Balticconnector in full through Russian gas. The fact that he didn't come through the land line, but came through the underwater pipe, didn't change the state of the art. Now this question, concerning the Inčukalns reserve, is that it is Russian gas. Here I would be realistic and pragmatic that if this [gas] has already been bought, just as we have bought a reserve of fuel from Russia, for example, then what are we going to do with it? After all, Russia is not getting it back with a gift package, and the air would also be ecologically and economically irrational. I think it is reasonable to consume it after it has already been paid for. As long as it doesn't have that kind of sanctioning meaning if it's already in our possession. A serious problem, when we come back to the context, is that large-scale Estonian fuel reserves are currently under the control of Lukoil's subsidiary in Finland. It is certainly important for the Republic of Estonia to put an end to this situation without delay. In a situation where Teboil, a subsidiary of Lukoil, controls the fuel reserves of Estonia in Finland, and the leader of Lukoil himself, I think Mr Alekperov, even withdrew from the leadership position as a sanctioned person, this is certainly an unacceptable and unacceptable situation for us. As far as the North Port is concerned, that is, I think, the question of rational choice. Alexela's representatives have confirmed that all these permits [have been agreed]. And why did this situation even arise? It remains to be regretted that this is a long bearded story that we have not previously developed this capacity in this form as the political will of the country. But the fact is that for this project, all permits are coordinated and construction activities are already in progress, as we were demonstrated yesterday at the Commission meeting with a real-time camera. As far as other alternative projects and their technical capabilities are concerned, I cannot comment on them. However, we must certainly bear in mind the technical feasibility of these projects as soon as possible and, of course, all other security and ownership aspects, as I have mentioned here, for example, our fuel reserve in Finland, which is controlled by Teboil as a Lukoil subsidiary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U97	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U98	Good manager! Good waitress! As we know, yesterday an agreement was concluded concerning the entry into force of the sixth package of sanctions. This means that Hungary and the Czech Republic, and who was there, will remain connected to the pipeline and the rest will go out. How does it feel to you who've known these things for years? How do these things move? Will this pipe still come to Europe and not just to these countries with gas or oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U99	Yeah, oil, it was about oil sales. Let's say yes, I would have, of course, preferred a full-scale sanction without these so-called caveats, as the Americans say. But it is better than nothing compared to the lower share of countries exempted from sanctions on this oil market. Europe has been, or still is, the largest Russian oil customer, globally, if you look at these volumes. It must certainly be ensured that Russian oil does not hit on a new stamp, so that it is not going to be pumped out of pipes in any way within the European Union. This is certainly a matter that needs to be taken into account when imposing sanctions. There must be some sort of technical control mechanism. And another thing that must certainly be borne in mind is that Russian oil was not going to take place, which was rightly referred to in the gas sector by Mikhail Stalnukhin. [It] is very simple. It is not difficult to imagine how, through intermediaries, it is possible to disperse this so-called ownership. That, too, must certainly be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U100	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U101	Good manager! Honourable waitress! Don't you think we should say in the words of the Prime Minister, "Go according to what I say, but not what I do?" I understand there was a lot of cheering and noise about the deal last night. But let's see that two days ago, Irus is standing in a large oil tank with Russki Mir written on it. The oil transportation of Gazprom's subsidiary takes full tours in Estonia. How do you feel, not to mention the construction of the Estonian LNG terminal, when another week and a half ago Elering's manager said that we will not build this connecting pipe by this autumn? How is it really, is it the government that wants to disconnect itself from Russian gas and oil, or are we just talking?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U102	Compared to Poland and Lithuania, we have been, I do not know whether 'tail jogger' is the right word, in any case slower in terms of the dynamics of these decisions. Is the will of the government, say, a political goal to stop using Russian gas? I am not questioning that; the government has also expressed this and fixed its decision as a political will. What we consider to be important is that it is actually also put in place legally, irreversibly, with a clear action plan and a clear commitment that LNG capacity must emerge in Estonia. They form a separate triangle, where the confused situation for market participants may also lead to limited exposure or risk mitigation. This is at the heart of our decision. Today, there are considerable contradictions and confusion between the various parties involved in this matter. This is not a good thing in a situation where we need to take one step in order to achieve our security of supply in an exceptionally changed context and, secondly, to have clarity about pricing policies. It's not being dealt with right now. The Minister of Economic Affairs provided information to the Special Committee on State Budget Control that the Ministry of Economic Affairs also requested the Government to provide for a compensation scheme for energy prices for the next heating period, for which I have not met an expert. Or, on the contrary, all the experts with whom I have spoken have confirmed that the price level is at least as high as it was in the previous heating period. The Government of the Republic actually excluded all these funds from the supplementary budget; it did not consider it appropriate to do so by any measure. I think this is not a sensible angle of approach; we still have to have a longer view than a week. In terms of at least half a year, we must be able to take on our actions and I do not see another option within the legal framework, except to provide for mitigation measures with an additional budget. But at the moment, we have nothing to do with these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U103	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the co-report and ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of what happened in the Committee on Economic Affairs. On Monday, 16 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic irreversibly stop using Russian gas" submitted by the Isamaa Group 566. There were a number of people from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the field and so on. I'm trying to stop at more important things. The most important thing, of course, was what the rapporteur Urmas Reinsalu said here, that we tried to find out, although it was already clear, but in the interest of the protocol [I repeat that] we tried to find out whether the government had expressed its will to stop using Russian gas and, even more broadly, to stop using all Russian energy carriers. It is true that this has been expressed by the government. Such a plan I have the briefings of the meetings of the Cabinet, which I hope was also forwarded to him at Urmas Reinsalu's request, at least on the Commission he asked for such material was already in the government in March and April, actually before the Fatherland could undoubtedly submit the necessary but practically decided draft at that point. Substantial decisions or a substantive attitude as a choice of value had been made. This is an important point, firstly. In fact, this was perhaps the kind of attitude that developed into this draft. The second [point] was what Mikhail Stalnukhin was asking: is Russian gas any more precisely identifiable? The consistency of the colleague is that he also asked it yesterday, as he himself mentioned. Urmas Reinsalu was able to explain how he sees Russian gas. In particular, the idea, I understand, of this draft, is precisely that Russia and its companies should not make any profit from it, and broader bones. There were still many different ideas. Estonia's readiness for alternatives was discussed. Do we have our ship and our pier? This is the same debate that has been held here many times and what the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing, Elering, with the private operators. On Thursday, we also have a draft on this board, which I am defending, which concerns the gas sector. Then we'll talk more about it and more about it. In this regard too, the Ministry of Economic Affairs confirmed that the operation was ongoing, and in the additional budget, the additional funds were intended to ensure that the gas supply would be purchased in a sharp amount, which I would say in memory, from Taavi Aas here, said 150 million, plus funding for Elering in the order of 30 million, in order to make the necessary connections and decisions. So in summary, the value decision as such is made. Estonia's [supports] position as a loan to the missing US presidential candidate [words] to the gas station that is pretending to be in the country [must] be deprived of its income. This value decision has fallen. So much for this draft, because in the case of the draft decision, we do not have to take a position as the Commission. It is important to know that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary to adopt this draft as a decision, as the proposals require the initiation of a draft law. We have also had an analysis of this. I'll see who it came from. Came from the Legal and Analytical Department. Procedural decisions are: appoint Kristen Michal as the representative of the lead committee; this was done by consensus; then there is a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda 31. [mail], or today, this too went by consensus, and propose a final vote on the draft; it also succeeded by consensus. That concludes the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U105	Thank you. Now the questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U106	Thank you. Mr. Michal! I would ask for a brief and clear answer to the question whether the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia, has adopted a legally binding decision on the withdrawal of Russian gas, which would be binding on all market participants throughout the territory of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U107	Thank you. That is the debate we held in the Commission. And as stated in the Commission, I can confine myself to the Commission's report, or at least to the starting point, the value decision, which is the most important, has been made. Preparations are also being made for the creation of alternatives. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U108	[[Urmas Reinsalu is speaking from the scene.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U109	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm going a little further from the Urmas question. You said, "I don't know if it was a little squirmy or was kind of state-manly," that would be discussed in some way. Or what was the last sentence you had? What do you mean? Maybe if it gets pretty bad in the fall, maybe close one of your eyes. What was your last sentence when you answered Urmas' question? At the end, let's look at another option.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U110	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, (a) I didn't squirm, and (b) I'm grateful for my countrymanship assessment. Thank you. But I don't really know how to answer your question. If you're suggesting that we're creating alternative capabilities, it's true. The LNG capability is being created, the debates are practically daily in the press. The Minister of Economic Affairs will certainly not sleep peacefully if this capacity is not created. I'm sure it'll all be done in time. With regard to Plan B, even this exists in case the gas supply that we have purchased with a sharp margin in Estonia is about 3 to 3,5 terawatts of water[, will run out]. It is possible to use oil shale oil, which has been mentioned here, and other supplies. The people of Estonia and the Estonian industry will manage. So when you referred to it, [I can say that] this activity is practically weekly and is going on for a long time. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we are discussing this practically over a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U111	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would also like to return to the question of Urmas Reinsalu. Rather, that is the question, or it is because we have to act under the rule of law, the laws that surround us, including possible restrictions and sanctions that may arise. Does the message put forward by the government at the moment that we will not use Russian gas by the end of the year mean, as you have suggested to some extent, that it is a message of value, or is it still binding, which all market participants will have to take into account and will result in possible fines and sanctions if this government's 'value' message is not implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U113	Thank you. In my opinion, market participants are already taking this into account, otherwise market participants would not be planning the construction of different interconnection points and quays today. This, let's say, is definitely the basis for these decisions, and I will go on from here to not just Estonia, but [the whole] our region, the Baltic States and Finland, is actually working together now to create alternative gas or gas connections, especially LNG. And for Estonia, as I said, there is also a [alternative] opportunity if something fails. In that case, too, we can do it, I think, like everyone else. So there are plans. And if you ask for the difference between value decision and sanctions, I would say that the Fatherland is familiar with the principle that the budget must be balanced. I don't remember, I guess it didn't get into the constitution at the time, but as I recall, you're still standing for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U114	Sven, the processing of this draft is governed by § 154 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, which says that there is one question for each of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U115	I can answer later, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U116	I don't see any more questions. We can open negotiations. First Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm here on the remote because I was struck by a recently specified inflation rate of 18.8%. It's horrible. And he who goes shopping, he sees the difference in prices. At the same time, I think that if we were in this Chamber to defend the Estonian economy as strongly as we are in the process of destroying it, inflation would be much lower. And now for the bill I'm talking about. I didn't find any information about it in the Estonian media, so at first I just found some references. Gas comes from Russia to Europe and all transactions concerning the purchase and sale of gas are dealt with by Gazprombank. At the beginning of the year, the bank had 54 customers. Of these, 20 customers are not said by this bank, but that is what Bloomberg, whom I hope you believe, has already signed a contract and will pay in rubles and 14 more will formalise the documents. Bloomberg also points out the words of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, who recently said that most gas importers have already opened their accounts at Gazprombank. We don't have anyone to write, so I'm quoting the American authority issue Politico. This specifically shows which companies have opened their accounts, German VNG, VR Bank and Uniper, Hungarian MVM, French and so on. They're all there. This means that it is countries that realise that even if they wanted to stop buying Russian gas, there is no way to replace it. And if anyone says he refused Russian gas, he's bluffing. Poland, for example, states that it refused. And gladly reports he's buying gas from Germany as a reverse. I hope, colleagues, that you can imagine a map of Europe. At first there is Russia, then there is Ukraine and Belarus, then there is Poland, and only then will Germany come. Does anyone in this hall think that with the same pipe the gas can be driven to the same end and the other side? It's not meant like that. Revers means not that the gas has come to Germany and returned to Poland. This means that Poland takes this gas when it is coming straight from Russia, only pays a little more for the Germans, and it is converted into a reverse gas. That's the point, that's all. Europe has the potential to replace around 45 billion from the 155 billion cubic metres that it receives from Russia last year. It's Norway, it's Algeria, Qatar and so on. But everyone... I'd like more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U118	Three more minutes, please! )
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U119	... attempts to increase this number give nothing. I hope you know that Scholtz has already tried to do this, went to Saudi Arabia or Qatar and tried to agree. The thing is, they don't do it the way you click with your fingers and you're done. It'll take years, years and years. The question now is that if we are a member of an organisation and this is a prerequisite for having a common policy in all directions, and if it is clear that these economically strong countries, Italy, Germany, France, continue to consume Russian gas, why do we have to work against our companies? Why do we take such a goal? There's Finland next to us. Finland has very low gas consumption, about one-and-a-half billion cubic metres, two-thirds of which it became from Russia, and now it refused. Now he gets gas from Estonia via European Connect. Question: Where does Estonia come from? Estonia will be from Latvia. Where can Latvia come from? Latvia gets from Russia. It's self-deception. It's self-deception. You're talking about how it sounds like we have some moral values. Great. From Russia comes gas through four pipes: one from the south through Turkey, through Ukraine, through Belarus and Nord Stream. If you stop accepting in some place, that doesn't mean anyone can refuse it on a daily basis. He just has to buy at a much higher price. And your moral values give Russia more, in the first quarter, Gazprom announced an additional income of 793 billion rubles, or 13 billion dollars. It's because of the circus that started around that gas. If you're gonna do something, make a plan first, figure it out, make sure your population doesn't suffer, it's not your entrepreneurs. We can talk about this separately, but the question now is that you want to reduce the chances of financing the war in Russia, and instead I will say again: the additional income that has been generated in the first quarter is $13 billion. So all these calls are, in my opinion, a pure policy; they do not take into account the interests of our country, nor do our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U120	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U121	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Nice bill and appeal to the Government of the Republic. I stress the word 'irreversibly'. Mr Stalnukhin's presentation was very colourful and characterised this real situation in order to make irreversible and immediate heel turns in today's world. But I'm not going that far, I'm getting a little closer. I'm going to Pakri Peninsula. Urmas and I have discussed this subject very much in the Special Committee on State Budget Control for food and food, in the morning, in the evening and during the day. I think I'm kind of imagining what we're dealing with here. But unlike Urmas, I've been to the Pakri Peninsula quite often, and I know what's going on there. Yeah, right now this pipe, these are the yellow tubes that the Bay of the Gulf of the Gulf of the Gulf of [is seen], the light yellow tubes, almost like the color of Ukraine, go from under the sea to Finland. Yes, there is probably a gas that currently feeds Finland after [from] 21 May Russia no longer sells gas to Finland. Right now, he's out there under the sea, there's no way to see it. The molecule doesn't have the flag of the state where it comes from either. It's like a race right now, and frankly, I don't understand what's really going on. Yes, there is a Balticconnector station along the Gulf of Lahepere with beautiful yellow pipes, and on 11 May, nearly a mile long dam with a width of 10 metres has started to be built bitterly and has already been completed. It was built, according to me, for at least a week without a building permit or approval from the Environmental Board. Although Marti's Voice only yesterday morning or around lunch at the committee meeting said that everything was fine. But I have letters from Environmental Board leaders. It wasn't yet, a week later. But it's a little nuance, which may seem like a picking. But the question is, right now there's a fight to see if a white ship can still make it to Paldiski before the heating season. At first, the deadline was November 1, now it has gone on for a month, but there is no certainty when this real deadline will be. At the same time, there is also a race in Finland. At first it was several years, but at this point the Finns are also building quickly. True, on the same seafloor, from the Paldiski peninsula, this plumbing goes to Finland, and it is likely that Russian gas is now largely flowing towards Finland. Now, strangely enough, I haven't figured out who's gonna pay for all this fun. Only yesterday was there again a serious debate in the Special Committee. Alexela's leader said it's 140 or 150 million, which goes to the state they don't want anything. But at the same time, between Elering, Alexela and Infortar to this day or at least until yesterday, it didn't seem like there was such a very friendly attitude. The Centre Party met with these esteemed gentlemen last week, and Tõnis Mölder reported here that there was no chemistry. I can assure you there was no chemistry yesterday either. And it seems to me that there's a lot of mistrust between the two sides. Why is that? On the one hand, resistance, the emergence of such a capacity, this is the first. Yeah, there's a race going on so that whoever gets to that white ship and so on, no matter what, I'm not saying dead bodies, but whatever it takes. On the other hand, those who build this hauling dock, which once had to be 300 meters, but now it's 30 meters, and to which must come these large tankers, where liquefying on the stormy high seas. The hopes grab hold of their heads, they know the sea, and they say the crash is secure. This means that the pipe that Elering is supposed to build that connects the tanker, we may not be sure that this gas will come from there at all. But that's it. There's no clarity, at least I don't, as of yesterday or as of today, who's gonna pay for all this fun.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U122	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U123	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U124	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U125	Who's gonna pay for this fun? I stress, Alexela says we don't need about 150 million, we'll build it ourselves. But the gas is coming from America. If you look at Europe and America, the price of LNG in America is EUR 20 per megawatt, in Europe 100. Transport across the ocean and all that is about 15 euros. If we put it on, it's 35 euros. The profits are extremely greasy, 35 out of 100. How much is it? But there's no clarity between Elering and Alexela. There is no written record and there is no answer who will pay for all this. As you know, there are no free lunches. But even if reception capacity occurs, the shock in the next heating period and in the next [heating periods] is guaranteed. That is also clear. Yesterday, Margus Vals, member of the board of Eesti Energia, said that we are most likely to have problems with gas in the autumn. A member of the board of Eesti Energia probably knows something a little. That's it. There is, of course, option B and an additional budget of EUR 170 million has been foreseen for us to have this capacity, a gas supply. There's been some talk about it, I'm not gonna talk about it. But option B, the same Northern Port option, is completely real. It's real! A two-and-a-half-mile tube would be needed, a quay over 300 metres long, which is available, which is capable. And there are even preliminary contracts with a gas tanker that could quietly stop there and pump this gas from the pipe without the new port built into the bay of the Gulf of Gulf with very large warning signs on it today. However, I would point out that there is no clarity to this day as to who is paying for this fun. It's now being said that a private company is paying for it, the 140-150 million, but... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U126	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U127	Yeah, that's all I want to say. In any case, such a beautiful bill that irreversibly, but life is not...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U128	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U130	Before we proceed with the negotiations, we need to extend the hearing. The Estonian Reform Party Group has proposed to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. That is why we must vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed that today's plenary session be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U131	Thirty-nine ambassadors are in favour of extension, one against. We've extended the hearing until two o'clock. Don't run away, we're gonna need to vote on the bill, but there's gonna be another call before that. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U132	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Russian gas is toxic. I am not just saying that it is not useful to inhale it, in that sense it is no more toxic than any other natural gas, but it is toxic in political terms. Russia has been using gas as a weapon for decades. By creating dependence on gas consumption, he has repeatedly blackmailed his trading partners. But perhaps even more importantly, Russian gas corrupts Western politicians. We have already heard their names today, the Italian Prime Minister Draghi is an excellent example. A number of Western politicians have even expressed the opinion that what if, in rubles, we pay if Russia demands, because gas is still needed. This political and economic corruption is a direct threat. We must remember that the Russian gas money is directly financing the Russian army and the aggressive war in Ukraine, and this army is also threatening our sovereignty. So, the financing of the Russian army. In this sense, it is not surprising that there is a consensus in the European Union and in Estonia that Russian gas must be abandoned. That is an excellent consensus. I'm afraid he's unspoken. On the one hand, we declare that gas must be abandoned, and on the other, we are looking for ways to buy Russian gas so that it does not have a Russian gas label on it. As a great victory, the German chancellor declared that Nord Stream 2 had stopped. But Nord Stream 1 works perfectly further. Well, what is it? At best, it's hypocrisy. We come back to Estonia. Our Prime Minister, Kaja Kallas, has given many excellent speeches in Europe and here in the Riigikogu, noble, rhetorical ones. Foreign journalism quotes him. His statement that gas is expensive has become especially popular, but freedom is priceless. Yeah, I'd sign it with both hands. There's a really good problem here. Gas or freedom? Now that's the choice place. We declare freedom, but we buy gas. We have heard Mr Michal express that there is a fundamental value-based moral decision that Russian gas must be abandoned. However, this decision does not have any binding legal value. In order for our Prime Minister's words to have any weight, we, as an opposition party, come to his aid and present a draft. I hope that the grateful Reform Party will accept this opportunity and vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U133	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is, in fact, a break-in here from the open or the turnaround, because a fundamental value decision, as has been said, has been made. Otherwise, we would not have been in an already tense financial position from an additional budget, every euro counts, looking for extra money to acquire gas supplies, where there is a principle that Russian gas does not enter it. And in fact, there wouldn't be preparations for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and others to create the capacity to get gas here, which is not Russian. Just so much more needs to be mentioned or reiterated for the sake of protocol, I have already mentioned that in the government and in the various coalition associations, also in this house, there were discussions on how to take the gas and oil revenues from Russia, the oil revenues are even higher, much before this draft decision, which is extremely encouraging to all of us, was tabled. This is a call for action already before this call was made. That's what I'd say at the end. My colleague Lotman says gas or freedom. The wording is correct, but I would say that this decision has been made in this way, that freedom from Russian gas. That decision has been made. There's no doubt about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U135	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to this draft and the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 566. Looks like we're still gonna have to make a hall call, so let's get it started. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic irreversibly stop using Russian gas" submitted by the Pro Patria Group 566. Does it need 51 votes? Yeah, this proposal needs 51 votes. Please take a stand and vote. (Voice of the floor: "Protests! ') Objections. Sorry, I am interrupting the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U136	I don't think it needs 51 votes. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There's no bill here. I just want to fix it for the sake of protocol. I don't see where it's about starting a bill. The government must actually report, the government must make a binding decision as a sanction. And I would like to point out that imposing a national sanction is not a legislative issue for Parliament, but a government sanctioning decision under the International Sanctions Act as a national sanction. So where did the law come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U137	Yeah, yeah, yeah! I even wondered if we hadn't come up this week. As we know, there is indeed a possibility in this procedure that there is no threshold of 51 votes. In that case, indeed, as you pointed out, there must be no hiding in the creation of a bill or in the budgetary impact. We asked both the Commission and the government to take a position, especially the government's position, which is important to us, whether they see such a need for this draft, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs told us that they felt that an amendment to the natural gas law was needed, which is why the Commission's view is that it is 51 votes. The Bureau was satisfied with this justification. Yes, please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U138	I don't understand anything now. Government representatives, as well as representatives of the coalition who have spoken here, made speeches to forgive us; this draft decision is not necessary; Russian gas has already been abandoned. But now it turns out that in order to take a decision to abandon Russian gas, it is necessary to amend the natural gas law. One of these two arguments is melting. President of the sitting, I would like to ask for an assessment. How can it be said at the same time that it is a tautological decision that there is no need for it, that Russian gas has already been abandoned, and, secondly, that in order for the Riigikogu to be able to demand the government to abandon Russian gas, it is necessary to amend the natural gas law. I believe that there is no need to amend the natural gas law. I also stressed in my report that the government wants to put words in my mouth, I have not talked anywhere about amending the natural gas law, I am talking about imposing a sanction under the International Sanctions Act. The government operates in a completely different field of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U139	Yeah, well, the government has told us that the draft wants the Government of the Republic to take decisions to stop using Russian gas and build an LNG terminal and to give the Riigikogu an overview of the activities necessary to prepare for this decision. Although the presentation of an overview to the Riigikogu does not require the initiation of a law, points 1 and 2 of your draft, the proposals that it states that the implementation of this proposal will require the Government of the Republic to initiate a draft amendment to the Natural Gas Act and an additional budget bill. That is the government's assessment, and it makes no sense for us to have this argument here. I can't change that, 51 is 51. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U140	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I do have the feeling that Urmas is absolutely right on this issue, and I believe that this is a case, again and again, where the Reform Party considers that it is necessary to turn things exactly according to their needs, that when it is useful to them, that is to say, it must be in the same direction and, if they are not useful to them, it must be the other way around. Because these same claims made by Urmas are indeed mutually exclusive. Why don't we take a break and discuss this, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U141	We just extended the session, otherwise we could have started discussing it in five minutes or three minutes. This statement has come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is led by the Centre Party, but, yes, I do not think that we are currently having salt blown here or the right of discretion is being exercised in any way. On the subject of this 51 vote, of course, we have debated a great deal here, and obviously this dispute will not end at least until the end of its composition. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U142	Thank you, Mr President. This situation is getting a lot messier than I expected. At the same time, the argument has come about the document at your disposal that a new supplementary budget is needed to give up Russian gas. Representatives of the government, I would like to point out, in the case of the construction of a terminal, we have allocated large sums of money, say, to the creation of a gas reserve. And now it turns out that two conditions have arisen in order to abandon Russian gas, although the government continues to argue that we have already abandoned Russian gas. There is a need to amend the natural gas law and there is a need for some kind of additional budget. I asked the President of the sitting whether this is the reason why the government has not taken a legal decision on the withdrawal of Russian gas. That there is a completely different world behind it, which was not open to us in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Some other additional budget and changes to the Natural Gas Act at the meeting of the Commission, I assure you, were not in favour of any government representatives [talk]. That there's some kind of secret paper that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U143	Mercy, mercy! I am not discussing the substance here, I am simply saying that this is what has been agreed. The Commission, the Government and the Board of the Riigikogu concluded that there is a threshold of 51 votes. This substantive dispute I am not going to hold here is whether or not to make the network tariff mandatory for the system operator or how it works, either the natural gas law or the supplementary budget or some other matter. That's just the way it is. I wasn't at the committee meeting, and I'm not in the government. I am not going to discuss this content here right now. It is simply my hope that we will reach a vote today in the next hour, and the vote is that 51 votes are needed to approve this draft. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U144	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've been following this discussion very closely and listening to this whole topic. Maybe you can explain where the open door Michal was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U145	If there are 51 or more votes in favour of this bill in the Riigikogu, the government will be obliged either to draft the bill or, together with the drafting of the bill, to find budgetary resources. That's the open door, 51 votes is the open door. Sven Sester, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U146	Thank you, Mr President. What kind of covert paper is that you're talking about right now? While I am on the Commission as Vice-Chairman of the Commission, I can say that I do not remember, we can look after the minutes to have a separate paper drawn up in the Commission that we need to start making another supplementary budget and to start amending some other laws. That's not what it said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U147	No, now you've been inconspicuous somewhere. I read no paper other than that of the Committee on Economic Affairs, by Mari Street, and, moreover, Tiina Kuusmann, from the Legal and Analytical Department, has made us paper and it has been shown in the Committee on Economic Affairs, or at least it is available. I don't know if he's [only] available in the SMS, or if they put paper on your desk, I can't answer that. It's not a wrapper, it's not even an AK stamp. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I myself attended the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and, frankly, I did not hear or notice that anyone from the government would have mentioned it in half a word, because we considered it very natural that it was a simple majority issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U149	Why didn't you ask the Commission waitress? I am not the Commission's waitress. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Today, however, there has been some confusion that is taking on ever greater dimensions. I'm gonna read that bill again, and I'm gonna read the explanatory statement. Once again, I stress that there has been no specific task for the government to amend the law. What does it matter now, what the government is trying to impose on Parliament? It's actually kind of turning into an Reverse-Ants shirt. What does that mean now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U151	Thank you. There's no more confusion, it's just fun starting again. We can have this discussion until 2:00 and continue tomorrow at 2:00. The Commission's record shows that this information has been passed on and no one has asked questions or protested. That's right. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U152	Thank you. That is exactly what I wanted to say: I mentioned [the] Commission's [session] and the chair of the committee mentioned 51 votes [claims], but no questions were asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U153	Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U154	I would remind you that there was also a reference that the Board of the Riigikogu has made a decision on this matter. This has not only been a matter of the Commission, but the Riigikogu Board has also shaped the position. And I would now like to address the question [to the President of the sitting]. The chairman of a good sitting appeals to the Commission, but in fact the Riigikogu's board of directors made a decision on this matter before the committee meeting. In my opinion, it is still a substantive issue that needs to be done. Have we, as the representatives of the government claim and Mr Michal argued, taken a decision to abandon Russian gas and we have abandoned [Russian gas]? But now it is said that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has made an expert report that it requires an amendment of the additional budget and the natural gas law. Then there is, I would ask the President of the sitting to describe what decision was taken before the committee meeting by the Board of the Riigikogu, whether we have given up Russian gas and what should be done to give up Russian gas, because that is the point. It is in pure form, the content becomes a form and the form becomes a substance, it is not possible to separate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U155	You will understand that the Board of the Riigikogu is not discussing whether Estonia is giving up Russian gas. We're not gonna do that. The role of the management board of the Riigikogu is the procedure agreed upon by the management board of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu asks the Commission, the Commission asks the government for a position, but the Board of the Riigikogu also asks our own Legal and Analytical Department, and on the basis of these information, the Commission brings its proposal to what threshold this vote will take place. And now I have to admit that I was not present at this session of the Riigikogu's Management Board, which put it on the agenda for us and put it on the voting threshold. So there was probably no controversy about it, but I wasn't there. I can see from the papers that this is how it's been. But we seem to have solved this ever-increasing mess to a large extent. Let us recommence the call for voting in order to carry out the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic irreversibly stop using Russian gas" submitted by the Pro Patria Group 566. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U156	There are 24 ambassadors in favour of the draft, one against, no abstentions. The draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U157	Today's third item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to impose additional sanctions on the Government of the Republic on the Russian Federation in connection with the war of aggression against Ukraine." This is a first reading. Here, too, the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu and the rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U158	Thank you. The representative of the people of the Republic of Estonia has made a statement in this Chamber to condemn the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine by demanding the introduction of a full-scale trade embargo on the Russian Federation by the world public, including the government of its country. The Ukrainian Government has approached the Republic of Estonia and other countries with concern that the transport of goods by road to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland with land connection has increased towards Belarus. At European Union level, there is a sanction on the transport of goods by road, but this sanction is extremely hypocritical. It regulates only vehicles registered in the Russian Federation, which in fact means that all transport by road from third countries from the Russian Federation and the Russian Federation is effectively excluded. Therefore, this sanction is optically designed to disrupt freight transport. Its actual target group is only those road transport companies, companies in the Russian Federation which have vehicles registered in the Russian Federation. On the basis of the above and in view of the scale of the [managed] freight transport to Russia and Russia through us, and in the light of Parliament's earlier decision to impose a total trade embargo, it is proposed that the Republic of Estonia impose a national sanction, which does not require the natural gas law to be amended in an amazing way, but simply a government decision to impose a sanction on commercial road transport towards Russia and call for the same to be done by other countries in our region with a land border with Russia. It is clear that, in the case of this sanction, if we point the finger at any other failure to impose sanctions on other countries of the European Union, on some Western European country, and call for moral backbones [to grow], the main responsibility for this sanction lies with the countries of our region, Estonia because of our position, because Portugal, Luxembourg or Belgium, for example, does not have a land border with the Russian Federation. That is why we have now formed a way of life through Estonia for the business of the Russian Federation, which feeds the Russian war machine. This path of life is morally condemnable and has no justification for this critical situation in the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine. The same applies to the use of our ports for shipping to and from Russia, in addition to land transport. I would like to point out once again that we are not only speaking here, as is the case with the ships on the register of the Russian Federation, which it was on 24 February, as is the case with all the vessels that deliver goods to Russia or Russia. [Our] proposal would be, firstly, that the Republic of Estonia impose them as a national sanction and, secondly, that the Baltic States, above all, cooperate [in the case of this sanction], that the Baltic States be united. And thirdly, we will, of course, continue to seek to impose such a comprehensive trade embargo on [maritime] as a European sanction. In short, this is the context of the draft decision. Regrettably, we have seen that the volume of these freight transports is increasing. The daily newspaper has brought out a billion euros of bisnise from Estonia in the course of Russia as part of a grateful journalistic study, and this is illustrated by the Russian tanks in Irus, which have, for some reason, been written "Russki Mir" as the biggest grotesque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U159	And questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Just a moment ago, we voted on whether Russian natural gas could be sanctioned. Although it is said on the government side that it is sanctioned, it turns out that it is actually not sanctioned and has been left in such an unclear situation. This question is indeed, as you rightly pointed out, the same situation today, and probably many entrepreneurs are trying to exploit it in good faith or not in such good faith in any case, and it is difficult to blame them for it. What do you think you should do to make sure that this bill doesn't go the way it did with natural gas sanctioning, that it's like the government is very hollowly declaring its own promise, which basically means nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U161	However, with the support of the chairman of the hearing, this false operation was revealed in many ways. Where was the cipher again? The President of the sitting had a cipher at his disposal, which he read to Parliament. Although the representatives of the government told us at the [session] of the Commission and also here the rapporteur of the Economic Committee [composed] that the decision to abandon Russian gas had been taken, it came out, and that was probably why the coalition did not find it possible to support this real decision of the Riigikogu on this matter, that it would require a) an additional budget and b) an amendment to the natural gas law. Neither of these conditions is necessary when taken alone. For me, the information contained in this cipher also serves as an excuse not to make the legally binding decision that is needed, firstly, to impose a national sanction, and secondly, to take a clear decision on the construction of the LNG terminal in Estonia. What can we do to prevent this bill from going the way it did with the previous bill? I think we need to understand that we have a particular moral responsibility in applying this type of sanctions, both in terms of security, but also in terms of neighbouring the Russian Federation. It is obvious, for example, if we take the case of a [restrictive country] or a [restrictive] European Union country, which is not a neighbouring country of Russia, of a [crossing] cargo on land by government representatives to state that it is only worth imposing a sanction if it is Europe-wide, it is hypocritical, to put it mildly, that we must establish the [crossing] cargo rule when, figuratively speaking, Belgium and Portugal also come on board with us. They don't have a land border with the Russian Federation. After all, we're talking about breaking the rule of land border cargo. And that is the fundamental difference that we now have the situation that the European Union's sanction is actually for cars, the border is open, the goods are carried with a camel or the goods are carried by a truck registered in Germany or Bulgaria. But our proposal is, as a national sanction and in cooperation with the countries of the region, above all with the Baltic States, to impose a common national sanction precisely for the lifting of landlocks on the Russian Federation and Belarus border. We are seeing many brave protesters who, for example, have tried to block these cargo cars at the Polish-Belarus border, there are their own forms of protest. It is not a beautiful situation that has now developed, and in addition to moral condemnation, so that we are not hypocritical, we must also take legal steps. That is clearly what the draft decision refers to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U162	Again, I would like to point out that one question can be put to each of the rapporteurs when this item is being dealt with. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U163	Good manager! Dear waitress, Yes, the trucks are moving quite intensively right now, and these problems, the queues are very large at the border. We could make some sort of stand-alone [order] for Estonian companies to move faster. However, my question is this: Einar Vallbaum, a former colleague of your party partner, has for years led the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. Have you consulted him on how he feels about this as a professional?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U164	No, it's not. But it is not a question of logistics; it is not a matter of road transport, whether it is a transport route within Estonia or through Estonia. This is a political question about the relationship between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian-Ukrainian war with the perspective that we must take all possible steps to shorten the war. And that is one measure in this context. When the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia adopted a decision.. I believe that we were not hypocritical or hollow, in which we demanded a comprehensive trade embargo on the Russian Federation, including the closure of ports to goods going to Russia or coming from Russia, it was exactly the same as a value decision, a political decision, not a commercial-logistic or transport logistics decision. I certainly do not agree, as the representatives of the government have just said, that no, we cannot do that, that [must] be a pan-European [decision]. When I asked if we had initiated it across Europe, there was silence. It is said that undertakings must decide autonomously. No, the state is for it to report on the decisions and limitations of the political will of society as sanctions, of course, as fixed-term sanctions, which are intended to enable the state to fulfil its task.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U165	No further questions. Thank you, Urmas! Now there is a co-report from the Committee on Economic Affairs. Annely Akkermann, please! So why don't you tell me about the voice threshold, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U166	Good day to you, too. On 4 April, the party Isamaa initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to impose additional sanctions on the Government of the Republic on the Russian Federation in connection with the war of aggression against Ukraine." On 5 April, the Riigikogu took it into procedure and the bill received the number 567. The author has just presented the content of the draft in detail here, which is why I have no reason to repeat it. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 16 May. The committee was convened by Urmas Reinsalu, the author's representative, Deputy Secretary-General of the Maritime Economy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Kaupo Läänerand, Adviser to the Foreign Trade Policy of the Department of Enterprise and Consumption, Koidu Talli, Head of the Roads and Railways Department, Ain Tatter. Urmas Reinsalu presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposing the Government of the Republic to impose further sanctions on the Russian Federation in connection with the war of aggression against Ukraine." Technical issues arose about the complexity of imposing sanctions. At the time, bunkering in anchor areas was at issue, and Deputy Secretary-General Kaupo Läänerand emphasised separately that the sanction of one country or region is not an influential measure, talking about maritime sanctions, and in the case of Estonia's sanctions, trade flows would move to other countries. Regional measures and national measures are not effective and are not felt by Russia. Estonia also has one very unpleasant experience when, alone or as the only country, attempts were made to sanction the Belarusian oil product, but it turned to Latvia instead. Now Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are meeting very closely to discuss different sanctions and to influence other countries of the European Union to accompany them and jointly implement them. Ships under the Russian flag are banned, but ships with Russian owners were not banned at that time because one Member State opposed. Kaupo Westrand also stressed that the most effective sanction is the embargo on goods or goods, which I hope will be valid globally to the extent that it can convince other countries. Mikhail Stalnukhin once again raised the issue of Russia's decision in 2002 to build a port in Ust-Luga and this port has grown over the years and has now become the third largest port in Europe. Russia is building ports in several cities, and all sanctions make Russia stronger, was its summary. As the question of anchor areas was very topical in the Estonian media at the time of the committee meeting, I asked whether tankers could not be bunkered in anchor areas or whether these services were indispensable. I would point out here that bunkering means all forms of ship supply and also ship unloading, such as the reception of waste or bilge water. There are two aspects that should not be dealt with together: are there enough anchorages for ships in Estonia to visit us, also ships that take goods from Estonia, whether it is pulp, paper, wood or cereals, which are exported from Estonia, or are few of these anchorages due to the fact that there should be fewer Russian ships? Kaupo Läänerand thought that the possibility of transferring waste in anchor areas should be preserved, because if Estonia did not create such an option, the ship owner would release the waste into the Baltic Sea. With regard to sanctions, I would also like to point out what Kaupo Läänerand referred to, that an undertaking which goes to offer bunkering services must make sure that the transaction is legal in the view of sanctions and be responsible for its actions. I raised the question that the lack of fuel for a ship is doubtful in this sense that a ship without fuel is unmanageable because all its systems are powered by the energy produced from the fuel on the ship. Dawn Talli commented on the argument regarding the increase in cross-border volumes of goods that a transitional period has been granted in any EU sanction regulation that prohibits certain groups of goods or producers. We do not know whose goods or whose goods are currently crossing the border, because many companies are also known to shut down their activities in Russia and to transport their supplies and equipment. Most products are subject to sanctions at the beginning of the summer, depending on when the restriction is adopted. Indeed, it can be seen that Estonian entrepreneurs have intensified as the money has been paid to producers both in Belarus and Russia and is being sought for the goods. Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Railways Department of MKM, added that the area governed by the EU regulation directly cannot be governed by national law. The draft essentially imposes sanctions on EU carriers and the proposed scope could only be realised through EU sanctions. I think these are the most important substantive aspects that were addressed in this meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Perhaps it is worth pointing out that, if the directly applicable law of the European Union regulates some area, there is no national right to establish rules in the same area with a different approach. We also talked in the Commission about what kind of majority is needed for the adoption of the draft. Piia Schults had consulted the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and according to the opinion received from the government authorities, this draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. In conclusion, the Commission decided firstly to appoint a speaker to represent the lead committee; secondly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 31 May 2022, that is to say today; and thirdly, to propose a final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. The vote included the speaker, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U167	And now the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U168	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, it is such a patriotic and inspiring appeal, but given the reality, it is almost unfulfilled. My question is whether [this is also the subject] was discussed there: Mr Pomerants, the party partner of Urmas Reinsalu, has been lobbying heavily on these bunker areas [the subject] to expand them. Was this also the issue discussed at the meeting of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U169	No, the question of Marko Pomerants was not discussed at the committee meeting. Two questions need to be kept: do we have too few anchorages to serve the Estonian economy in other countries, or are there too few to allow Russian tankers [not] to spend time there if they have no transport, no cargo or no place to go and they are not allowed to go to ports? These are two completely different things. We still need to make sure that, for other reasons [our anchorage areas], the bases of other countries fit into our anchorages and are not unduly small so that ships can pose a threat to each other on certain winds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U170	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This third paragraph of the draft decision states: "The Government of the Republic will continue to request, together with the like-minded countries, to impose a sanction on this matter across the European Union. " We are talking about land transport, which is essentially about five countries: Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. There are simply no other countries. If we want to make a difference, we should be locomotives. After all, our Prime Minister has always reported when [the great] leader Estonia has been. Was there also a debate in the Commission on why we do not want to take the lead on this issue? Why can't we take the lead among these five countries? We have offered this opportunity, I do not know whether Lithuania or Poland, or at all we have looked past it somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U172	The Commission dealt with this. The government has made proposals, and [Estonia] has indeed been one of the leaders of the sanctions imposed on Russia, no one can doubt that. But the Commission has found, and I think that whoever thinks about it in greater depth, it also understands that it is important to sanction the groups of goods and goods themselves, not the means of transport. Then, for example, if some Estonian or European companies have already paid for the timber and we do not let them go after it or let them come to Estonia with the timber they buy, who are we sanctioning? Are we sanctioning the European Union and our companies, releasing them from the goods they have paid for to Russia, or transport companies? After all, transport companies do their job elsewhere, sanctioned get their businesses. The sanctioning of groups of goods is what the government has preferred and what it has invited other countries to do. Late last night, I understand, new agreements were reached concerning the embargo on oil products to two thirds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U173	Thank you. No further questions, we can open negotiations. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U174	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The last vote clearly showed that our value-based policy is not at all value-based, gas is more important than freedom. Unfortunately, we see this not only in the area of gas. We have adopted a declaration here in the Riigikogu calling for a comprehensive embargo. An all-encompassing embargo, yes, but this is a specific embargo we do not want to impose. These objections, which we have heard here, are one more shameful than the other. Let us say that there are technical reasons, there are technical issues that do not allow a specific sanction to be imposed. And even worse, it turned out that Estonia's sanctions against Belarus were erroneous, harmful, because they were based on principles, but not on the interests of companies. The worst part was that these embargoes would strengthen Russia. This is a repeat of Putin's propaganda: yes, put an embargo on us, our economy will grow and grow as a result. But now we hear such a quiet whining from the other side of the border, that please remove these embargoes, please relax these sanctions and so on. That's bullshit! The talk that we are somehow preventing the import of Russian goods and it strengthens Russia is not competent at all. Ladies and gentlemen, We fight little crooks, we fight those fools who walk around with Georgi tapes or some sort of sign or Z. But the Russian world is rolling along Estonian railway tracks. The Russian world comes with those tanks on which all these signs are attached, but we cannot oppose it because there are technical issues and Russia is getting stronger when we close [the border] and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, [I have] the same question as the previous vote: more importantly, is it the small or the high income that logistics companies receive or freedom? This is the issue that we are currently deciding on, and on which we are currently voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U175	Thank you. I don't see any more requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments have been proposed to this draft and the lead committee has proposed a final vote. That is the final vote we are now going to hold. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to impose additional sanctions on the Government of the Republic on the Russian Federation in connection with the war of aggression against Ukraine" (567 OE), which requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U176	There are 28 ambassadors in favour of the draft, one against and no abstentions. 51 votes did not come together and the bill was not adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U177	We can move on to the agenda. Today's fourth item is the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (559 SE). We are at second reading and the rapporteur is Jaak Juske, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has discussed this draft in the meantime at three sessions. We had a longer discussion at the meeting on 9 May, where Ülle Talihärm, librarian of the Ministry of Culture, Gerda Kulli-Kordemets, Director of the Estonian Savings Library, and Mari Puuram, representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, participated as members and officials of the Commission. First of all, Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, announced that no amendments had been tabled on the draft by committees, political groups or members of the Riigikogu. The Commission also sent the draft opinion to stakeholders: the National Library of Estonia, the Council of People's Libraries and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. They all announced that they did not have any proposals to amend the draft. A longer debate followed. First of all, according to Gerda Kulli-Kordemets, the draft raises questions as to why, for many years, the savings library and its structural unit, the blind library, have not discussed options other than merely joining the national library. He asked why this draft law was separated from the draft law amending the People's Library Act, although it would make sense to process them together. According to the savings library, the draft has not been sufficiently prepared, despite the fact that more generally state reform and, more specifically, the merger between the savings library and the national library has been discussed for years. The proposal is to carry out the relevant analyses within a few years and to postpone the merger of the savings library with the national library. Ülle Talihärm replied that consolidation had already started to be considered in the years 2016 to 2017. It looked at the form in which the savings library could continue and not be fragmented between the different institutions offering similar services. The savings library has two very important tasks relating to library services: the [senior] preservation service and the blind library service, both related to the services of the National Library. The third service, or exchange service, is also a natural service for the national library. It has been found that joining the savings library with the National Library makes sense because the National Library can use different solutions to develop business services and cooperation. Due to the fact that the renovation of the National Library has already begun, it is reasonable to plan these services and new tasks immediately. Talihärm stressed that there was no rushing and that when the tasks of the savings library were transferred, the schedule was initially planned. It will also continue to seek solutions for the restructuring of public libraries. He explained that, as regards the proposal of the savings library to replace the word "form" with the word "order" in the draft, the Ministry of Culture's proposal to stick to the word "form," as the formation is a continuous process of taking up and withdrawing publications, but the organisation is the organisation of an existing collection. Aadu Must asked how the creation of the savings library improves the situation of libraries in Estonia and what has improved as a result. As regards the functions of the savings library as the keeper of an exchange library, the fact that the institutions formed on the basis of a consortium or a foundation, together with the local government, the state and libraries, were best assessed. Aadu Must also asked which libraries were still engaged in foreign exchange. Talihärm replied that it was not only the national library but also the university libraries. As Estonian publications can be easily purchased from abroad today, exchange with foreign countries has decreased. The internal exchange of libraries is, however, a very important process and is intended to be combined with the "Move Bookable" service carried out by EAS. When publications of value for money come to the library, it makes sense to combine the loan book with the book of the exchange collection. By combining several services, there will be a new possibility and cost savings. Jaak Valge asked why libraries abroad are not allowed to order from all libraries across Estonia. Winter rigour replied that, for example, foreign countries raise the question of how to settle. Small libraries often lack accounting capacity, and it is also more convenient to use the logistics service of larger institutions. The Bookless Move Project solves the problem of renting and ordering books for all libraries. The term said that the role of the external exchange was undoubtedly important, especially in the view of scientific libraries. In the savings library, little literature used in a foreign language is preserved and is also important. Üllar Saaremäe asked about the misunderstanding that a representative of the ministry was talking about the planned progress, but the representative of the savings library was too hasty. Saaremäe asked why these changes should be made as soon as the renovation of the National Library ended only in 2025. Talihärm explained that the inventory of services is carried out when the services are merged and modified. It is necessary for the transferee to be aware of the problems of the service, how to deal with the service and what kind of resource it needs. If the National Library becomes the owner of the service as early as 2023, when the law becomes applicable, it will be able to plan all necessary activities in its strategies. Aadu Black asked where the physical collections of the savings library would be in the future. Talihärm replied that the library of the blind had been planned since 2025 in the building of the National Library in Tõnismäe, the city centre of Tallinn. The conservation collection and exchange collection of literature in foreign languages is designed for the heritage repository that comes to Harjumaa. This plan has been made since the estate was planned. It added that the savings library's view contains an inheritance repository site that would give the depositary more opportunities. It would be reasonable to move in the same rhythm as the completion of the heritage repository when transferring the tasks of the savings library. A modern robot repository is also planned for the heritage repository. The savings library believes that the same rhythm should be followed by physical moving. Helle-Moonika Helme asked if "The Bookless Move" was a project-based activity and how much the changes planned in the draft cost. It replied that the internal audit showed savings of EUR 52000 per year. Talihärm replied that "The Bookless Move" is a sustainable project that will remain the permanent activities of the Estonian National Library and its partners. Talihärm added that in order to ensure the sustainability of the services provided by the savings library, resources would be needed, or otherwise, and savings of EUR 52000 per year would come from information systems used by both the national library and the savings library. It stated that EUR 70000 would be requested for the IT system solution in 2022 and also for the following years. Margit Sutrop asked if resource savings could run the risk of having to reduce the number of books. Talihärm replied that Tõnismäe, a collection for the preservation of foreign language literature, did not move to the National Library building. It's designed for the estate. Sutrop asked what would happen if the estate was not built. Talihärm replied that the savings library building is managed by Riigi Kinnisvara AS. There are collections of both the museum and the savings library today, in which case the collections will remain there for a longer period. It added that the cost of renovating the current building in the savings library would be EUR 16 million. Viktoria Ladõnskaja-Kubits asked whether, in a hurry to adopt the law, it could be certain that in five years' time, this law would not have to be dealt with again. Winter rigour replied that the activities planned by the bill would certainly be valid for five years and more. The need to open the law may come in connection with public libraries. This is why the Savings Library's view is that the amendment of the law should be reunited with the amendment of the People's Library Act and the intention to develop it. Jaak Juske asked whether something would be better for consumers of the service or whether it would remain the same if the two institutions were to be merged from the new year. Talihärm replied that the service would become more convenient for the end user if e-services were developed in a coherent manner. Mr Black asked how the experience of other countries has been discussed in planning change. Winter failure replied that the activities of other countries were being kept informed. Margit Sutrop asked why this draft could not be dealt with in conjunction with the draft amendment of the People's Library Act. Winter rigour replied that the end-user, taking into account the interests of researchers as well as coordinating the common interests, was certainly at the top of the agenda. Heidy Purga said that when the bill was passed, nothing would get better for blind and partially sighted people, because the National Library was still being renovated. He asked what were the conditions that would improve in the intervening period. Winter failure replied that e-services would be better before the renovation was completed. Helle-Moonika Helme asked whether their pay would increase with increased workload. Winter rigour replied that, at the expense of the resource being released, the planned increase in the burden on workers was compensated. Ms Šmigun-Vähi asked whether people would be made redundant during the changes. Talihärm replied that all employment contracts would be transferred to the National Library. Purga asked if the employees of the National Library are in the state wage system and the local government decides on the wage conditions of the employees of the Estonian Savings Library. It replied that the savings library was also a public institution. In addition, a discussion continued between the members of the committee on whether the draft should be brought to second reading before the summer break of the Riigikogu or whether the procedure should be continued in the autumn. At the end of the meeting, Aadu Black proposed to add the following item to the agenda of the [session] of the Commission of 12 May to prepare for the referral of the draft law to second reading. And indeed, the next time, on 12 May, the Committee on Culture met and two decisions were taken by consensus: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 31 May 2022 and to propose that the second reading be closed. On 16 May, the Committee on Culture met to discuss this issue again. Aadu Black said that there were some controversial issues in the draft, but they were more of a work organisation and their resolution was not directly within the competence of the legislator. The Commission has not proposed any amendments to the draft. Black added that the second reading of the draft was scheduled for 31 May. He proposed that the draft procedural documents be approved. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits said that, according to the Isamaa Group, there are [certain] nuances in the draft, so the law must be reopened in a few years' time. The question arises as to why the activities foreseen in the draft should not be postponed either. Heidy Purga asked whether the services necessary for the Estonian Dark Library could be spread over the building in the Estonian National Library or if they would be grouped in one place. Aadu Black replied that the National Library Council was dealing with these issues. It is important that people with disabilities must have a "one-stop shop" service. The Commission then decided by consensus to approve the draft procedural documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U179	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U180	Good manager! Good waitress! At this first reading, Ivi Eenmaa, the Director General of the National Library, whom I consider to be an authority, described the bill as exactly how it was, as a small bureaucratic pinch carried out with great effort in the form of a very unconventional draft. All that Sutrop asked and Talijärv answered was nice to hear, but were you also discussing there that this is a little bureaucratic pinch that big efforts are being made and that has been presented in a very incomprehensible way? By the way, the problem of the blind will be resolved in his prophecy in about 30 to 50 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U181	Thank you, very good question! As I said, I tried to give the fullest possible overview of the Commission's discussions. This is not the angle that this issue was discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-31_U182	Thank you. No further questions. No amendments to this draft have been received. Uh, yeah, before I have a negotiation. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for this, negotiations are closed. We have already talked about the revision of the amendments, they are not there, and the lead committee has proposed that the second reading of draft 559 be stopped. Since no competing proposals have been received from us, the second reading of this draft has been completed. Now I have a question to the Minister for Health and Labour about whether you can say anything in three minutes or whether I will close the sitting and we will proceed tomorrow at 2:00. Okay, I'm gonna take four minutes of manager's break. Today's trial is over.
