ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the seventh plenary session. Now I would like to ask those ambassadors who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries to the Riigikogu Chair. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is to propose to the Government of the Republic. Since the Government of the Republic has so far failed to do its job, Parliament must come to their aid. In the face of the energy crisis, we can see that government partners are arguing loudly, creating further confusion, and the only thing they can agree on is a measure which is insulting, ineffective, slow and in many other ways questionable for many. Despite the fact that society has repeatedly pointed out that much better solutions are facing, such as the Norwegian measure to compensate for the rise in electricity prices. But since the government hasn't figured it out, we've done the job. Our proposal is that no one has to go to prove and apply for anything, but to all those whose electricity price or its equivalent as gas price has risen more than six cents per kilowatt-hour, that is, without VAT, the price that the country will automatically compensate the energy seller for 80%, without anyone having to apply for anything. This data is available to the state. And as I said, this also applies to gas, because the price of gas has also increased several times. We know that this is not just an increase in prices, but one of the biggest gas producers, our eastern neighbour, has contributed to this, and the country must assume this responsibility. This applies equally to district heating, because also for district heating, gas is often an important component...... and it extends to all up to 3000 kilowatt-hours, similarly to the gas equivalent, and it also includes... (Director: "Time!") ... a proposal for a renewable energy fee to pay for overcharged quota revenues. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your attention and I hope that the government will deal with this quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U3	Mr. Ernits, do you have a procedural question? Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U4	I have a procedural question. Why are you being so sluggish about running a meeting? The noise was very loud, and Mr Saar's story was not much to hear here. Your bell ringing was very gentle and shy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U5	Thank you. Please, Jack White! Just to say that we all have the opportunity to honor each other, it's as simple as that. Mr. White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I have the honour to give Parliament's High Assembly the decision to amend the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act. In the spring, when our previous draft immigration regulation was under discussion, the government announced in its opinion that the draft proposals for changes to learning mobility are reasonable, but the government would like to submit a new draft to regulate both labour and learning mobility itself. And on June 2, our bill was rejected. The government, however, has had difficult times and only a fraction of its promise has been fulfilled at first. In particular, a draft abolishing needs-based learning support for students from third countries is currently underway. This provision is now not in our draft, but other problems have not disappeared, which is why we show empathy and present a bill that raises the wage requirement for labour migration to 1.5 Estonian averages and stipulates that foreign students from third countries are paid tuition fees, and we also regulate the conditions under which a residence permit for foreign students is cancelled if they interrupt their studies or do not complete the curriculum to the required extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U7	Mr. Kruusimäe, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U8	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I really do have a procedure. The remark you made about your colleague Ernitsa was correct, that we should respect the other ambassadors, but I would ask, could we also respect our own voters, for example? Next Monday, the Committee on European Union Affairs will knock on all these decisions and commitments in relation to its Green Box-55 objectives. And the big hall just stays on the sidelines. Because I am sure that the other ambassadors who have not worked through this 300-page material should give their approval, but they will not even be asked for this approval, but with the Commission, because in today's ELAK session we saw what the monstrous plans are really for the European Commission to tax our timber and security The question is why we are not discussing here this week with a very important national issue specifically called 'Fit 55'? [[Manager: The question too!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U9	Thank you. My modest memory says that this Fit for 55, or whatever it is translated into Estonian, was an important national issue in the big hall brought here by the European Union Affairs Committee. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U10	Thank you. I'll pick up where Tarmo Kruusimäe is, and it's finished. We have also now completed the ELAK session. You have just said that, according to your memory, there have been 55 discussions in this Chamber, but there is always new material. And today, there was such a suggestion that the government would support... In principle, this was the case: Member States are deprived of the discretion to differentiate the use of excise duties on fuels with the same useless pressure, for example in the case of motor fuels. And this is now the situation where the European Union is going to prescribe what we can do or what we cannot do. Are we an independent state or are we not? And we are discussing these issues somewhere behind the doll, in some vague committee. These questions, Mr Pevkur, should be brought to this big debate in the Chamber so that the people can hear what rights are being taken away from us again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U11	Thank you. It wasn't a procedural question. But the Committee on European Union Affairs is, of course, free to bring all the drafts they want in this large hall. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U12	Yeah. What Mr Kruusimäe said already several times last week said that indeed, the land is burning underfoot and the compensation of electricity prices, which the Prime Minister will come to tell us tomorrow, is only a small part of it. And the views of the 55th so-called green turn, Estonia's, are crucial, and in this large hall, whether or not once it has been said, we should also discuss it in the near future. And I think that at least the Special Committee on State Budget Control should come to this room at least on Monday. But actually, this week, the big hall should find a way to discuss these things, the crucial things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we are also represented in the political groups in the committees, in the various committees. We do our work on committees and if there is a desire by the committees to bring something into the hall, then it certainly has not remained behind the board of the Riigikogu. These are not procedural questions about the hall right now. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U14	I must give some explanations here, because I understand that we really had a very tense committee on European Union affairs today. There were very complex issues and indeed these issues need to be clarified a little. What Kalle Grünthal said was that there is a proposal to deprive countries of the right to set their own taxes, that is not quite the case. The government's position was critical in this regard, yes, indeed, something like that in the directive. Basically, I wanted to explain it. However, as far as this crucial national issue is concerned, we did not have time today in the Commission to discuss whether or not to do so, because the agenda was tense. We can discuss Friday whether to do this. But once upon a time, it's kind of happened. So I would stress that this "Package 55" is not a high-speed train that must necessarily be followed. Let's take it easy on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U15	Mr. Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U16	I do not agree with the path that Siim Kallas ended on the one hand. Indeed, "Package 55" cannot be treated as a high-speed train. But on the other hand...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a speaking hour. I'll tell you again, we don't have a speech lesson yet. (Urmas Reinsalu intersects: "Yes, but we have come to the problem... ") We are today perfectly able for every member of the Riigikogu to come to a free microphone after the end of the session, talk about "Package 55" and all other possibilities. We're trying to implement the hearing right now. Heili Tõnisson is waiting for the bill to be handed over. If there is such a wish for speech, there is a slightly different format, Mr Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U18	Yes, but I have no wish to speak, I have a question about the organisation of Parliament's procedure. And it needs a certain introductory prelude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U19	How many minutes do you need for this prelude?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U20	It's short. We're both losing time on this unnecessary ping-pong. The question is that, on the other hand, the issue is not that a substitute for the plenary debate in Parliament, we could interpret it as a debate that was going on in the autumn, where we did not really have the positions of the government in the Members of Parliament. I think it is one thing to approve Parliament's position in the Commission, and the other is that the debate in Parliament must also end with the mandate given by Parliament's plenary, which the government can and must not do. This is a fundamental assessment of the importance of this issue. So we should certainly not be hasty in the Committee on European Union Affairs to approve these positions, which have actually been formulated poorly and with insufficient consideration for Estonia's interests. Secondly, it must be brought into the Chamber and done in such a way as to give binding legal guidance, precisely as a mandate for the government in plenary. That is my specific proposal. The Isamaa Group also proposed this on Christmas, I think it was December, and we actually received a non-response. This was a reference to a debate that had taken place in the past, which was a completely different context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U21	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U22	Just to clarify once again that a crucial national issue does not end in decision-making. This is the plan, I understand, to discuss here the new Home and Working Procedures Act, because so far there is... This is going to be another debate that I do not object to at all. So that's one thing. And yet I reject the complaint that we in the Committee on European Union Affairs are not seriously discussing these proposals. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U23	Mr. Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U24	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Now, listening to these answers, I just had the procedural question that if anything has been discussed in the Riigikogu once, how long will this be valid? I would remind you that, in the previous composition, we discussed banning fur farms, in this composition we prohibited. Whether it is, once the subject has been discussed during the membership, it will not come here again. Well, no matter what happens to you by four, come and see us through the rainwater pipe, we're still not discussing it, because we've been discussing it once. I would remind you that we were essentially discussing these 55 objectives, but at the moment, the situation has changed. Am I right to understand that once Parliament has discussed this issue, we must no longer touch on the same subject? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U25	No, you don't get it right. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. The first draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Act on Employment Capacity Support. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the implementation of the exit obligation and refusal of entry law, the law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Schengen acquis provisions in the area of return, a draft. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Equal Treatment Act and the Law on Churches and Congregations. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection. Fourthly, the draft law ratifying the agreement to terminate the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation and protection of investments. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related other laws. And for the sixth time, the health care provider's mandatory liability insurance bill. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. All six draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U27	Thank you! Eight, we have adopted the drafts, and the Bureau will of course decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U28	83 members of the Riigikogu registered. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have one more agenda to pass on to you, and then we can also go to the adoption of the agenda. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement on the state of the electricity market at the session of the Riigikogu tomorrow. Pursuant to § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of tomorrow's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas as the first item on the agenda. With this amendment, I vote on the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu... Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U29	Yes, I have a procedural question concerning draft 487 on Wednesday, which talks about the law on the implementation of the European Union's cohesion and internal security policy funds. And in this draft, only the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, the different numbers and, for example, I would point out that the functions of a Member State's managing authority are absolutely all carried out in the various points and paragraphs of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and so on. The question is that I am 99.99% convinced that no one in this hall is going anywhere to look for these regulations of the European Union, let us say, in the internet. In fact, these same regulations should be in addition to this draft so that we can work productively so that we can understand what these regulations contain, so that we do not get the situation that we are at a fair where we cut the rope with blind eyes, whether happiness falls into our yard or not. I have a proposal to delete this draft, and let the government put forward this draft in such a way that all the annexes to the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council are also set out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U30	I understand your hasty mind, but that is exactly the kind of question that you yourself would like to ask the Minister of Finance on Wednesday when we start discussing this draft. We're not really discussing this right now. You basically wanted to start discussing it, so in the sense that... Do you have one more point to clarify, I understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U31	Yeah. The question is that we have our own rules of procedure, which show how the drafts must be prepared and completed with additional materials. We do not only have to ask this at the hearing, but we need to get the documents that comply with the legal requirements already before the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U32	The Chamber will, of course, have all the materials presented in the draft. Once the draft has given you the materials, you will be able to get them. If they have not been submitted with the draft, you must ask the Minister why they have not been submitted. It's as simple as that. So, I shall vote on the agenda that I have previously read, with the Prime Minister's political statement, the agenda of the second working week of the VII session. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U33	There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, against 5, with 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U34	We're going to the agenda today. The first point is the question submitted by Siim Pohlak, Martin Helme, Riho Breiveli, Kalle Grünthali, Anti Polandmets, Kert Kingo, Urmas Reitelmann, Leo Kunnas, Helle-Moonika Helme, Henn Põlleasa, Alar Laneman, Merry Aarti, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit and Paul Puustustusmaa, which is answered by Erki Savisaar. But now I'm gonna ask for a representative of the remote investigators here at Pohlak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Colleagues! Today's weather is suitable for an interview by an escort. In Estonia, as a result of the winter storm, there are 20,000 households without electricity. In my home village, too, the chimneys were smoking when I drove to Toompea because the electricity was gone for the fourth hour. Coming to the question, this is motivated by information from the Ministry of the Environment in the autumn, which also circulated in the Estonian media and claimed (citating): "Since there is a long heating period in Estonia, many furnaces and fireplaces are also heated here, which in turn has an impact on air quality. " To address this problem, the state will pay support for replacing local heating with district heating or heat pump in the coming year. And it is correct to note that under certain conditions support can also be requested to replace the old furnace with a new one. I also asked the Minister for Public Administration, who said, among other things, that reducing furnace heating has been the subject of this issue in December, but the ban has not yet been decided. The politicians of the Reform Party have also expressed the view in the media that air quality is disastrously poor in parts of Tallinn, for example, due to furnace heating, and heating with wood is not the right solution. In the European Union, crazy ideas usually infect countries gradually and sneakily. To see the future of Estonia, it is worth looking at what is happening elsewhere. Lithuania had the same subject up a few years ago and it was planned to prohibit the use of solid fuels, such as firewood, in areas where there is central heating from 2029 onwards. As society developed a strong confrontation in Lithuania, this idea was abandoned. However, Vilnius has started to impose regional restrictions on solid heating from the beginning of the year. In Sweden, for example, municipalities have the right to impose local restrictions on the use of solid fuels. And so-called environmental activists are also calling for a total ban on oven heating in the Netherlands and Germany, where regional restrictions are also present. When returning to Estonia, it is unlikely that any sane Estonian person would like to give up oven heating, stove or boiler at today's electricity prices in order to receive state support and next month in heat pump heating an electricity bill of 800 or 1000 euros. Looking at the press releases following our inquiry from the Ministry of the Environment and the change in emphasis, where more has been said about supporting the repair of the furnaces, I very much hope that we will receive good news by listening to the Environment Minister's answers to the questions put to him in writing. These relate, among other things, to the origins of the idea of encouraging the abandonment of furnace heating. Is this an idea born in Estonia or the long-term objectives of the European Union, which I suppose may be linked to a green turn? Does Estonia have numerical objectives? How many households could abandon their furnace, fireplace or boiler in 2022 and through this planned support measure? We also want to know how the abandonment of furnace heating affects a person's willingness to cope with various crises and what alternative sources of heating the country wants to use in the first place instead of furnace heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U36	I now ask the Minister of the Environment, Erki Savisaare, for the answers to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good heirs! I will read these questions and try to answer them in turn so that everything is clear about what we are talking about. The first question: is promoting the cessation of furnace heating an initiative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia or are these guidelines of the European Union? Answer. The Ministry of the Environment is currently developing a support measure aimed at improving air quality. We are talking about a support measure that will be financed from the European Regional Development Fund and which aims to reduce sustainable energy consumption, renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions. Its name is the incorporation of residential buildings into the district heating network or the renewal of a space heater based on solid fuels. The plan is to support nearly two thousand dwellings. As the name of the measure suggests, the main objective of the aid is to support the integration of residential buildings into the district heating network or the renewal of a space heater based on solid fuels in order to reduce air pollution in densely populated areas. It also includes support for replacing old furnaces against less polluting furnaces. Today, solid fuel-based fireplaces are available on the market, with high performance and efficient combustion and more stringent emission rules. So, good members of the Riigikogu, please do not cause confusion! This is support for the exchange or renovation of space heaters against a less polluting or more environmentally friendly space heater. There is no issue in the European Union, now or in the past, for abandoning furnace heating. Any reference to it is speculation. The second question: when it comes to the guidelines of the European Union, I would ask for a brief overview of what are the long-term objectives of the European Union on this issue and what is Estonia's position? Answer. In the European Union, the Air Quality Directive sets air quality standards, limit values and targets aimed at preventing, preventing or reducing the adverse effects of pollutants on human health or the environment. Significant environmental degradation is expected if air quality standards are exceeded. According to the Air Quality Directive, a Member State is required to implement appropriate measures in the relevant air quality area to ensure ambient air quality and to protect the health of its inhabitants. Depending on the area and weather conditions, local heating can cause high levels of fine particles and carcinogenic compounds which are harmful to health. The Ministry of the Environment has organised measurement campaigns in different cities, which have revealed that levels of carcinogenic benzopyrene have increased during the heating period in local heating areas. The following are hereby appointed to the Committee of the Regions for the remainder of the current term of office, which runs until 25 January 2020: Air quality measurements were carried out On the basis of the measurements carried out, the concentration of benzopyrene exceeded the average annual target value per nanogram per cubic metre for each calendar year. As a result, the Tartu City Government's action plan to reduce benzopyrene was completed. Similar trends have shown the results of other measurement campaigns in other cities, such as Viljandi in 2018 and Tallinn last year. The solution to improve the air quality of district heating areas is to replace obsolete hotspots against the newer ones. The European Commission has developed a so-called Ecodesign Directive to reduce the negative impact of furnace heating on air quality and human health, which sets specific air emissions standards for domestic ovens on sale. The third question: has Estonia set or planned to set numerical targets for the number of households that should give up furnace heating with the measure planned in 2022? Answer. There is no such purpose. Nobody has to give up the stove. This narrative has been created by the cliché press, and they have refused to change the title despite the explanations given, clearly recognizing that they are spreading false information. Question 4: Does Estonia also have a longer-term goal, which is intended to stop the use of oven heating in private homes completely in the year? Answer. It is not recommended to stop using oven heating. From the point of view of crisis preparedness, the existence of different independent heating options is very important, and the recommendation is to have a variety of solutions for heating, including furnaces, stoves and fireplaces. Question 5: Is it necessary for a person to break out solid heating appliances, stoves, boilers, or is it sufficient to stop using them, and the heating equipment may remain in reserve? Answer. The conditions for eligibility will be developed at the beginning of this year. Therefore, precise conditions have not yet been set for maintaining old heating sources. Nevertheless, we take into account the importance of maintaining alternative heating options and consider options that would allow the old heater to meet the modern conditions where possible. Question 6: How does the Minister assess the impact of abandoning oven heating on people's readiness to cope independently with various crises, such as long-term power cuts? Answer. Once again, there is no need to give up oven heating. It is true that fire - heated ovens release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, but wood heating is still recognised as a green energy source. This is due to the simple fact that trees bind carbon dioxide as they grow. When a tree is burned in an oven, the amount of carbon dioxide released is just as large as it would have been when the same tree rotted in the forest. The problem of wood heating is emissions from the chimney, especially in densely populated areas such as cities. Many feel that smoke must rise from the chimney of a wood - heated house. In fact, that is not the case. Smoke is an energy-rich gas in a tree, fuel that cannot be exploited. For years, the potters have dealt with the challenge of building stoves that would warm evenly over a long period of time in such a way that the temperature of the dwelling does not fluctuate more than a few degrees a day. And the final question: What alternative sources of heating does the state recommend for people who are abandoning oven heating? Answer. You don't have to give up oven heating. If an old furnace is to be replaced, alternatives may include, for example, a new furnace, renovating an old furnace, connecting to district heating, replacing an existing furnace with an air-water heat pump and converting to geothermal heat. There are several options. They depend on the individual's wishes and the specific nature of the region. The measure will focus on densely populated areas where local heating is the main source of heating and the greatest problems with air quality. The difference between right and wrong heating is huge. It is almost impossible to see or smell the fire in the house in case of clean-burning stoves and high-quality trees. All possible pollution will burn up and turn into heat. Wrong heating produces a large amount of smoke, soot and fine particles, and smell and acid smoke spread around the neighborhood. Skillful knowledge can greatly reduce emissions from all types of furnaces and monsters. We need to get quality trees and get to know the process of burning wood in our fireplaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U38	Members of the Riigikogu have a number of questions for you. Priit onion begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good answer to the questions! Minister, I absolutely agree with you that if you heat the trees, this is a very sensible way and it really does not pay to stuff the film or other plastic waste under the oven or stove so that the neighbors can see that the heating is happening. And I am pleased that the Ministry has found an opportunity to take a measure to support new furnaces or repair old ones. That certainly makes sense, given our disunity and the real behaviour of people. It is regrettable what you referred to, the story that has caused a lot of confusion in the press. But I have a question: in view of our distractions, should we move in the opposite direction, or shouldn't a local government plan be approved if there is no planned chimney and no local heater? Maybe we should move this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U40	Thank you. The availability of alternatives is essential for security and allows for more flexible planning of different heating modes. At the moment, we have not had such a debate in Estonia, which does not mean that it cannot exist, because, to my knowledge, in some places in the Nordic countries, such requirements are that a furnace is required in certain types of houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U41	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U42	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand that the European Union's green policy now has such crazy times that eating meat is a problem, but the problem is the gas of cows and such things. But if we now look at this particular issue and also the answer you have given us, it seems that the European Union directives are the problem, they are the Ecodesign Directive and then they are the Air Quality Directive, and on the basis of them officials have found that we have huge problems, we have a major problem in society that needs to be regulated according to the indicators that come under the directive. And here's the question: is our air quality in Estonia so bad, according to the figures found by these officials, that we should now regulate it and waste energy on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U43	Yeah, thanks! No, the problem is not in the directives, the problem is that at times really air quality is such that it causes people health problems. And that's for a certain period when heating is the most active. So we are simply trying to create a better living environment for people and to reduce the emissions that are generated in these kiln-fired areas. After all, we are not talking about individual forest farms when we are developing this measure, but we are talking about densely populated areas, where everyone in a very dense area heats trees, and we are trying to find some better solution in that area, so it would also be nice to be out during the heating period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U44	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, the truth is that we are constantly sharing the first and the first places in the cleanest country in the world with Finland, so it seems a little bit that we are somehow breaking into the open door here, so is this our most acute problem? But I wanted to ask you that there were only recently amendments to the Energy Taxation Directive here and Estonia's views were discussed. And from there we can read that Estonia approves, our government approves that in the future we will also tax peat and wood in boilers with more than five megawatts of power as heating fuels. These are the kind of settlements like Paide, Rapla, Viljandi. Do you think it would be reasonable for us to start taxing our own firewood and heating and to make additional taxes in addition to heating our homes in these settlements?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U46	Thank you. This is absolutely not about this issue. But there are two sides to energy taxation, and one is to target consumption on a more sustainable fuel, on a renewable fuel, and the other half is to reduce consumption in general. And in this context, the full exemption of any fuel may not be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U47	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U48	Thank you. Dear waitress, Good President! I'm listening here, and you're actually talking about the current situation, you're saying it's all speculation, and so on. In fact, this is not speculation, because we know that this Fit for 55 will be imposed on the Member States by the greeners of the European Commission. And you said no one has to give up the stove. But I'm telling you about life itself. One man is building a house right now and he said he couldn't design... He didn't approve the project when he had designed fireplaces. And he said if I built it, just in case, I won't be able to do it after the permit. How do you comment on that? Actually, at official level, it's already working.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U49	Thank you. I certainly cannot describe this particular case or explain what is there, these details need to be examined. But it is clear that if this fireplace comes into an area where there is air problems anyway, then such questions may arise. But I think that this issue needs a broader debate so that people have a choice on how to heat their own building. For when we speak of those who join the central heating, there is no way to rule out that the same house has its own boiler that can be heated if necessary. Also, if it is either an air-to-water heat pump or it is some kind of ground heating that has the same water heating, then the same system can be very successfully connected to furnaces, stoves and fireplaces that also allow additional heat to be provided. You don't have to use electricity to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U50	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U51	Good manager! Dear Minister, You've been in the office of minister for a few months now, and I'd like to ask you if, in the meantime, the mind has changed or not. They say one, the other and the third fuel could be used in their home. Once we've built a house and brought gas on top of it, which, it seems, should be one of the cleanest fuel, somebody's gonna say we should make a stove. I think one oven with a chimney might be able to get it for 10,000. Then it is said that you could put solar panels and then put air-water- or air-air-heat pump, depending on which house is built. Apart from the energy crisis, where the government has been unable to resolve anything in five months, September said that people's subsidies would come. Today, today's first day in Tallinn, the announcements were received and there was already a message that you could queue in February, January is full. What kind of money do people start putting on these heating devices, five-six so they know what alternatives to make some year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U52	Thank you, Aivar! Let us say that there is no clear air quality problem in gas heating areas, as measured by measurements in wood heating areas, and this measure is primarily intended to improve air quality. Whether to add the same gas boiler, join central heating, or simply replace the existing furnace or boiler with a newer one, which burns more effectively and thereby reduces pollutants, is a question of choice. The aim is still to improve air quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U53	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U54	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, You quite resolutely rejected the claim that banning furnace heating in Europe has been the subject of a ban. Are you wrong now, or have you not Googled properly, or have your officials fallen asleep? If this is not a false claim, this disorder is fully justified. Thus, as early as 14 June 2013 in Postimees, Hanneli Rudi wrote: "In Europe, banning furnace heating is being considered." European Commissioner for the Environment Potočnik met with representatives of the climate and clean air coalition on the European Green Week and supported their idea of banning furnace heating. Well, in the meantime, is it completely buried or, at a time of climate change, could it get worse? So what's the actual data, you really don't have an ear?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U55	Thank you. Officially, no one has come up with such a proposal to ban furnace heating across Europe. There is no such procedure in this respect and there is no such purpose. When we are talking about green turns and improving air quality, the main thing is to deal with these major polluters, to increase the energy efficiency of houses and thereby achieve these goals, not in every single farm to replace oven heating with electric heating, which is not justified in any way. So, let's say, the living fire has other good qualities. This warm warm, but there are still good qualities that make this inner microclimate much better than maybe in some other heat generated by the heating method. So we don't have such a plan to liquidate the stoves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U56	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In fact, you are puzzled here, and I understand that these answers have been written by officials, and these officials have been shaken by trips between the European Union and the European Commission. And what you're offering us is to cook a frog slowly on fire, so today it's not forbidden yet. But the goal is to improve air quality, and tomorrow we will ban it, the day after tomorrow we will ban it, and the day after tomorrow we will ban it all. Well, if primitive man had acted on that logic, he wouldn't have invented a fire at all. And if the aim is to improve air quality, then we need to deal with the development of filters for small homes that collect this pollution, recycle it, and that is the approach. And my question is this: why do you not take a clear position to protect the well-being and interests of the Estonian people, but blind us and try to boil the frog on a slow fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U58	Thank you. At the moment, there is no good technology that would make sense for private homes to capture this pollution. The best known solution today is simply to use a newer and better furnace, where all these pollutants will burn up to the maximum and there will be no significant risk to the environment or human health from that chimney. So in this respect, we're just using more modern furnaces, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U59	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U60	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, most private homes built in the 1980s and early 1990s are actually built on central heating. Maybe the kettle's in the basement or the garage. Does this new measure, which we are talking about now, also provide support for replacing these old inefficient boilers? One thing, I think the stoves are very clean, but rather they are old boilers that pollute and are ineffective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U61	Yeah, thanks! That's right. These boilers can be exchanged for newer and more environmentally friendly ones and have greater efficiency. In addition, when it comes to a region where district heating is possible, it is also possible to join it. However, if not, yes, the renovation of these furnaces or the replacement of these newer ones is indeed in the targeted orbit of this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U62	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Erki, hello again! We met today in the European Commission. After you, there was such a proposal from the European Commission that Member States should be deprived of the freedom of choice to differentiate excise duties on fuels for similar uses, such as motor fuels. Four years ago, no one would have dared to think that such a right would be taken away from a sovereign state. It's exactly the same now. We're talking about wrecking the stove out and giving support for it. We're giving support to get people to break out the stoves. The goal is very simple: will they switch to electric heating, which is subject to huge taxes, or will they remain dependent on central heat carriers? Why do you want to take human rights and freedoms from your warmth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U64	Thank you, good Kalle! You didn't listen to anything I said. We're not talking about people giving up oven heating. What we are talking about is that in areas where these furnaces are not the most efficient, they have already been depreciated, we are helping people to replace them with more effective ones. In this respect, oven heating will certainly remain one way in which we can get a room heater in Estonia for a very long time. And let's just say that when you heat up like this, when you heat it like this, all the fumes and soot particles, that's the potential pollution, it turns into heat. It is useful to monitor the color and smell of the chimney smoke outside such areas. Ideally, it should not be possible to see or smell the heating of trees. The only thing that happens when you burn off completely is this kind of light steam. If anything else comes up, there's a problem with heating it. And these are the problems we are trying to address in this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U65	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Unlike the greenish euro officials, for example, I like it very much when a neighbor heats a stove or a sauna, which is a very good smell. But you were talking about the possible modernisation of old furnaces. Is it hoped that there will be some kind of measures in place or in preparation, how these furnaces will then be renovated or rebuilt? And you mentioned an effective clue. Are there any standards, which furnaces are effective, or some kind of measuring device?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U67	Thank you. Their ovens, which, as it is said, are sold in a ready-made form in a shop, have certificates, but if you let this oven stack a potcepal, you should have a potter's brand that there is burning effective and all these rules are met. So, let's say, if we have such an old-fashioned oven with no ash grate and no air ducts, we'll be able to take advantage of some 40-60% of the energy from burned trees. But if it is replaced by such a clean burning furnace, then the same figure is somewhere 75% and at times even 92% efficiency has been achieved. So in this respect, even less trees go in that case, not to say that it doesn't get so warm. These stoves that have been built here in the past have been built in different houses. The heat-tightness of the houses was quite different, and then it needed to get the oven very hot very quickly, to be warm, and this heating was repeated several times every day. And for the most part, the family composition was so that someone was at home and could make a new fire all the time. This is often not consistent with today's rhythm of life, and if you stay away from home for such a long time, the house has become hopelessly cold. And the purpose of these new furnaces is that they give it warm over a long period of time in such a way that there are no such great fluctuations in temperatures and they are also well suited to houses with a much better thermal stability than they were here 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U68	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U69	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You mentioned here that the European Union's Air Pollution Directive, or what it is called, also calls for air pollution in densely populated areas, where then, due to heating, air pollution is high, the replacement of these heating sources, and you yourself read out what the options are: central heating and electric heating and so on, and so on, and so on, a newer, more efficient oven. But what happens now that some people don't agree to replace it? Will he be sanctioned, fined at some point? And the second is that you said there would be subsidies for 2,000 households. Hey, I'm sorry! 2,000 households are only in Saue, a small town. After all, this support for 2000 households is ridiculously low when such demands are made. How's that? Thank you. There were two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U70	Yeah, thanks! I think that better air quality is a common desire for all of us to be good outside and not have to inhale various exhaust gases. And indeed, this measure we are trying to design in such a way that it can be implemented "regionally," not so that one house in Tartu and the other in Lihula and the third one in Viljandi. It doesn't give you that effect. So if the measurements have shown that there are air quality problems in this area, we would somehow try to solve it in a complex way by region. And I agree with you that this money is extremely low, and perhaps it becomes clear that within this project or this support measure, we will be able to cross over two or three regions and see how such a support measure works. So maybe at some point you have to come back and offer additional opportunities for these renovations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U71	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U72	Good manager! Honorable Minister! Can you highlight the carbon footprint of the preparation, processing of one euro directive, translating into all the official languages of the European Union, printing in thousands of copies and implementing in the legislation of all Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U73	Thank you. No, we have not calculated this in any way under this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U74	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, from my long experience with oven heating, I assure you that heating the oven is very nice and very good. And air pollution as a result of furnace heating also depends very much on dry trees and heating mode. But my question is, however, how many times did you say that you would support households in densely populated areas, either by remodeling fireplaces or by everything else? Could you explain a little bit, which is specifically a densely populated area in the key that we are talking about right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U76	Thank you. The aim of this measure is to improve air quality, and this air quality problem, where there is a shift from some limit values, is first and foremost reflected in a close body. Such a single house somewhere between the woods or on the beach, where there are no more fireplaces nearby, the air is moving much, there is no such great pollution that would have a significant impact on health, and nature can do it better. But if this concentration gets very high, there are very close-up houses, like in densely populated areas, plots are small, houses are very tight, all separately use furnace heating, then sometimes when bad weather coincides, this air becomes one that is no longer the best for health. That is why we are trying to direct this spike there to reduce pollution in these areas through the fact that these furnaces become more efficient, or when alternative methods, such as district heating, can be used in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U77	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You regularly use the term 'air quality is a problem' here, and this is where we are one of the best quality countries in the world. I don't know how deeply you believe that story you're reading, but you know, it's a sucked-out problem. At the moment, we have a serious problem, rather than an enormous amount of poisons that we carry to our fields and which also directly affect the quality of food grown in the fields. Similarly, we have a problem with the pollution of the sea that we have all the time. And my question is, why don't you deal with real problems, such as soil or marine pollution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U79	Thank you. We also deal with the sea and the soil. And it is true that Estonian air is one of the best in Europe. As it sounded before, we're first and second, depending on the year. But that doesn't mean we're perfect. We have the best in Europe, but we can do even better, and that is why we could still solve these single points of pain at the same time. Not so that we reach air quality when all the major problems have been solved perfectly. All things are being dealt with in this respect, but at the same time, let's try to improve the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U80	Ladies and gentlemen, Such a story that there is only one question for a member of the Riigikogu to answer an inquiry. So it's Siim Pohlak's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, it is a great pleasure to hear that the Ministry of the Environment has completely changed its approach since this question was made, and you are no longer talking about replacing oven heating, but are fully focusing on upgrading existing furnaces and boilers. Before, there were heat pumps and all the other things that would be recommended, which could replace the furnaces. There hasn't been any talk about it today, and I hope this new attitude doesn't just stick to words. We will certainly monitor what this support measure will be like. Therefore, just for the sake of certainty, I am asking you more specifically: will the entire amount of money planned for the support measure now be devoted to the renewal of furnaces and stoves, or will there be support for the replacement of furnaces, boilers, stoves by heat pumps or district heating?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U82	Thank you. They're doing all of this, and I said it in my reply. There are a number of options for improving air quality, and the exact choice already depends on the people who receive this support or on those households. For whom the best option or solution is the renovation of the furnace, for whom the boiler can be replaced by or next to a wood-fired boiler, which also allows heat to be provided, either by ground heating or by some kind of gas boiler, as possible in the area. In this respect, all these options are on the table. We're still working on the exact details. This measure could reach use somewhere in the second half of the year and we will try to develop it in such a way as to be able to solve the issue of a specific region in an integrated way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U83	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U84	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Here last autumn, when processing the state budget, the government did not find money for fire safety, where really such decomposed and shocked fireplaces that could have a negative impact on the air could be renewed. And here's my question now. One question is: would it also be possible to link this measure, let us say, to ensuring that it also ensures fire safety? Really, the few hundred thousand that was needed, the government didn't find it. Maybe, maybe it'll be like two in one. And the other part of the question is. Well, it was once that there was enough money for about 2,000 households. But how much is this sum really going to be, what are we discussing right now? So two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U85	Thank you. This measure amounts to 18,5 million. And right now, we've really been counting on nearly 2,000 houses to go over it. As far as this is simply about cleaning the stoves, no, we do not intend to fragment this measure in this way, we still want to keep the focus here. Of course, if this is a problem in the area where the support goes, then it will be resolved in the process, because it is probably also an oven that needs to be renovated at least. So, under this measure, we are not just working on furnace cleaning, but we are still renovating this furnace when the best solution for this particular household is kiln heating. This is, of course, an important issue that you have pointed out, because the soot that comes from heating is a very good insulator. Only a few millimeters of soot will cause a 10% heat loss, because the heat will not get into the room through the furnace shell and just go through the chimney into the yard. In this respect, I urge all users of the oven to also clean your chimneys and heating system so that they are as efficient as possible. And from there the bonus comes the safety theme that they work long and safe. But for this particular measure, yes, the money should be found from another source. And this is certainly a very important measure that you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U86	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! You talk a lot about this air quality. Do we have, certainly do, and can you tell us what standards we need to have in terms of air quality and how much can we pollute and what will come out of it? And then the other half of it is that if we're in a dense settlement or say in a residential area, we're going to switch out the stoves in a complex way, does that mean that we have some kind of team, are the rescue officers going by the houses and saying that you have to change your oven, you can leave your oven and those who are being ordered to change the oven, they'll definitely have to do it and put it on the money, but if we don't have enough, what happens, what sanctions will come up there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U88	Thank you. No, there are no sanctions at the moment, because I believe that people are very interested in getting better and more modern fireplaces. And air quality monitoring The Ministry of the Environment is constantly doing, this is one of the main tasks that are being undertaken. In addition to this, at the moment, measurements have been made in Tartu, Viljandi and Tallinn in oven heating areas and these problems have been identified. I am not telling you these standards in the head right now, yes, we do have these standards, but as this statement already said here, Estonia's air is one of the best in Europe, they are generally in good shape. That we have problems, mostly like in two periods, one has such an active heating period on very cold days, when the air doesn't move very much right there in the heating areas. And the second such troubled moment is in spring, when the weather gets dry and hasn't been able to collect the winter sand on the streets, then there will be dust problems. But at other times of the year, we generally have no problems with air. And if we also look at the new air quality conditions planned by Europe, we have essentially met them, maybe in a few days we have some substances going out of the norm at the very times that I was referring to. But if the members of the Riigikogu wish, I can always send exact standards if they say something. But in other respects, we are still trying to approach friendlyly and see how this measure works, there is reason to discuss whether it is worth doing on a larger scale at some point. This idea works, you'd have a reason to discuss whether it's worth doing at some point on a larger scale, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U89	I would like to remind you once again that every member of the Riigikogu has one question in connection with an inquiry. Well, good minister, it seems there are no further questions. We can go to the negotiations. And the negotiations will be opened by Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U90	Good manager! Good Erki! Erki, I wouldn't want to be you. But today's theme is oven heating. On the one hand, if you look at the Republic of Estonia, whose most area is covered by forests or more than 50%, it is very natural that an Estonian person also uses timber for his home maker. On the other hand, when we listened to our Committee on Monetary Affairs a week ago, with which our government, as we agree, is going to agree in ten years' time, and everyone thinks that in ten years' time, which is more interesting to us, it really was that if I were to bring timber from the forest, I would start paying very hard money for it. If there's any structural residue, the quota's a little lower, but if there's still clean wood, then, oh, my God. Maybe it's more expensive than heating diesel today. And then we're going to discuss that maybe there's going to be some kind of measure this autumn. In my opinion last week, a member of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the Tallinn City Group, suggested that an increase in heating prices or an increase in electricity prices of 200 euros could be compensated for all older people. That's what the Prime Minister said, it's so utopian that it won't do anything. Now we are saying that we support the repair or alternative heating of all the furnaces in our homes, that this number is certainly not 200 euros for the family. I think if someone's bothered to look at the store a little bit, making one stack, buying naked material is starting to go up a thousand and a half. If you go shopping for today's oven, it's going up to 5,000, but 7,000, 8,000, 10,000 to 12,000 is what heats the house properly, and maybe it's really the minimum pollution of our air. What should be discussed now is what alternatives are. When I was riding a cart with my granddaughter in Tammetown, Tartu, in a slightly colder weather last week, it was not possible to breathe because most of them have wood heating. Yeah, that's where our former prime minister lives, and everything else, I'm sure he's got a better solution, maybe, but people are, there's no gas line built there, and maybe the boiler house hasn't been shipped either. Perhaps that's why last week the offer came to me in Tartu, for example, to go with the central boiler house, because someone heard that there was an alternative plan for the Ministry of the Environment. I don't think every private house is going to have a central boiler house route, and when it does, it's going to cost quite a lot, because they didn't know how to tell me that if I asked you okay, I'm willing to join you, if it doesn't pay anything, let's see who's cheaper, either gas or heat coming from the central boiler house. It's not that simple. In my opinion, at present, there are all kinds of solar panel options that in some way help our heating problems and electricity problems, and today the rise in the price of the energy economy as a whole. In reality, Eesti Energia and Eesti Gaas have been in your government for two weeks to talk about how prices can be reduced by half. Today I hear that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has found the place that the law should change, I can give it to you, I have this on the table. But I do not see in any committee today that any committee has discussed this issue. We're having an energy crisis, we're talking about clean air, and then we're talking about maybe 2,000... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U91	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U92	...maybe we'll see how we can put more stoves on. I wouldn't mind if the state compensated me for putting an oven on my house. When I built the house, I had a stove designed there, but I didn't put it in the oven because that price seemed utopian at the time. This price did not go up or down, the price has remained in the same order of magnitude, but just so far alternative heating was as normal. When I looked at the day before yesterday that electricity in Finland cost 21 megawatts an hour, it was in Estonia, if I am not wrong now, whether it was 146. We have failed to do things, and in fact, there are some things agreed today, it is a radar issue, six wind farms have been behind the decision of an official for ten years. Six wind farms! If these six wind farms were working in windy weather, it would not have been a 20% electricity problem and we should not be discussing one, two or three here. But the second, if we come back to this wood, is we really ready today for Estonia, which has forests, to decide that in ten years' time, practically most of the boiler houses in the county centres, their heat, this price will only rise because we agree with the paper written by some European Union officials. If there was a vote in the committee, Rene and I were just the two of us who opposed it. Four coalition politicians took part in the vote and four supported it. He'll pass through the ELAK without being discussed for a very long time. It's always the feeling that in ten years, it won't matter. If I look here in the hall, there's still a lot of young people around here that he'll be affected. I hope I'll be affected in ten more years. We're gonna take a little bit more courage and sense, and knowing you, Erki, I know you're on the right track and you want the best. Stomp your feet in the government a little bit more of a mass you have, you have the courage to actually make the right decisions. And there's an alternative today. We support our people to start by putting solar panels on their roofs for both electricity and heat production, especially for the production of hot water. This is one way to keep energy prices down and at the same time to keep CO2 in place, so that Estonia's air remains clean. Thank you. Erki, power to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the case that the representative of the heirs himself should have the floor earlier. Would Mart Helme like to come to the remote now? [[Mart Helme answers from the hall.]] Well, Mr. Onion's gonna put up with everything, I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U94	President-in-Office of the Council. It's not like we're gonna get into a fight because there's a bit of a mess in the line. Ladies and gentlemen, not only colleagues, but also those who may be watching us through other channels and means. The fact that we are discussing such a subject here is kind of absurd. If we specifically take Estonia, specifically Estonia, a country that is 45 and a little bit after a thousand square kilometres, the purity of our air does not depend solely on what we do in Estonia. The purity of our air depends very much on what is being done in our neighbouring countries. We're getting air all over the planet. Large industrial companies in central England send their pollution beautifully and nicely to us with winds blowing from the Atlantic. And even Scandinavian woodland can't actually clean it up, because Britain is still one of the most advanced industrial nations in the world. Despite the fact that already somewhere in the 60s and 70s in the past century, smog problems and smoke cleaning coal-fired fireplaces were seriously addressed and in a relatively short time, maybe somewhere in six to seven years London was able to clean the smogs thanks to filters put on chimneys, on the chimneys of larger boiler houses, but also on the chimneys of houses. If the minister said there were no such filters before, there are such filters. They are produced in the world, and they can certainly be brought to us here too, and I do not even rule out that it is not so complex technology that we cannot develop and produce them ourselves here. They're real. But the European Commission, which is hogging, completely pathologically hogging power from the Member States under its stomach, has decided to go down the road of banning everything, banning everything. We can also see in the context of the Korona, how we ban everything: not going out, not going to the cafeteria, not going to the other place, not going to the other place, not going to the third place, not banning it, not needing anything. This is unacceptable. It is also not in the interest of technological development to ban progress. Banning is the stupidest thing, the stupidest thing any idiot can do. But to solve the problem in a different way, it is more complicated, and in the European Union, which is made up like a patchwork, it is loved to say, from very different countries, from very different traditions, customs and also from countries with weather conditions, of course, the easiest way: banning, giving up a directive, putting a directive to the head. If they don't agree, they'll agree. If we don't agree, we'll twist our hands. You can't do that. You can't do that. Look, I'm already a mature person, as I love to say, and even Stalin allowed a person to heat up a room. Now they're trying to tell us that no, friends, doesn't heat, sit in the cold. I wanted to ask the Minister a second question, maybe the Minister wants to come back to the remote, maybe he can answer that question. Have you also made calculations of how many homes there are in Estonia, how many households need heating readjustments, insulation of buildings and what costs and who will pay and who will deliver these necessary resources? It's not that simple. The simplest thing to do, I say, is forbid any fool. But it's Lego, you have to put together the next pieces of the puzzle. But who's gonna put them in place, what are these pieces, what's gonna cost to get these pieces, to set them up? Do we have any know-how? These are now further questions. And these follow-up questions, I'd like some answers. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U95	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U96	And when we talk about resetting. Look, I'm like this, Moonika and I are like this, we have a lot of households. We have these houses, I don't know how to count from the fingers of one hand, I'm not bragging right now, but I'm just saying that I know about the problems with different houses, different heating systems: ground heating, electric heating, air heat pump, normal oven, normal fireplace. Everything's been tried. There is no other type of heating other than wood heating, which doesn't need any more electricity. In the city, we have a central heating boiler. In the central heating boiler, his electronics need electricity. The power was out today, and in a few hours the radiators were cold. What did I do? In the meantime, we went home, made a fire in the fireplace. But where did I get the tree? After all, Estonia is almost a desert country, and there is almost no forest here anymore. In the meantime, we had huge forest hysteria: Is there another tree left? There were a few complaining when the voice shook. Well, there's some trees left, some trees left so much that I've managed to heat it up. This is an indispensable alternative in our climate conditions, so that each building has one of the cheapest, I would stress, the cheapest, most accessible local types of heating. It's a stove, a stove, a recording fireplace, whatever it is, but that's what we have to have. If the current government and the current minister, whom I respect very much, have not learned from the current electricity crisis, which resentment, concern and rage is caused by the fact that people are being deprived of their basic human right in the form of electricity, when you think that the removal of basic human right in the form of heating monsters is being taken away, that it does not cause the same resentment, then you will be mistaken. And if the European Commission is stubbornly pressing it on us, I will say that I do remember how the 2003 campaign went: we are entering the European Union, it is the richest economic community in the world. We enter the European Union, there are many beautiful men. We enter the European Union, there is a free market, and what is there is, we get rich, we get happy, you see, we have not become rich, we have not become happy. But on the contrary, they want to ban everything more and more. Once again, even Stalin promised to heat up the room for people, but see, the Euro-Communists even want to take away this luxury. There are no words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U97	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are many beautiful women in Estonia. Everyone of us knows this, it is a natural part of Estonia, just like when we describe these homes or farms, where one sees smoke or chimney of living to another, which is described. This is a natural and natural thing that we know in Estonia, which is not being questioned or, rather, so far, has not been questioned by anyone. The fact that we are discussing such a matter here today is really a bit of a mess. And I am very pleased that colleagues from the EKRE turned to this question. It is a pity that the Ministry has not received the same explicit answer as the Minister has stressed here today that it is either a false alarm or a journalistic interpretation or an interpretation. However, I also dare to think, like my fellow Members, that where there is smoke, there is fire. If we look at the objectives that are set in the various documents, including this objective 55, which has been discussed once in this Chamber, I very much hope that we will discuss it again, then I will remember this debate at the long-distance session, where a representative from the Commission Commissioner spoke of this hall, that if Europe takes on this goal, then no one in the world will want to lag behind. But I think we all know what we're doing today in China or India. And to talk about the fact that if Europe sets a bar so high that it does not see it itself, let alone jump over it, assuming that the rest of the world is following it, I find it absolutely absurd. I think that much more important is what we are seeing at this time, that crises are in no way history and past, that we live from one crisis to another, also in the current context, where there is a crisis of both electricity and security, and, in my opinion, for each and every one of us, or it should be clear that the people and families who can manage their lives as independently as possible on all issues. One way to be sure is that if a household has its own fireplaces, just as the Minister and I exchanged our thoughts here, it makes sense that heating trees does not give rise to any huge emissions when we talk about heating normal trees. Indeed, in Estonia, it still happens that, first of all, people are breaking down their furnaces, although there is a long experience, they are still able to get into all kinds of crap so that these furnaces are broken down. The problem of chimneys has been mentioned today, but in reality heating with trees, clean dry trees, is very sensible both for society and for the environment. This certainly must remain so in my opinion. And I do call on my colleagues to think about what I asked for and said. I think it is quite worth thinking about the permits granted for the construction of these individual buildings, whether we really have reason to issue building permits in scattered areas, unless a chimney and a fireplace are planned for these dwellings. I think it is important that we give this signal in society so that people can think about how to cope with difficult circumstances. It is not just a pleasant summer, but it is necessary to cope with all kinds of times and conditions. So I'm hoping that this 18,5 million that the minister was talking about will be some of the other fires, some of the new ones. These opportunities exist. And I very much hope that we should no longer talk about heating an oven in Estonia, whether in a sauna or at home, somehow by the way. So go and make your own decisions and your own trees. And the ministry, too, let's make sure we don't run after that understanding that extends, I don't know, from Milan to the village of Misso. There are important differences in how to organise life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U99	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U100	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, At first, it seemed like we were in some kind of dope and we didn't know what we were talking about. What we are talking about today has long been happening in Europe. [The reason] why I wasn't in the hall I was looking for the materials I had a year ago. This was actually done in the coal region in northern Poland as early as 2016. You know, there's a town like this. In January 2016, the Sejm of Kraków adopted a decision: to break out ovens not only ovens, but also grills and fireplaces, and to replace modern gas ovens. In today's context, of course, there are no precise data on how they look at it. I have taken a few articles here, extracts with me, already 2015, the problem of energy poverty in Poland was very serious. Okay, January 2016 semi decision. And the grant was so that 2016 was paid 100%, 2017 80%, 2018 60%, and 21000 stoves were destroyed, but most remained. That's not enough. I'm talking about Kraków right now, but there were quite a few towns where these things were done or thought. Reality in 2016, 2017, 2018 and so on. In many places, such as Katowice, drones were invented, connected to local police cars. Because the heat was Satan's and had to make sure that the chimney [smooth] didn't come, but then the city authorities hung these drones in Katowice and they signaled them in police cars and then came and fined them. I'm not gonna burden you with how many of these fines were fined there, but in November 2017, 3,000 citizens, the owner of the house, were fined. What else? There were some other things, for example, in July 2018 it was the Katowice decision to switch from furnaces with a fine particle size of 1000 milligrams per cubic metre to 60-[milligrams]. I mean, you do the math, 60 out of 1,000. The proposal was that it should be by 2026. So the time was given in 2018 for eight years. But some, and then there were also solid furnaces called some fifth-generation furnaces, I'm not going to name which ones, and they had to then. But, as usual, some cities, and not just cities, there were quite a lot of them, they took an early pace, like we are now here with a green turn. Not 2026, but 2022. I don't know if that's the case right now, Kraków should have already achieved it all. And according to my information, at least 17 more towns and districts. I don't know if that's true. So actually... Oh, yeah. And then this support to make it clear what the Poles did. The allowance per household was up to EUR 3700. And it was supposed to break the oven out. Another thing, buy a new oven, a gas oven, and build a chimney around. As I said, here some cities started to get 100%, then 80%, then 60%. And even if it wasn't then, there were heavy fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U101	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U102	Yeah, I'd like a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U103	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U104	Thank you. So that's the practice, and it's actually happened. I do not now have an overview of whether the transition has already taken place in many Polish cities. And I've got an article here where you're not going to tell a long story right now, and the title is that it's not a question of heating with coal or any of its derivatives, but of heating with trees, of breaking out the ovens. Replace the furnaces. Anyone who wishes, I can introduce these articles, which I have printed out some of them. So it's all been. And at the same time in Estonia, you remember, I have separated my so-called rooftop money from my own one year to Tartu County that the flammable, these red and orange homes, where the fireplaces are in a very bad state, are repairing them. But the roofing money of a member of the Riigikogu doesn't make much for remodelling the fireplaces that are so expensive. And what's on the list, these black fireplaces are hopeless. Well, who loves firewater and such a life of runts or somehow caught in the cogs. But these red ones, these homes, there are quite a lot where there are people who are, so to speak, not only energy-poor, but with difficult problems, and they are handed out by municipalities and the state. So this problem, which could be a fire, could occur at any moment of God's life. So this is a real problem, and so far neither the state nor the municipalities, since there is a cost-sharing on two, very many are looking forward to this blissful moment when this opportunity arises. So there is nothing new here and we could talk more about what kind of Poland it has been in. I am not surprised that at one point it will also reach Estonia. We do not heat with coal, with trees, there are trees in the forest, but as a European directive, the initiative to rush towards a big green turn, why not? And how much service! New stoves, stuff. I don't know if it's gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U105	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In some ways, it is rather grotesque that we are discussing this in today's climate and, perhaps, in the energy situation. In view of the climate crisis, it could be said that, in fact, for Estonia, the use of wood for heating is one of the most sensible and affordable ways, probably not only to get warm but also to obtain electricity today. If we look at the climate, this is one of the most sensible sustainable methods of obtaining this same energy. These concerns, which have been thrown into the air once, so that suddenly the ovens should be broken out or any cardinal changes made here, I hope that the Minister, with his speech, has now given enough dispersal of these thoughts and created such a clearer legal space. Because there must be some doubters who keep trying to question the use of wood. In fact, they also call themselves green. But I liked the idea of my good groupmate, Priit Sibula, that one of the design conditions for the construction of a new house with a chimney and an electricity-independent heating solution could actually be included in the diffuse settlement. This is a sensible and very well-founded proposal. Not only to get cheap and environmentally friendly energy, but also to create security in certain crisis situations. I would like to add another point to this question, which I also asked the Minister, and actually to clarify my point a little, because the minister only responded to it. Well, he broadly agreed, however, that this issue is relevant and topical, but perhaps there may not be enough money for it and that cannot be solved without concern. We are talking about ensuring fire safety through the elimination of bad or decomposed fireplaces. The state had a very good programme, which, together with the municipalities, was then financed, where half of the money was provided by the state, half was given by the municipality and the most critical fireplaces were repaired, fireproofed. Of course, this measure also contributed to energy efficiency, because the repaired fireplace was certainly more energy efficient, less wood was needed and also more affordable. And now, if you look at this planned measure, which should provide some 2000 households with new wood-fired fireplaces, if there is money, why not, then this fire safety aspect should certainly also be taken into account. Maybe if in a region... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U107	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U108	... the renovation of furnace heating will be implemented, then it should certainly be seen as an additional point whether or not there is an improvement in the fire safety situation. Then we could really use the funds more efficiently and still find a solution or an alternative to the decision taken by the coalition when it processed the budget here and excluded a few hundred thousand euros. These are the two important messages that I would like to bring to you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we have wood in the forest, the nature and quality of firewood is in the forest, I would say, even regrettably much. Therefore, wood heating, it is in the form of furnaces or in some other way, is very relevant to Estonia. And if we take these measures now, let us not forget fire safety. Let us take two in one of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U109	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who listen and watch in this hall or outside the hall! I am very pleased, in fact, that this issue here has found quite a careful debate. And there have been a number of fundamental questions that I want to sum up afterwards and make a proposal to the Minister in the form of a complaint. First of all, we recall that we have had time to consider the number of villagers and residents in cigarettes. Smoke is what characterizes the way the village lives. Lives in a village, lives in Estonia, we know that. However, from this measure, from the point of view of, or from the point of view of, the measure that we have raised questions, I would now like to say, after these presentations, that the good minister, this is a'very exciting measure' in quotes, that is too little. This is too little in a financial sense, too little in a volumetric sense, and the question arises of why then, well why in a situation where we are living from a crisis? As we can see, we have a government crisis, we have an electricity crisis, we have an economic crisis, we have one crisis ending, the other comes, not to mention the corona crisis. We also have the question that why do we deal with things when we know that we have almost the cleanest air in the world and there is nothing to ruin it, or if there really comes from somewhere, I don't know about the big black clouds from the left or the right, the east or the west that we can't see now, but basically we're in the clean air. We have more forest than many other countries. We have over 50 forests, we know that more than 50%, we know that even when used in heating, it is ecological, it is clean and useful. We know that things should be dealt with at the right time, on the right scale at the right time and in a way that makes sense. I would like to make a complaint here to the good minister and, in fact, to all members of the government, as I said earlier, in the form of a proposal, to be guided by Article 87 (2) of the Constitution, which says very specifically and very clearly that it is the responsibility of the government, the members of the government, to manage and coordinate the activities of officials, the authorities. And good members of the government, then lead and coordinate the activities of the government institutions in such a way as not to engage in substitution activities!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U111	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber! First of all, I thank the Minister for his answers. I'm glad we were able to bring about a little change by asking for it. The emphasis of the Ministry, at least in the Minister's replies today and in the Ministry's latest press releases, has already moved from replacing stoves, stoves, fireplaces to renewing them. Even thinking that furnace heating could be abandoned is, to put it mildly, a dangerous approach from the point of view of preparing for crises that are alien to life and in our climate. Not to mention the customary way of life for Estonians, which for many means fireplace, oven or Sunday evening sauna. If the Ministry of the Environment has a desire to promote something, I propose that a genuinely decent support mechanism be set up for this planned measure to increase the diversity of heating sources in private houses, which will encourage the construction of new furnaces and fireplaces in residential buildings where this is possible and the repair of existing local space heaters, along with electricity-dependent heating. Finally, I hope that the abandonment of local heating in Estonia will no longer be an issue soon. In addition, regardless of the European Union's green objectives, priority must be given to the well-being and safety of the Estonian people and also to the fact that the state does not really have the right to decide for its citizens which heating appliance or heating source it needs or uses and whether it is going to a sauna with a wooden or electric heater. Given the scorched electricity and heating bills and the continued instability of the energy market and the climatic conditions of Estonia, ovens, stoves, fireplaces in our homes will remain important for decades, if not hundreds. And I ask the Ministry of the Environment to take this fact into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U113	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U114	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, well, that's not the point. In fact, Europe has been discussing how to limit furnace heating for years, and a good colleague, Peeter Ernits, has also made a factual point here on the things that have already been done. In the case of Estonia, this is to some extent an overreaction, because we know that Estonia is one of the cleanest countries in the world. And if we're even talking about doing something and how to move forward, then really, we should discuss these solutions, how to put between possible filters, make solutions that would enable us to heat up our own resources, our own timber that we have enough in Estonia, and there are a very large number of forest owners in Estonia who have more, who own less forest and who have the resource for that, so it must definitely stay that way. But what I want to mark is that every day we hear a lot about the fact that, during the energy crisis, when we discuss how we have got there, why is this, how nobody noticed anything, looking at the government's positions for the European Union, in which we see it, the current government envisages that in ten years' time we will be ready to tax our mineral resources on security and also on timber, by heating chips in boilers with more than five megawatts of power, I have a bad suspicion that in ten years' time we will discover ourselves again in a situation where everything is amazed at how we got here, how it is now. Perhaps here, in fact, society and the press have a very important role to play, that today, by affirming the positions of Estonia by the government to the European Union, where we are prepared or supported by the fact that, in the context of this green turn, we will start taxing both peat and the heating of Estonian timber and wood, this debate must now, the discussion must go on in society, not that one day again discovering how this happened. This is very important and maybe it'll get more on the table. But it has to be said that attention has been drawn, as the previous speaker said, then I believe that our Ministry of the Environment and the Government as a whole will also draw their own conclusions from this. We hope that Estonians will still have a sober whole peasant's mansion, that we will be able to heat our homes in our stoves in 100, 200 and 300 years' time if we want to make fire into the fireplace, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U115	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and people! Today, an inquiry was made by the Estonian Conservative People's Party to encourage the abandonment of oven heating in private houses. The aim is that the state has started to encourage the closure of kiln heating and will start to pay aid this year for the abandonment of kiln heating. Before I go any further on this issue, I want to talk today about what happened in the Committee on European Union Affairs, because it has a direct connection to today's subject. The European Union Affairs Committee was held today, where the European Commission came up with a draft asking the Government of the Republic of Estonia for support in the fact that Member States are deprived of the freedom of choice to differentiate excise duties on fuels of similar use, such as the use of motor fuels. Can you imagine removing the freedom of choice from an independent state? The question arises as to whether we are now even an independent state. And the representatives of the government, of course, said that we would not support it and that we would go there with our proposals. Imagine an independent state going with its proposal. I don't understand what's going on. Are we already a federal state of the European Union from which the de jure has not yet been drawn up? Why am I saying this now? As you can see, no one could have believed four years ago that the European Commission dared to come up with such proposals. But here's the beginning, offering good and better, and finally putting forward the fact that we're doing this. And that's exactly what it's like to pay off this oven heater with a discount. At first, we pay support for people to go along and later veto the ban on furnace heating. I listened very carefully to Minister Erki Savisaar, who insisted on one fact that air cleanliness is important I do not believe that he does not know that, in terms of air cleanliness, Estonia and Finland in the European Union can be made to share the first place and the second place. And the inadequacy and absurdity of this argument also shows that if we take global CO2 emissions, then the European Union, the European Union, is a share of this 9%. Estonia's, how much do you think it is? 0.01%. And if we want to force people not yet, but surely this moment will have to give up oven heating, I would like to know how much, what is this percentage of 0.01 and how much does it affect this air purity? As we understand, the subject has not been studied and these numbers are unknown. Obviously, this measure, which has already been warmed up here for a long time here at the Ministry of the Environment, has its goal of making people... Can I have an extra three minutes, please? [[President: Please, three minutes extra time.]] Make people dependent on monopolistic businesses, electricity, district heating. Maybe get real control of people. As we know, electricity, electric heating, which is currently electricity prices. If people don't obey, we'll turn off the power. The same is warm, people don't obey, let's turn the heat down. Maybe they'll take away the right to get a warm, cheap warm in this crazy world. I would close my presentation today very abruptly and would say that what happened here with the withdrawal of the freedom of choice for excise duties on fuel will also happen with the obligation to abandon oven heating. And it is high time, it is high time we shut the door with a bang in this European Union as the English did in the United Kingdom. Because if we don't have freedom of choice, we're no longer an independent state. But I would like to remind you, just in case: according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we are independent and independent and we are trying to stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U117	There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and with that we have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U118	Our second item on the agenda today is the hearing of the members of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, Leo Kunnas, Merry Aarti, Henn Põlluaasa, Rene Koka, Uno Kaskpeiti, Siim Pohlak, Alar Lanemani, Kalle Grünthali, Urmas Reitelmanni, Ruuben Kaalepi, Helle-Moonika Helme, Riho Breivel, Mart Helme, Peeter Ernitsa and Jaak Valge on the serious changes to education in kindergarten education. And as the representative of the inquisitors, please, Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U119	Minister, thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good listeners! The title of our inquiry is 'True changes in kindergarten education' and indeed, very serious changes we are talking about. These changes, planned since the autumn of this year in the new early childhood education curriculum, are very profoundly and globally relevant to what we see as a happy childhood in which our children will grow up in the world. Is it a world of nature and tradition, minds, feelings and perceptions or a world of screens and virtual realities, social media and urbanised mass culture? The Ministry wants to bring digital education to kindergartens with a new curriculum. A simple comparison between the current curriculum and its planned curriculum shows that closeness to nature and national culture are most affected. What are the values for which this is done? Words of tolerance and equality come in in the new curriculum. Are they the same, in quotes of 'tolerance and equality', in which nationalism and traditions that have made Western European cities a violent multicultural paradise from which Europeans flee? Minister, is this what you want to bring to Estonia? Is that what you want to impose on kindergartens already? What is the refuge of this young Western European who is losing his homeland, who has not been trained from the low ground to respect their national culture and to know nature? He doesn't see a future for his country to bet on with his hands. He's cut off from his culture and tradition. His refuge is usually virtual world, computer games, and internet communities. They will be the only places where he will be exposed to myths and heroism, community feeling, traditional masculinity, and femininity in this depressive world. This will give us the answer to why virtual reality becomes the most addictive drug in the history of the world. Already today, access to social media on the Internet for many people is basically the same basic need as food, clothing, electricity, heating and so on. Such a person, when taken away from his smart phone, becomes restless and there are hundreds of cases of violence. In our society, there is a massive addiction problem. This is a real global pandemic, of which very little is said. Of course, children and young people are the most vulnerable to it. We have no awareness of these problems. Our Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs do not even recognise the depth of the crisis, although this is precisely the subject of raising people's awareness, putting posters on the streets, but, above all, educating teachers, parents, all those who are exposed to children of the most vulnerable age. Fortunately, there are more and more informed parents and teachers in both Estonia and the world. Most of them tend to be among psychologists and IT professionals. For example, Silicon Valley set up Apple, eBay, Google and Yahoo executives for their children at a private school with no screens. Why? Because those who work in this field every day are the most aware of how harmful they are for children. And they want to create natural and digitally poor conditions for their children to grow in their natural environment. There are also such private schools and kindergartens in Estonia. I wonder if the early childhood education curriculum is now imposing digital resources on them too? Mental health disorders, depression and world segregation through smart addiction are not the only concerns that the virtual world brings to children. If someone claims that moving digital tools to kindergarten will help us grow future IT geniuses, then it's bullshit and woof-tale with no evidence basis. It is in this area that scientists and experts stress that smart devices and digital tools limit and hinder the development and creative thinking of a child's brain. Honourable listeners! Good minister! The draft curriculum for early childhood education has already given rise to a great deal of response and criticism among both parents and teachers across Estonia. With its extremely critical views, you have already been approached by the Chamber of Representatives in the field of education. I sincerely hope that you will listen to this criticism and draw conclusions accordingly. Is that it? We hope to get answers to that now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U120	Lina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I listened to you and thought that we were not at all opposed. I fully agree with you that computer addiction, computer gambling addiction, is a serious problem and is an ever-increasing problem, and this problem has grown especially during the COVID crisis. For example, a survey conducted by the Education Forum among parents showed that computer dependence deepened and increased during the period of distance learning during COVID. That's a problem. If we look at more numbers, a survey of children in the fifth, seventh and ninth grade in 2018 showed that 16% of young people are computer addicts. 16%! That's a very high percentage. That's a problem. Of course, that's a problem. And half the young people play just like that, playing two hours in a school day. Almost 70% play three and a half hours on weekends. Almost 70% of young people spend three and a half hours on a computer playing with a computer. And if you look more closely at children of early childhood education, you have to admit that these figures, too, are really worrying. For example, according to OECD data, internet use among children up to eight years of age has increased significantly in recent years, and it is the task of the education system to develop responsible and secure online behaviour in the child by teaching the child the dangers of using the Internet with digital tools. And that's what we're trying to do. If we look more closely at Estonian data, Estonia's parents estimate that 39% of five-year-old children use a desktop or laptop, tablet or smartphone every day. 39% of five-year-olds! For children between zero and three years of age, almost 40% of daily computers are used by children between zero and three years of age. These are very high percentages. Of the three - year - olds, 60% use either smartphone or tablet every day. What I'm trying to say is that there is a problem, and in no way do I agree that the Ministry of Education and Research would ignore it. On the contrary, why changes have been made to the early childhood education curriculum is precisely in order to meet the objective that you are also saying in order to teach children how to behave safely on the Internet, how to use the Internet or not only the Internet, but smart devices and tablets in such a way as to make profits so that they are not harmed. Now, this road has gone completely free, and that's why we see that for hours they sit behind a computer playing, not using, as Jaan Aru, quoted by you, to learn this super machine. There are also very thought-provoking data on this. Most or say, a very large proportion of young people who are very much on the Internet, who are as if very internet and digitally aware, do not use these tools to learn. These data are also available, there are very few who use these devices to learn, and that is a problem. But now I will try to answer your questions and say in advance that if I am short of time, I will be happy to send you further information in writing so that it is correct. Question one. How thoroughly do you know about the risks identified by many experts that lead to the introduction of digital technologies to children at an early age? Yes, we are aware that many of these studies have been carried out, have been carried out in Estonia, have been conducted in international studies. We are aware of this, and this curriculum is precisely based on the fact that we will teach as early as possible when we know that children already have these devices, that kindergartens in Estonia also have these devices at home, that we will teach them how to behave safely in these environments and that is, above all, to practice positive behavioural patterns. Of course, no one has expected or expected children in kindergarten to be handed tablets to simply watch cartoons or something entertaining. In kindergarten, according to the curriculum, firstly, the use of digital tools is very moderate, and secondly, only and only for the purpose of pedagogical purposes. For example, Lego technology is a robot that is also taught in kindergartens. I have also been to several kindergartens myself, where there are basic programming skills, how a child learns, how he step by step instructs a robot to move according to the prescribed path. This is moderate, and it is certainly pedagogical. Question two. How does the implementation of the new curriculum ensure that kindergarten teachers are aware of the harmful effects of digital technologies and smart devices on children's mental health? This is very important and, in fact, by studying as a teacher, the curricula cover and teach this topic. In Tallinn and Tartu, learners will pass through a number of subjects that address exactly the topics you have raised. In addition, the informed use of digital technologies is also described as a mandatory component in the teacher's professional standard. So people in the educational system can see very directly the impact of home use of computers and there are certainly no enthusiasts who would simply like to have smart solutions used within school days without a pedagogical purpose. A kindergarten teacher can complete subjects such as digital literacy, multimedia opportunities in different subjects, and programming and robotics in different subjects. Question three. What should parents who do not want their children to be exposed to digital technology before they reach school age do? First of all, kindergartens must always coordinate their education with parents. Parents need to be aware of what is done in kindergarten, and if the parent is not comfortable with what kindergarten plans to do, then there can be dialogue and solutions will certainly be found. It is very important that this is done in cooperation, and indeed, we know that there are, for example, Waldorf kindergartens, and there are still very good kindergartens based on various alternative pedagogies, with zero tolerance for information technology tools, and that is understandable, such an option must certainly also exist in early childhood education. And quite confidently, I will say that no one is going to refuse or, on the contrary, no one is going to force the use of information technology. The dangers that prevail on the Internet can also easily lead to children in different classes. This does not require the immediate use of these devices. What you should do with a child... Oh, that question was. Why is there no learning method, which has been an important part of the new curriculum so far, that directs children to spot, explore and experience the world around them through games and everyday activities, allowing children to perceive the environment through different senses and stings: observing, sniffing and tasting, tasting, listening to sounds? This principle has not been waived in the up-to-date national early childhood education curriculum. § 18 (1) (2) of the national early childhood education curriculum provides as a principle for education and education activities in the field "Me and the environment" the following: directing the child through the world of play and daily activities to observe, study and experience. The principle, which describes that activities in pre-school education must be diverse, allowing children to use all their senses and stings, is expressed in the national early childhood education curriculum through a number of different points. Here I could send you these in writing, I'm just running out of time if you're willing to accept this, which points will be highlighted in the national curriculum. I'm sure it's extremely important. No one wants to give it up. It's perfectly clear. What are the financial costs of introducing digital learning into kindergartens? I will say right away that there are no special new measures to bring digital learning into kindergartens in any way. We have had a ProgeTiger program for a long time, through which kindergartens have bought different robots. I've seen them, they're really very child-friendly, they're not screens that practice these basic programming skills, and it's not an obligation, it's an opportunity for kindergartens. Robotic activities in early childhood education have also been supported separately through the Science Interest Education Alliance. What activities are the Ministry of Education and Research planning to raise awareness and prevent parents and kindergarten teachers from developing the risks of digital dependence, mental health of young children? I very much agree, and I am pleased that you are raising this because the awareness of parents or parents about digital dependence, about the way it develops, about the way it develops, is extremely important and is particularly important in the case of young children, where these habits develop. For example, 14 to 15 years ago there was no such knowledge when the first iPads came to the market. Families were happy to buy them, deliver them to the children, and there was no knowledge. I admit it myself: I didn't have that knowledge either. Today we have very good scientific articles, very good speakers, such as Jaan Aru, who will inform us what these threats are and how to manage and keep their children safe in this digitalised environment. So parenting programmes on such topics are very important, although they have not been the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research, I think they are primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but I agree that this must be dealt with and that such programmes should be for children. For example, there are "Smart on the Internet" educational materials, guidelines. They also exist for parents. Why have the festivals of the Estonian people been excluded from the new curriculum in the field of "Me and the Environment"? Not excluded. Chapter 2 § 3 (4) clearly states: Estonian nursery stands for the preservation and development of Estonian language and culture. Culture and related traditions and customs in early childhood education are a fundamental focus. The anniversaries of the Estonian people are an important part of the cultural space, and in early childhood education the planning of the academic year is very common and appreciated, precisely on the basis of the folk calendar and its anniversaries. This is clearly extremely important. I'm sorry if it didn't come out when you read that it didn't work out that well, but it seems to me that maybe you didn't really count it to the end. And now the last one. Why has "Me and the Environment" been excluded from the new curriculum that a 6-year-old should describe the best-known plants and mushrooms in the home? Here too, § 18 as a result of education and education activities, a child who is 6 to 7 years old knows the characteristics of his/her home place and is able to describe the nature of his/her home place, can describe nature and people's activities in different time cycles. So clearly, these issues continue to play an important role in the national curriculum for early childhood education, and this current version of the national curriculum for early childhood education has also been discussed with early childhood education specialists and, in essence, very little has been changed there. And I will conclude by saying that this is a round of coordination. Whether it will come into effect this autumn, I do not dare to confirm it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U122	Paul's woodland starts with questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U123	Thank you very much, good waitress, for a thorough presentation. But I realized that efforts are primarily aimed at developing digital literacy so that children can use the Internet, especially in programming. It has also been understood that there are indeed certain dangers here, that they are known and that they are also trying to inform parents and teachers about them. This development has taken place and, of course, it is great in itself. But after all, the greatest danger we see in all this digitalisation is that if there is excessive use, if it starts too soon and happens too uncontrollable, then there are different digital addictions, gambling addictions. This is now what should start starting somewhere, developing, teaching or warning. Maybe at some age, you should start by being addicted. The child himself must be made aware. Are these programs also designed to make children aware? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U124	Thank you. That's the right question. I was trying to tell you that this is precisely why this issue has been introduced into early childhood education in order to raise awareness of these threats as early as possible. We also see from statistics that children have tablets and smartphones in their homes, they use it at home anyway. And we also see in statistics that they actually use it too much. Where can we give children information about how wise it would be to be on the Internet, how long would it make sense to be there? For small children, this is an extremely minimum time in terms of screen time. That is the idea of making this sense of danger as early as possible, that if you are on the Internet, if you are using different smart solutions, you would be consciously doing it for the right purposes. We've kind of got a lot of... That is it, we have been constantly developing on this subject, and we have said that very early on, programming must be taught and all kinds of digital skills developed, but really the danger side has been overlooked. These threats are real. And now we are saying that there is also a need to talk about these threats, and above all at the earliest possible age, so that these patterns of behaviour do not become self-damaging. Today, we see from statistics that these patterns of behaviour have in many cases become self-destructive. And this is our adult job.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U125	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Kindergarten education is indeed such a tender and sensitive subject, and it lays the foundation for personality development, and that is why there is a great sense of responsibility. I would ask this question: does this bill include the views of psychologists or neuroscientists, or has it been asked whether they, like, accept all these things or have they made any of their proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U127	Thank you. This curriculum and the early childhood education law have been prepared for a very long time. This preparation has already started during the previous government, and I am pretty sure that universities have certainly been consulted on these proposals. But I am saying that it is in the early childhood education curriculum that we are talking about trying to do precisely this prevention and information work on IT dependence, that we want to contribute to this in particular. Today, we see that this is the problem, even in schools, we need to talk more and more about the problem of smart addiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U128	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm listening to what you're saying, and I can't be surprised that we have to introduce the digital world to our children early on, so to speak, so that they can understand these dangers as soon as possible. In such a case, we should also introduce risk demonstration methods from kindergarten onwards, that we are going to share cigarettes with children in kindergarten, let them feel how bad it is. We give a glass of wine, let them drink and puke, they know how bad it is. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. It's not how we introduce danger, it's how we tempt them. That's the question. See if you can figure it out. Children must be kept in natural life, children must be introduced to the forest mushrooms, they must be introduced to the nature of their home. I think this approach is the right one. Right now, you're creating your own drug addiction in digital terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U130	Thank you. Of the three-year-olds 60%... Listen to me, Kalle Grünthal! 60% of three-year-olds use screens every day, every day. Forty percent of the 0-to-three-year-olds use screens every day and they do not do it, dear Kalle Grünthal, in kindergarten. They don't do that in kindergarten. There's no time to watch the screen in kindergarten. They do it at home, they have these things at home. I fully agree with your question of inquiry. Parental education is vital. These kids don't grow up as addicts in kindergartens, they don't grow up as addicts in kindergartens. The question is what is the awareness of parents, how much and how to give a screen to a school - age child, whether a smartphone or a tablet, and what does he do there? What's important is what he's doing there. It certainly does not depend, in no way contributes to the smart addiction of the proposed early childhood education curriculum. On the contrary, we are trying to level out what is already happening today. We need to respond to this and not only in kindergarten, but certainly also in parent education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U131	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd ask you from a different angle. And I'm a long way from thinking that the digital world is only about the devil. We know that the Ministry of Education and you have also seen the transition to education in Estonian, including early childhood education. Here you opened up a little bit of how, for example, nature education is being tried to teach through digital tools or educate children. What about Estonian-language education in Russian-language kindergartens? How much has it been used and what role does it play? What does the Ministry of Education see in this area? Please open up a little bit of this corner! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U133	Thank you. According to the data, I can say, for example, that Russian children are more on screen than Estonian children. However, as regards the Early Childhood Education Act and Estonian-language education, we have set the goal there that by 2027 each group of kindergartens will have an Estonian-language teacher. We already have a program launched during the previous government, the "+1 teacher" programme, which has led many Estonian-language teachers to preschool education. This should certainly be continued so that by 2027 there will be one Estonian-language teacher in each group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U134	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U135	Yeah, thanks! Minister, thank you very much. Of course, I was pleased to hear that you are aware of and share this concern, but somehow you are extremely optimistic about the fact that all teachers and educators are as aware as you are. I believe it is still the same document that we have read. And it is clear from the curriculum that there is an opportunity to bring digital equipment to kindergarten, but there are no restrictions on how many digital tools a teacher can use. That my question is, how do you prevent teachers from making their lives more comfortable, so that most of the day, children are given the opportunity to have technology and then the teacher doesn't have to deal with them all the time, every hour. How do you prevent that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U136	Thank you. Of course, I believe in teachers' pedagogical professionalism, first. I imagine that, if, for example, the Minister of Education would say that we are going to do this, then here in Toompea, it would certainly be a demonstration by early education teachers, because educated people will understand that such over-consumption of the screen, especially at such a low age, is extremely harmful and that is why it is said in the curriculum that it must be moderate and must be strictly for pedagogical purposes, the use of digital technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U137	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! The preaching of danger to children is, I'm afraid, quite empty work. Children cannot analyze these dangers on their own, and the weather network offers them with little. Shouldn't it still be that kindergartens remain the places where children can be children, that they can play and their creativity is developed through the game, not through the dangers of the weather network? In this connection, the document contains keywords such as "equality" and "tolerance." Such doctrines are already introduced into kindergartens. How does this fit in with childhood and childhood and education and growth, according to your ministry officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U139	Thank you. I'm sure everything that goes on in kindergarten is through the game. That's not a question at all. Even if information technology tools are used, such as bug-shaped robot programming, to move from point A to point B, it is done through the game and it is certainly a very small part of the entire day of study. Kindergartens have and will be honoured by hand activities, movement, game, and, as I said, the development of Estonian culture and Estonian language and the celebration of national anniversaries. This remains extremely important and is clearly addressed by the current version of the national curriculum that has been put before you for coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U140	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U141	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, the question has been raised in the wrong direction at all. I think the Ministry of Education is doing the right thing, rather it is necessary to look at it here, as you said, that on the part of parents, it is the problem that allows children to use these smart devices. And I think it's very right that they teach in kindergartens. But my question is: Will parents also be involved to show parents how dangerous addiction is? Let's say if the kid doesn't want to eat porridge in the morning, they'll put him on YouTube to eat porridge, that's what I've seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U142	Thank you. This kindergarten and parental cooperation are certainly valued, and the national curriculum also values it very highly. In the case of schools, it is also important that the school cooperates with parents. And in kindergartens, I know that today, too, kindergartens organise various information seminars, discussion rounds on various pedagogical topics. Clever addiction is certainly one theme that fits perfectly into the form of a seminar where information is shared, since kindergarten teachers, educators, certainly have more awareness than such a regular parent has. At the same time, certainly very aware parents, who, as I said in the answer, will certainly find the possibility, in cooperation with the kindergarten, that if, for example, the parent says that he does not want the child to have any contact with digital tools at all, he will certainly be able to enter into such agreements. So cooperation with parents is very important, and I believe that kindergartens also treat themselves as such a source of information for parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U143	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U144	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have two questions, because this is the format we have, and then I'm gonna lay them out really fast. The first is that we also know, in the case of the example of the Committee on Legal Affairs, why we are terribly good at positioning this cell phone. We found two homeless people just because we're positioning a cell phone, but in this connection, we're simplifying police work. In that case, we may not have Sherlock Holmes, because they can't, let's say, use these different procedural tactics. And what if the Internet is off at all that we need. It should be the same for a child to discover the world. But the other side specifically concerns money. Have you calculated how much money could be saved if we used the Linux software created in Estonia. At this point, Microsoft will probably take most of that amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U145	Thank you. Haven't seen such calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U146	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U147	Thank you. Good minister! President-in-Office of the Council. In this curriculum, among other things, when we are talking here about the fact that we are discussing some of the issues that we need to make clear to our children what these threats are. By the way, it's also inside this curriculum that kids don't need to know if they're boys or girls anymore. However, they must be able to name their genital organs, their goal being to be aware of their physical autonomy and the dangers they face. Just as it has now turned out that this digital issue must be introduced into day-care centres in order to inform them of these dangers. I'm sorry, but it reminds me of that old Juku joke where my dad went after Juku, said look, kid, now you sit down and now I'm gonna read you all the dirty words you can't use. That's exactly the same thing, sorry that I don't really have a question, I just wanted to give you this example right here. Perhaps as a minister who still has this opportunity to change this thing in some way so that you can look at it, namely the subject of this sexuality, right, which has been introduced into it and the digital issue, that let's not talk about these dangers, let's talk about something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U148	Thank you. I understand there was no question. Was?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U149	Yeah. Well, the minister can comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U150	Thanks for the offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U151	Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Now, if you compare the previous or the current law, the primary education project, I am, of course, pleased to note that this national culture and language training, and this issue is, like, more acutely or better highlighted. Now, what's going on in this law, it's like he's dissolved in the law. But knowing that, in fact, raising our national culture and nation and, let's say, raising its spirituality is very important to our little people at all, I think it must be carried out very thoroughly. And there must also be good control behind it, because as an Eastern virumaan and its kindergartens and their kindergarten teachers, how to say, sometimes when you look at the level, you have a sad sense of how this side is taught. And the fact that 2027 are also teachers in Estonian is also great. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But here's what I'm asking: how do you see this thing actually going to work? And how can we prevent the children from taking flowers to the eternal fire on May 9th?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U153	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U154	Thank you. Yes, it is clearly stated in that curriculum that this is the foundation of kindergarten by transferring Estonian culture and language and celebrating national anniversaries. Kindergartens are the local government to hold, so this control should ideally be the local government. But I understand it doesn't work everywhere. I don't have a good answer right now. In any case, it should not be that kindergarten children are being taken to celebrate collectively on 9 May. You gotta think about that a little bit. Thank you for raising the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U155	Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I myself am the father of three children, and my children's growing season has just fallen during the mass influx of smart devices. I developed such an interesting theory from my experience and from what I saw so that in order for a child to have an interest in reading and reading habits, he should not be given these smart devices on a massive scale until it has developed. Does this theory, in your opinion, have something at the bottom or is it just my thought based on personal experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U157	Thank you. It seems to me that your children and my child are at a similar age. I, too, as a parent today, would certainly behave much more consciously and significantly more rigorously than 15 years ago, because knowledge simply did not exist. I hope that today's parents will actually act more consciously, more skillfully, in order to protect their children more from addiction. I haven't seen any concrete studies to prove the theory you described, but it makes sense. In any case, reading is very important for the development of the child and for the development of the brain. Surely a child could learn to read before using smart solutions, because in fact, reading skills are essential when using smart solutions. If a child starts using smart solutions on a massive scale before he or she can read, there is no possibility that he or she would do so in a very targeted way. That's definitely a problem. I'm sure your theory might hold a lot of water. I'm sure my good advisor Liina Lepp will be listening to our conversation right now and maybe she'll find some research on this subject and then I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U158	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned here earlier that 60% of kindergartens are at home online and now, with this bill, there is a little fear that the other 40% will then be spent in kindergartens online. But that's not what I'm talking about. You said here and you have said many times that for many things IT equipment does not have to be used in kindergarten. And yet, this bill also states where the learning and growth environment is concerned: knows the principles of digital technology and the safe use of the Internet and is able to name threats in the digital environment. In my fantasy, there's no way I can imagine how theoretically purely so that the teacher speaks in front of the group, these things can be acquired. After all, this assumes that there is a specific contact with digital or IT equipment. You can't just teach it from a story.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U160	Thank you for your question. Practically all kindergartens, through the ProgeTiigri programme themselves, have also acquired these suitable digital solutions for kindergarten. We've talked many times, mostly different robots, legorobots, other robots on the floor. On this point, however, I disagree with you that it is certainly possible to clarify these risks without using digital means. Our teachers are quite clearly very clever, inventive, and it is not space science how to integrate it into other so-called subjects, how many of these subjects are in kindergartens, but it can certainly be explained without using digital tools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U161	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U163	Let's open the negotiations. First please, Reuben Kaalep!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U164	Dear Minister, Dear Riigikogu! While listening to the Minister's answers, the impression was that there were two separate draft curricula: one is what the Minister has read, and the other is what is publicly up and accessible to everyone. If that is the case, it is, of course, very welcome, because the alternative would have been for the minister to have praised from this Riigikogu speech board how good this draft for early childhood education and all the measures there really allow and open the door to bringing digital resources to kindergartens on a massive scale. I'll take all the questions and answers, as always, point by point by point. The answer to the first question we received was that the overall aim of this curriculum, especially in terms of digital tools, is to teach children how to behave safely on the Internet and what are the dangers of digital tools and how to deal with them. Well, I'm sorry, you don't need digital tools to warn children about candy waiting online, for example. These things could all be explained without bringing digital resources to kindergarten. Fortunately, the Minister did not come up with the argument put forward by the advocates of digitalising this kindergarten, which is a good old e-governance memo, that we have such a success story in Estonia, that everything is already digital, and that is why the child must learn to deliver as early as possible in the virtual world. Such an argument is very much heard. The only thing that can be said about this is that our goal should not be for the child to have as much contact as possible with the virtual world, but for the child's spiritual development to be as good as possible. Well, why a child's little brain is addicted to technology and what problems it will cause is, of course, much longer than we can deal with here tonight. But the biggest question here is, why do we have to bring its dangers to kindergarten? Since this draft curriculum is so general and leaves so many doors open, it means that there is no limit to how much digital resources the teacher uses in kindergarten. The minister, of course, claimed that he believed in the professionalism of teachers, but until the curriculum explicitly expresses it, so far such optimistic faith does not really give confidence here. Because it can easily lead the teacher to allow the children to spend much of the day with technology because it makes the teacher more comfortable. After all, the argument has already been put forward that this is the solution to the lack of teachers that are constantly threatening us because of low wages and general misery. The second question, the awareness of kindergarten teachers. To this we received a general answer that yes, curricula deal with this area, teachers see for themselves at home what the impact of overuse of technology is. But we didn't get a specific answer that will change in the implementation of this curriculum. Now, if the result is that there will be a lot of digital tools and technology in kindergartens, how will these teachers be prepared to prevent children from being mass-sitting in kindergartens? Now question three. What should parents do who do not want a child to be exposed to technology at that age? The answer was that the kindergarten must coordinate everything with the parents... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U165	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U166	... and that can be in dialogue and found solutions. Does this mean that the parent has to go to the kindergarten first and then maybe his children will be granted an exception, so that the other children can be on screens, his child can't? How's that supposed to work? So how does this child feel when he is granted such an exception? Then the fourth question, where is this sentence from the previous curriculum that is not in this form in the new curriculum? The Minister read a sentence about a new curriculum, the beginning and the end of which are the same, and claimed that no, this principle does not disappear. But if you take these two curricula side by side, it's quite clear that the core of this sentence has disappeared from the new curriculum. And this nucleus is precisely the one that speaks of perceptions, senses and sensations. These words are not in the new curriculum. To say that the beginning and the end of the sentence are the same, it's unfortunately just demagoguery. The fifth question was one that could not be answered at all. Financial costs. We don't know what the financial cost is. Then it is only the question of who will benefit from taking digital devices to kindergarten. It seems that technology-selling and intermediary companies and, of course, companies that produce this content, or learning property, will benefit most from this bill. After all, bringing digital technology into education is one of the sources of money, and universities are examining precisely those topics where projects and funding from Europe can be obtained. Now question six. Yes, this awareness-raising of parents and kindergarten teachers is very important; the Minister confirmed what is, of course, positive. Then we could also hope that there will be some public campaigns to really raise this awareness, which would be comparable in terms of volume and measures, for example, to the vaccination campaigns we are currently in the process. And the seventh and eighth questions, I would like to address them together. Again, I took two curricula, put them side by side, in the old curriculum there are specific goals, specific sentences, they are simply excluded from the new curriculum. The Minister claimed that they were not lost because, in some very general sense, they are still inside, that the anniversaries of the Estonian people are going under, and Estonian culture is still in the new curriculum, the nature of the locality in the same way. But then there is the question of why these very important points and very important sentences are still taken out. Well, you can't talk black to white here. Both the anniversaries of the Estonian people and the best-known plants, mushrooms and animals in the home are clearly excluded from the new curriculum. I was pleased to hear that the Minister did not dare to confirm whether this curriculum would actually enter into force in September. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I agree, I think that by then the current government will have fallen, and the new government will hopefully reverse this curriculum completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U167	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U168	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Good people, who will be watching us now through YourToru or directly or anywhere! So here we are. I'd like to remember and start with the money story first. Well, the fact that it didn't come to light that how much someone was gonna win this money is one question, one good solution would, of course, be what I immediately remembered from the blow that we used to have tiny little handheld computers called iPods. And now there are iPads, which are bigger tablets, but these handheld computers were very phone-like, and for the kids it was that nobody wanted a computer, but the kids wanted a phone, so they cheated on the baby just as much, whether there was an internet or if there were other games in it. This enabled parents to call themselves and perhaps to adjust to some extent what the children saw. All right, a smart parent puts child locks on, and even smarter kids can get their child locks off. But I would remind you of the time, it may have been 2011 or where the city of Tallinn actually gave up Microsoft's software. That's what it took to get there, I might be wrong. I somehow remembered that it was 60 million kroons. So in all schools, you had to have Microsoft's software to use Word and Excel. And in Tallinn, schools moved on to the so-called freeware. It was a pretty big saving, the city of Tallinn would have done something smart to do it, okay, they made it for themselves on central television, and they were on tour shows and slipped away from somewhere. But why I'm talking about it is that at some point you took me, perhaps the year was 2006, then the people of Estonia's freeware, the Linux people, who said that we have Estonia's own property, that no one will ever hack and we will always complement it. The only logical option would have been that no matter what things we are going to use, its use is daily and widespread. If it had been taken by a single local government and it had started going through the municipalities, we wouldn't have a problem with Microsoft today and that, and we would have had new developers and everything. The same thing came about here that we want to distinguish between children who just want to play, those who just want to be lazy and those who have a little bit of smartness, who later become programmers. But it could all be done to some extent playfully and with the help of a linux. Working at the Estonian Youth Work Centre myself, I also organised a computer drawing competition and it was... or some sort of programme was the name of the programme, which the Estonians had also made. I don't know where they've gone, but if this support isn't for the state, maybe the minister could think very happyly before he accepts the offers of these good salesmen, that here we have this good device to develop Estonia's own software. The second danger I would like to talk about is the use of so-called child labour. As a member of the juvenile committee, there were very many children who simply could not fulfil their school obligations. What did it come out of? There are some games where you have to get to one level, another-third-fourth, fifth-sixth, and then somewhere on level eight, there's a tricky place where the main character of the computer game just gets out of school, but that's where you get all the way through, then the school kids figured out that if they play it for two days, they get there, and then there's an uncle: a threesome! Of course, we are willing to go for the three euros to see how I don't school here, how I can go on, but the children had sleepless nights, energy dependence and, of course, the obligation to attend school was not fulfilled. Now this is the special needs of children. We have not spoken very much here in this House that children with special needs are, in fact, obsessive, or who are always trying to be too decent. We should also treat them to some extent as a small shift, as should others who do not want to learn at all. But what's most important is that with this cleverness, we shouldn't have the child's personality, if the child wants to be lazy, then let him be lazy, at school can, kindergarten is preparation for school, not preparation for life. I'm gonna take that extra time from here, if given, I'm gonna say we're gonna take two things over. [[Director: Yes, three minutes can be obtained.]] Firstly, that our elderly people are not IT-conscious and, secondly, that young people are terribly concerned about shaping our country. Now we've given the 16-year-olds the LAV selection. At the same time, we have here the bill that was here, that under 18 nothing, as if the local government were something completely arbitrary, like spring snow about coming and melting, right? There's no control mechanism. In 2015, I looked at our election results in the Riigikogu and it turned out that in several elderly homes 90+ was all smart and participated in e-votes. But surprise-surprisingly, 152 first-selected people had also used e-votes to think, 90+ is smarter than 18-year-olds who want to have a say in society. Here are the questions to which I do not expect answers, but a good minister and waitress, that the Estonian free-ware developers are actually expecting cooperation and that if we start this cooperation from somewhere, it is no longer an upper secondary school degree, but rather it could be a kindergarten when it has already been decided that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U169	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good viewers who are watching us! The draft tabled by today's EKRE ambassadors, in my opinion, revealed two important facts. First of all, I hope that the government that is in power for the last few moments will provide incorrect information both to members of the Riigikogu and to the people. I will perhaps start again with today's Committee on European Union Affairs, where documents speak one thing and officials speak another when they introduce them, embellishing all this how happy and good the life of Estonians will be after the adoption of this legislation. That's exactly what it is today. Just as Reuben Kaalep, a good colleague, rightly mentioned here. The draft prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research is quite different from what the Minister said to us today in our honey talk. Absolutely different. The reason why we have to digitise children's education in kindergarten is to keep children away from the dangers on the Internet and to teach them to avoid them. Maybe we can take them to the same environment, show them the dangers. The same could be done with other addictive substances. Then let's give the kindergartens the cigarettes and let 'em blur as long as the face turns green. The next class is to show the dangers of alcohol, a glass of wine in front of everyone, and then let them vomit all the corners. We'll show them the dangers. The third hour is, of course, for the older group, then we'll bring pot to the table. We'll find out how bad it's gonna work. This is bullshit! I must quote the text of our inquiry. In digitalisation at such an early age, an example is the statement by Riin Seema, the docent of pedagogical counseling at Tallinn University: "It is frightening that politicians and education leaders have been blindfolding the dangers that personalised learning can bring to children. We must not ignore the fact that, according to studies evaluating play behaviour of Estonian children and young people, the problem digital behaviour of children is getting worse and the related parent and teacher education is incomplete. " It's a teacher. What do doctors say? Neuroscientist Jaan Aru has stressed: "It should not necessarily be concluded that increasing digitisation, gambling and personalisation of school education lead to even better results. It is possible that we are already close to a reasonable balance between technology and thinking. " In other words, more clearly: "More digitalisation does not make things better, but worse. " These are specialists. They're saying what they know. But, of course, not just Estonians. Internationally known pediatrician Cris Rowan has pointed out that children should be kept away from modern technology if possible until they are 12 years old because the use of technology inhibits the child's brain. Now, that's what scientists say. Stay away from our kids! Don't sit down, Minister, I'm still talking! Two suggestions: If you come to the remote, speak honestly, do not lie or speak sweet talk, and another prayer to you, stay away from our children, our little children. Digital Themes. it's too early for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U171	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Minister has asked for a final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Good heirs! First of all, if you are asking the Minister a question and you are putting eight questions and very thorough questions there, I really am very sorry that it is not possible to answer everyone very thoroughly, so I said that I am ready to send you answers in writing, but I am going to say that a child who is six to seven years old must be able to name Estonian national symbols, popular and cultural traditions and the most important cultural figures. Then a child of six to seven years must know the specific characteristics of his/her home and be able to describe the nature of his/her home, must be able to describe nature and human activities in different time cycles. They are also clearly stated in the current draft. Then I will be very clear: there will not be many digital tools. There's no way that kindergarten just puts on a screen and kids look at the screen. I don't know if you have children or if you have contact with today's early childhood education. We have highly educated teachers working in kindergartens. You don't do things like this, you can't do things like that, and when you do, you let me know, because you can't do that. It is quite clear that there is no point in spreading such stories of fear. The fifth question on cost. Yes, €31000 for teacher training, €31000 for teachers from 2021 to 2023. And more remarks. A staffed study path does not automatically mean the use of technology. For example, a staffed study course means that when a child attends a music school and, by the way, studying an instrument has a very good impact on the development of the child and on the development of the brain, as well as, for example, on the study of science. It's scientifically proven. This instrument can also be taken into account in general education schools in order to reduce the child's hourly load, as he has already studied more in the music field in music schools than in general education schools, for example. A staffed study course means that we take into account the child's interests and do not force him to do double work, for example, if he is already working in a more intensive way in some areas, whether in the field of technology, music, or sport, for example. It doesn't have to mean automatically technology. And the last point I wanted to make, first and foremost, to Mr Grünthal: I very much hope that you, too, among your constituents, will do just as passionate information on the harmfulness of digital tools, because, as I have repeatedly said, the problem is not in kindergartens, the problem is the awareness of parents, and the role of all of us is to raise this awareness, because children are not dependent on children either in kindergarten or in school environments, but they remain outside that time. And it's the responsibility of all of us adults as parents, but also as public figures, as authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U173	I will conclude on this issue. With this, we have exhausted the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U174	But now, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register in a free microphone. Please! Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U175	Ladies and gentlemen, Starting in this hall for the last few weeks, the Pro Patria Party has repeatedly raised the question of 'Objective 55', i.e. by saying 'green turn'. It is an exceptionally large material, thousands of pages, hundreds of details. And it would need a serious substantive debate. The Committee on European Union Affairs has sniffed the subject, but this debate has really been more sniffing, not a substantive debate about specific government positions. This has been exceptionally brief. On 17 December, the Fatherland Party proposed to bring this issue to the Riigikogu's plenary session for discussion. The chairman of the committee agreed in principle, but added that it has already been done, but if there is a wish, he does not mind. However, no concrete steps have been taken. Last Friday, Fatherland again proposed to the Commission a very concrete proposal, together with a discussion format, on how the debate could take place in substance. Unfortunately, our home and operating procedures set very narrow limits for a member of the Riigikogu to bring this issue to the hall and that is why we proposed it through the committee. But it seems to me that nothing will come from there again, because next Monday I hear that it is a desire to approve what the government has proposed to us. "Objective 55" has an extraordinarily large impact on the development of the country. For decades. For decades, the rails will be laid down, along which the Estonian state will actually begin to move, and later it will be extremely difficult to change it. What did we propose to the Commission, how could a substantive debate take place? Any political group in the Riigikogu would have the right to make a speech for at least 15 minutes and give a picture of what it considers to be important. Every member of the Riigikogu would have the right to ask a question to any speaker. Any member of the Riigikogu would be entitled to give a speech from this panel to express his opinion, his vision, his conviction of how to move forward. And there would be no other time constraints, and that would mean that it could be discussed either on Monday or Wednesday, where we have a long agenda. But how did we discuss it so far? We rather got the chance to draw, who can ask a question, and the political groups each were able to make a speech then. This was not a substantive debate. But I'm just marking a few keywords that just yell at the debate. The trade in CO2 has an impact on today's energy market, today's electricity price. Whether the government or whoever it is is talking about, it doesn't affect the price of our electricity directly. LULUCF's obligations to Estonia are four times greater than those imposed on others, and completely unjustified. Our forestry is subject to obligations that have not been imposed on those countries, where there is little forest, where pigs, tulips or grapes are used to growing. And the reason is that we eat a little Peter sandwich first and then each one eats his own sandwich. You can't do that. Maritime and aviation as carbon neutral, how is it going to happen? The completion of the registration of internal combustion engines in 2035 what will our transport network look like? The introduction of energy-related CO2 quotas for wood, the introduction of CO2 quotas for buildings. These are just some of the keywords that I just threw into the air here with a very brief overview. On 5 April 2017, the Decision entitled "Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' was adopted. On a number of points, the views of the European Union contradict that. How to move forward, if we avoid the debate in this House, would be my question to today's coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U176	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U177	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We know that at the moment, there has been a surge in energy prices, gas, electricity, warm, exponential growth. And with such concerns, the state must certainly intervene in the resolution of record high energy prices. Yes, we can say why people have not fixed their electricity and gas prices in order to be in a better position today. Many of us have fixed prices over the years, have not played with gas or electricity prices on the stock market. But usually a contract is made for a year, two or three. And a lot of people stopped these fixed prices last year. And at one point in November-December, if there was a desire to move forward at fixed prices, when we managed to talk at the beginning of November, the electricity price was only twice as high as the 1st of January. I stress, "only." But if you wanted a fixed price for gas, the fixed price for gas is practically as high as it is today on the stock market. Are the people of Estonia so rich today? If you look at the price of electricity on Saturday, it was 21 euros per megawatt-hour in Finland, but it was more than 140 in Estonia. Yeah, we can blame each other, but that blame doesn't mean anything. That's still the price. I have a good feeling of being in front of me today. When it is said that we actually lack capacity of 20 to 25%, it is the prices of electricity production, the capacity. We've been talking about wind farms for the last ten years, and every time we've bumped into the same subject, there's a military problem somewhere. No radar, I can't. If you had installed the radar as promised in the first half of the previous decade. Then they said the price of this radar is six to eight million. During the last government, it was agreed that new radars would come. Only the price of new radar has risen ten times. At the same time, six wind farms have not been developed in this region of Ida-Virumaa. Six wind farms with all the wishes and opinions that will be developed immediately. Brothers Scrabbles have been the brave ones who have been in the press and fought everywhere to build their own wind farms, the rest of the others have just been quietly because they have realised that arguing with some of the officials of the Ministry of Defence is pointless. Yes, this official is no longer at work, but after leaving the job, he thought in his article that some politician was also the subject of fire and tar that had not been set up in a wind farm. I'm asking today if the volumes that pay for this price increase are lost. The price of electricity in Estonia would not be in heaven if we had the capacity and the ability to produce sufficient energy. You can't rely on a solar panel and wind farms either. Because December showed very well that when you were cold... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U178	I can't. Because we have a free microphone right now, and we have five minutes in a free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U179	Okay. Yeah. Thank you. The wind parks in the cold days of December simply had no wind. Of course, there was a problem again that in November Auvere was also in the renovation. And the prices went up as high as they could ask. Finally, this Estonian person has to pay for his or her pocket and also pay for his or her entrepreneurs. If anyone says today that everything is fine, I always suggest that you wait now for the January bill and then the February bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U180	Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U181	Yeah. Thank you. And if there is no other solution, then we currently have draft 426, there are two corrections to be made...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U182	Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U183	... so that both gas and electricity prices in Estonia can be halved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U184	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U185	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who follow us through your Toru or say, the Riigikogu Information Archives! 462 was probably the number of the essay that Aivar Chef was talking about here, but he couldn't talk for a while. What I'm trying to say is, I'm going to sign everything that Heiki Hepner said here earlier. I am honoured to be a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, but we have this topic almost everywhere. Heiki Hepner is still more on top of you than I am with the financial and real world of this green outlook on life. All the suggestions we made, but it was strange that today, for example, Taavi Aas presented us with all kinds of solutions that came in there and what were in those laws and that hydrogen technology could also be developed further. After all, it is great that in some countries we already have it, we do not have it, and it turned out that why we do not have it in Estonia, it turned out that we have so little wind energy. Because of this wind power, we will not be able to use hydrogen technology. A year ago, he said that there was an extreme need for water for hydrogen technology. We actually have water, we're a sea state. We have the entire Baltic Sea here at our disposal, and I don't think it's going to pollute as badly as it's going to be when we take out the hydrogen energy. However, we have adopted the fundamentals of climate policy until 2050 on 5 April 2017 in this Chamber. And we have, perhaps next Monday at 1:30 p.m., the Committee on European Union Affairs is knocking on decisions, or ambitious targets up to 2055. This means that we actually have 28 years to go in parallel here, because we have the fundamentals of our climate policy until 2050, well, and then maybe five years is a huge anarchy, because these all ambitions should arrive at us in 2055, if the goal is 55 there. But it is not a question, but the question is that it has an extremely large impact. This has an extremely high impact. And the fact that when we're here as a very important national issue, we've generally assumed. Now that we're going to open it up every day, it's actually pretty ugly. Today we dealt with the fact that the European Commission wants to tell us which types of fuel and what we will all turn into excise goods there. Peat. Security, you son of a bitch, we got a lot. Now, peat areas have been reduced and RMK has started to expand the peat area again. But we don't want security to turn into excise goods. Wood from every position. CHP plants with more than 5 megawatts of power will all be subject to excise duty. So let's not develop and develop new technologies that are more than 5, but 4.9. So we Estonians have this weep how to get out of all these stupid things with our backs straight. The European Union was created because it is the free movement of goods and people, but now the planes that carry goods, their fuel is duty-free, but which drags people, it goes under excise duty, which means that people need to be transported more expensive than goods. The European Union is giving up people. All right, we have the workforce, so if we were to drag artificial intelligence into Estonia, for example, robots, then everything would be click OK. But if a construction company wants to send us a workforce, they could be called biological robots. Now, I refuse to be a biological robot for so long, but I am a human being, and I am fighting for the same things that have been adopted there in Europe, so that they can be understood by man, not by IO artificial intelligence, who has invented it agilely, because it is more cost-effective. If there weren't people on earth, the robots would do much better. I represent the people of the Republic of Estonia here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U186	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U187	Good manager! Colleagues! Every night we're used to talking about what tomorrow's weather's gonna be like, weather reports. But I haven't noticed yet that, with no notice, there will also be the price of electricity on the stock market for the next day. For example, tomorrow you could say that since around 3:00 a.m. is the price of 78,9, you could say that this kind of quiet weather is. But after nine o'clock, it's like a slight storm of 145.15. And so on and so forth. I think that soon and in the next decade or decade, it will become a natural part of things, with weather reports. Yeah. What's there to talk about in five minutes? Ssi is more than serious. As an old wolf, Siim Kallas shares the role of the Committee on European Union Affairs so that, just as he has said, it would be stupid to lock up with promises to Brussels. The girl Kaja, Prime Minister, is not so wise, but Papa is holding Estonia's positions to this day for more than a month. But that's it. In fact, we really should say our word here, as some of our fellow Members have said before, including the big hall that we think of all of this. It's about everything, really. Well, this is Heiki Hepner talking about forestry, not going to repeat that, agriculture, transport. Well, who the hell's gonna buy an electric car right now? But according to the law or the plans, 7,000 electric cars should come every year. Who's the fool, now? In the Committee on the Environment, we discussed today the proposals for a directive on renewable energy. That's a nice thing again. You see, 58 pages, 11 more pages and 30 more pages. Well, modest with all the 55 packages that are in the thousands, volume. It's been my nightstand ever since summer. I don't know how many more have done it. And what's allowed there is everything. At the same time, the introduction states that the proposal to amend the Renewable Energy Directive is in line with the following. The first is the emissions trading scheme. But everyone knows that this system has collapsed, that it will be discussed how it can be improved and whether it can be improved. Well, and then we will discuss in all matters what percentages and everything to turn to Brussels. Honestly, I'm not taking any chances in approving such things. But I am pleased that there are colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, even from the coalition, who feel the same way. Like Heiki Kranich. How did he say today? That the whole thing is in the slogans right now. So it's actually in the slogans, but what we're doing here with the slogans. Everything's pretty that doesn't want us to be clean and not get too hot or too cold. But it's still worth being sober, not drunk in the sense of being transferred, out of the fancy new slogans and the sudden end of the world as it rises at 1.5 degrees. So, actually, there's nothing to talk about in five minutes, but once again, the situation is extremely serious. And, in fact, the colleagues who have held it so far should also open their mouths, including the good members of our Committee on the Environment, just silently somewhere behind the screen, but it also concerns them, their constituents and everyone. So I am not going to talk for a long time, although I could talk for a very long time and should actually talk here, and not only in the Committee on European Union Affairs, which is making this assessment on behalf of Parliament, but indeed in Parliament as a whole. Because this is the time, and an extraordinary time requires extraordinary steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-17_U188	There's no more calls. The time is 6:28 p.m. and it's time to call today's session closed. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. That kind of thing. The sitting is adjourned.
