ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 5th working week Tuesday session of the VII session of the Riigikogu. But before we begin the sitting, allow me to congratulate all of us, the people of Estonia. The Olympic medal is not a daily event. So congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] Well, now for a little more busy business. Today, we are planning to address the international situation, but before that, we can pass on drafts and enquiries. Please! You don't see that wish. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U2	69 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have one item on the agenda, which is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Honourable Excellencys, who have come to hear us today! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce to you the procedure for our item on the agenda today. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for today's foreign policy discussion. First, the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimetsa will be up to 30 minutes, then the questions and answers will be up to 90 minutes. After the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is here with a speech of up to 15 minutes, and the answer to questions is up to 30 minutes. I would point out that each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs in total, i.e. one or two questions, such are the choices. Then, during the negotiations, our request is to be made to you by representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu and then by all members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak. At the end of this debate, the Riigikogu will not take a separate decision, and I will also announce to you that, at the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will extend today's sitting until two o'clock if you agree. But we'll come to that when the time is right. Okay. The Riigikogu Chair is now welcome to the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Excellencys! Good guests! George Kennan, one of the authors of the American diplomat and restraint policy, wrote in his memoirs in 1944 about the idea of a meeting with the Polish Prime Minister at the time: "Finally, the Kremlin's jealous and intolerant look only distinguishes the vassal and the enemy, and if Russia's neighbor does not want to be one, he must accept being another. " For Russian neighbours who do not belong to NATO or the European Union, this idea sounds as topical as it was 78 years ago. In recent months we have seen a large-scale concentration of Russian military preparedness on Ukraine's borders. Russian-Belarusian massive joint exercises are taking place right now, involving tens of thousands of military personnel and culminating in a few days. This is one of the threats of force, which is very much contrary to the Vienna document and other international principles. In addition to the already concentrated forces at Ukraine's borders, the Russian forces and the armed forces in Belarus will further alter the existing balance of forces in Europe, which has been militarily in favour of one side for a long time. When assessing developments in recent days, an attack on Ukraine in the near future cannot be ruled out. It also requires us to deal with threats and to stand up for Estonia and its entire democratic value area. In this situation, Estonia must be fully prepared to deal with the consequences of the crisis. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine has been brutally violated. The country's political, economic and military pressure has lasted for years and has now grown into a confrontation of the whole of Europe. We support Ukraine in implementing political, economic and defence reforms, not only in words. We deliver defence weapons, invest in cyber security and digital systems, support Ukraine's efforts diplomatically, but also through increased humanitarian and development cooperation and politically support them at NATO, the European Union, the OSCE and the UN table. We are doing all this to ensure that Ukraine is a free, sovereign and democratic European country. No country is threatening Russia's territorial integrity, but Russia has repeatedly done so with other countries. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) in the framework of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). However, the Kremlin is trying to convince the world that the West is a threat to stability and peace in Europe because it does not take Russian security into account. It is incomprehensible what security guarantees Russia requires of others at a time when it is threatening the security of its neighbours and Europe. In the geopolitical confrontation that unfolds in Europe and directly affects us, Russia wants to achieve three objectives at a time. Stop the consolidation of Ukraine's democracy and further integration into Europe, restore the spheres of influence in Europe through the Ukrainian conflict and ensure that NATO, led by the US, renounces military presence in this very Russian imaginary sphere of influence. These requests were made by the management of our neighbouring country in an ultimative form as a requirement for security guarantees. We have responded to the ultimatum as a single message that there is no trade in European security and international law and that the policy of spheres of influence has no place in the present Europe. As is unacceptable to the military threat of any country in the 22nd century. Every independent state has the undisputed right to decide its future and to make foreign and security policy choices. This is said in the Helsinki Final Act and the Paris Charter. The same is confirmed by Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which states: "The Contracting Parties may, with unanimous agreement, invite all other European countries willing to promote the principles of the Treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic region. " I stress that all NATO countries have done so voluntarily, and no non-NATO country has a say on this issue. Dear Riigikogu! The West and Estonia cannot allow strategic lethargy, confusion or flickering in a tense security policy situation. We need to take into account the ongoing and long-lasting crisis and the intensifying confrontation in which diplomacy is credible thanks to credible deterrence, not yielding. Only Western determination, including strengthening the defence capabilities of NATO's eastern wing, effective work with a sanction package and comprehensive assistance to Ukraine will help to put a stop to further escalation. Strengthening transatlantic cooperation and cohesion is an important pillar of our foreign policy. From this hall, I'm headed to Washington for a meeting with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Blinken. Here it is important to note the strengthening of bilateral relations with all the allies that we do every day, thus increasing the pull force that keeps us together. For this purpose, we have drawn up various action plans over the past year and approved in the government office, for example, the policy objectives and main activities of Estonia's United States of America and its objectives and core activities in relations with the Nordic and Baltic countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented to the Cabinet an overview of Estonia's foreign and security policy objectives in NATO and the planned activities to achieve these goals. Transatlantic relations are based on the European-North American consensus. NATO's most important value is unity, will and ability to protect each other. In the current crisis, the Alliance has demonstrated a coherent political stance and threat assessment and has decided to strengthen deterrence and protection in the southeast and east. The presence of the United Kingdom-led allies and NATO's Baltic Air Security Mission are part of this and we have increased our defence cooperation with the participating countries. We must be prepared for Moscow to test NATO's unity in one way or another. That is why we are working consistently to increase the presence of the allies in Estonia and to further strengthen the defence and political cooperation between the Baltic States. This is a presumption that the counterparty does not miscalculate the functioning of collective protection. NATO's deterrence and protection measures will be reinforced according to Russia's military positioning, and the arrival of UK additional troops in Estonia is a good example of this. A more complex and volatile security environment requires a strategic view of NATO and a response to all the challenges facing the alliance. This year will be of symbolic importance, as the June summit in Madrid is scheduled to adopt a renewed strategic concept for NATO. It must clearly reflect current threats and the Alliance must say how to resist them. It is also necessary to specify the objectives for the next decade. I would like to stress that security starts at home. In 2022, defence costs will increase to 2.3% of GDP, or EUR 748 million, and the government has decided...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U5	Madam Secretary of State, I'm interrupting for a moment. Mr. Reinsalu! Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U6	... and the government has decided to allocate an additional EUR 380 million in the coming years to a wide range of defence in the security situation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can use additional resources to improve the development of a secure link between offices and headquarters, the security of embassies working in embassies and the continuity of embassies. As the security policy crisis deepens, the government is prepared to further increase defence spending to develop the necessary capabilities. Good listeners! Estonia, like other allies, is always in favour of dialogue. Diplomacy must be given an opportunity because it is the front line of security. Of course, we support dialogue with Russia in all the forums and formats created for this purpose, also bilaterally. Diplomatic communication with neighbouring countries is necessary to seek ways of mitigating tensions and to cooperate constructively in areas where this is possible. The External Action Service has put a lot of effort into this. The constructive nature of Estonia is also reflected in the fact that we are still ready to move forward with the border agreement. This requires the political will of Russia on a previously agreed basis, which requires that the ratification process be carried out in parallel in the parliaments of both countries. The government still believes that ratification of the border treaty will help to increase our security and stability. Honourable Riigikogu! In addition to military threats, non-conventional threats have increased in Europe. Europe succeeded in holding back a hybrid attack by the Belarusian authorities, with unprecedented pressure on the European Union's external borders through the artificial generation of illegal migration flows. Estonia's contribution to managing this crisis is significant: we immediately handed a hand to Lithuania, Latvia and Poland, which further strengthened our close and trusting ties. The current security picture requires the European Union to be able to take greater responsibility for foreign and security policy. [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! In order to adapt to the changes in the security environment, the European Union is planning to adopt this year a comprehensive security initiative, a strategic compass, which should contribute to the common foreign and security policy... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! ...strengthening. This was accompanied by a joint risk assessment by the European Union for the first time last year, and Estonian experts actively contributed to shaping a common threat picture. According to Estonia, the European Union has the opportunity and obligation to support Member States' efforts to develop military capabilities, as well as to offer opportunities to increase begging against hybrid threats. This requires the strategic objectives developed jointly by the Member States and a coherent political will to achieve these objectives. In conclusion, the European Union's processes should contribute to improving Europe's operational capacity and strengthening transatlantic relations, as well as to complement NATO activities. In addition to the common foreign and security policy, we have dealt with many important areas in the European Union. I would specifically mention Estonia's active activities in building a digital union in accordance with the "Estonia 2035" action plan and foreign policy development plan of the Government of the Republic. It is in digital and cyber issues that Estonia is seen as an opinion leader. This gives us an opportunity in the European Union and also gives us the responsibility to lead the way in introducing eID and building a forward-looking data economy. I am pleased to note that last year we reached an agreement on the development of the digitalisation of the European Union in the area of justice to create e-Codex in Estonia, which extended the competence of the agency eu-LISA in Tallinn. Tallinn was also selected as the location of the regional coordination centre for the Baltic electricity system last year. At international level, we are paying great attention to the introduction and mainstreaming of the concept of reliable connectivity, so that it becomes an important direction for the work of the European Union, the OECD and transatlantic relations. The Tallinn Digital Summit held in 2021 was also important in this process. Dear Riigikogu! Just a few weeks ago, I spoke to the UN Secretary General, Guterres, about the experience of the Estonian Security Council. The campaign to reach the Security Council and the subsequent two-year membership extended our foreign and security policy reach. Estonia took maximum advantage of the opportunities offered to the elected member of the UN Security Council. Despite the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic and the growing geopolitical contradictions left a mark on practically all of Estonia's membership of the UN Security Council, we were able to achieve a considerable amount in the areas agreed before becoming a member. As a elected member of the Security Council, Estonia spoke out for European security and defended the principles of international law. We also kept the security council's attention to serious human rights violations around the world. We also worked consistently to keep the UN Security Council up-to-date and to address new areas of security policy. We also succeeded in fulfilling the role of the thematic leader of the resolutions conferring a mandate on Irini in the Mediterranean for operations in Afghanistan and the European Union. Estonia organised 19 meetings of the Security Council as a elected member of the UN Security Council and supported a number of initiatives by countries that are of the same accord with us. Estonia also presented proposals for five resolutions and led their negotiations. As a elected member of the UN Security Council, we also confirmed Estonia's image of openness and transparency. Most of the meetings of the Security Council convened by Estonia were also opened to the wider membership of the UN. Since we transferred hearings on different channels, what was transmitted there went beyond what has been the custom so far. Both the campaign and the membership of the Security Council gave the Estonian state and the Estonian External Action Service the first and important experience that can be implemented in the future in the United Nations as well as in other international organisations in defending and promoting Estonia's interests. Our influence in the world has increased in two years of the Security Council, as Estonia's international visibility has increased. We felt a particular responsibility to react forcefully when we saw action against human rights and freedoms and, of course, developments of critical importance to our own security in our immediate neighbourhood, Belarus and Ukraine. Dear Riigikogu! I would like to stress specifically that promoting human rights and democracy in the world is one of the important activities of Estonian foreign policy, because it strengthens a world order based on values on which our security depends directly. In this way, our human rights diplomacy also underpins our security policy. In May last year, I introduced the first human rights diplomacy action plan in Estonia, which sets out Estonia's foreign policy activities in the protection of human rights and the promotion of democracy. Among other things, we attach particular importance to the rights of women, girls, indigenous peoples, as well as to freedom of expression and the Internet. In the world, authoritarian regimes extend their influence and violate human rights with impunity. The COVID-19 pandemic has also allowed violations of the rights of the most vulnerable. Estonia's foreign policy activities in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the world are related to our activities at home. Despite the difficult pandemic situation, we held an international conference on media freedom in Tallinn last week, bringing together ministers, journalists and representatives of civil society from all over the world. We hope that the discussions at the conference and the promises made by countries and various parties will protect media freedom both in Estonia and in the world. According to international estimates, Estonia is ranked 15th by press freedom index and second by Internet freedom index in the world. The hands of authoritarian leaders often rise to restrict access to the Internet. Let's face it. Estonia is a member of the International Coalition for Internet Freedom, we will also increase our support this year and draw attention to these issues in our activities in international organisations. Global climate change affects everyone, and the whole world needs to work and share the burden to combat climate change. The government set out its climate diplomacy agenda last year. In the European Union's climate diplomacy, we always highlight the eastern partners, but we also act in Africa, for example, we are planning the development of green data centres with partners interested in digital cooperation. We have worked for a network of sea wind parks throughout the Baltic Sea, which would also support our energy security. Estonia sees the opportunity to play its part in ensuring the sustainable development of the Arctic. In order to shape Estonia's positions on Arctic issues, we are launching a broader agenda, which includes foreign and security policy, climate policy and research. Honourable Riigikogu! In the last year, Estonia's activity in the Asia-Pacific region has increased significantly. To increase Estonia's presence, we opened embassies in Singapore and South Korea. Last July, the first ever visit of the Japanese Foreign Minister to Estonia took place, and only a month later the President of the Republic met the Prime Minister of Japan in Tokyo. The increase in the influence of China in international relations remains a characteristic of last year. Estonia is interested in good and pragmatic bilateral relations with China, as well as between the European Union and China, but this cannot happen through the suppression of values. For example, we do not accept China's pressure on Lithuania in any way, and it needs a common European position. The objectives of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the main areas described in the foreign policy development plan require the establishment and updating of a broader social space for reflection in the design of the knowledge-based policy, which means, among other things, that universities teach and study important topics for the implementation of Estonian foreign policy. This year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will support nearly a million euros of research and analysis capacity building in Estonian universities, focusing on Asia, Russia and the Arctic. I would like to thank the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs for its good cooperation in developing the necessary research and analytical capacity in policy making. Dear listeners, One of the three pillars of the foreign policy development plan is the promotion of the external economy, which aims to increase Estonia's welfare. Standing up for the interests of entrepreneurs and boosting the Estonian economy through investment growth is one of the priorities outlined in the foreign policy development plan and the "Estonia 2035" development plan, in addition to ensuring security. In 2021, the Estonian Investment Protection Action Plan was endorsed by the Government Office, which will provide a concrete work plan for the conclusion of investment protection agreements both at EU level and bilaterally for the coming years. The implementation of the Action Plan has begun and consultations have been held with Kuwait, Kenya and South Korea as the first countries. The priority is to implement foreign representations and economic diplomacy more effectively in promoting and protecting the interests of Estonian companies and attracting foreign investment. We are working well with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Enterprise and Innovation Foundation in this regard. From 2022 there will be a joint planning and setting of targets and an analysis of results. Together, we have strengthened new embassies in Singapore and Seoul, where representatives of the foundation have started to operate under the same roof as the embassy. Cooperation has also been successful in the framework of Dubai Expo, where we have taken more than ten large business delegations, in addition to professional business missions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also plans to send additional economic officials to missions in Helsinki and Ottawa. The result is the creation of a strong team, the so-called Team Estonia, which is able to open up new opportunities for Estonian entrepreneurs in foreign markets more effectively. Our honorary consuls, who form a global network of more than 200, play an important role in economic diplomacy. In July, we will organise a conference of honorary consuls in Estonia to find additional ways to promote Estonia and Estonia's economic interests better. We are working to ensure that new economic diplomatic tools and methods can be created through the European Union's Recovery and Resistance Programme Facility. The development of Estonian business centres is planned in seven foreign countries, primarily with new embassies in Seoul and Singapore. The establishment of the Development Cooperation Centre last year will increase Estonia's capacity to participate in projects of the European Union and other international major donors, which will ensure greater visibility of Estonia and greater influence on foreign policy. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia's biggest asset is our people. In order to keep Estonia's identity strong even far from home, a global action plan for Estonia has just been completed, which the state has also started to implement with concrete actions. Society as a whole can help to make Estonians born abroad or living there for a long time feel welcome when moving to Estonia. The task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to provide both Estonian and foreign citizens with the most convenient and favourable service possible and, based on the development plan for foreign policy, we will make the consular service even more accessible. Given the dispersal of the Estonian community in the world and the limited network of foreign representations, we are only able to offer the desired services of high quality by digitising them to a large extent. Achieving this will require a joint effort by several government agencies. In 2016, an amendment to the Identity Documents Act entered into force, according to which a person may, at the request of a person, be issued a passport and an ID card by post via a secure postal service provider. Until now, this provision has not been fully implemented. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, we work towards solutions so that during 2022 Estonian citizens can receive identity documents more quickly and conveniently. Thus, an Estonian citizen from all over the world will have the opportunity to receive his passport by post. Dear Riigikogu! Last year we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the restoration of national independence. For three decades, the designers and promoters of Estonian foreign policy have been determined to ensure that our security is protected and confident that we will never be alone again. The security of Estonia and Europe as a whole is inextricably intertwined, and in the current complex security policy environment, maintaining, protecting and securing the world order based on international law and rules is also a direct duty of care of Estonia. Estonia's foreign policy is acting tirelessly to ensure and strengthen the protection of Estonia's security, economic and citizens' interests, to keep our security and unity in the West, of which we are an integral part. The key to the success of this activity lies in cross-ministerial cooperation, but even more important in cooperation between parties. Only then will we succeed and will we be able to stand up for our interests and achieve our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U7	Thank you, Madam Minister. Now we move on to the questions of the members of the Riigikogu and start Peeter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U8	Good manager! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, America, our friends, and not only say that tomorrow will be a war. I hear you're going to visit your American colleague in Washington by then. My question is why you are not going to Moscow, and my question is when was the last time you spoke to your Russian colleague. That is the question: when was the last time you spoke to your Russian colleague, not to mention the meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U9	Thank you. I understand that this issue was with a Russian colleague [on the meeting], the issue was not related to the Washington race. So I will answer that part of your reply and your question. I last spoke with my colleague, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov last spring, when we had a long conversation. We have now had political consultations with Russia, which took place in November of the year ending. So we have had constructive communication with Russia. And, of course, given the political tensions in relations between our two countries, there have been no close political contacts between our countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U10	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Yesterday, in the Riigikogu, we had a discussion with the Minister for Economic Affairs about the sanctions of Belarus, and we found that the government here has been too slow to say very slow. But it is even more regrettable that we have imposed our sanctions without involving our good southern neighbours. Now that Group 2707 is banned in Estonia, trade flows have moved to Latvia. Have you and your Latvian colleague talked about this? And what is the view of our southern neighbours in imposing common sanctions on Belarus?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U12	Thank you. Estonia, as well as Latvia, Lithuania and the European Union as a whole, have a clear view that influential sanctions are uniform sanctions for the European Union. The European Union has adopted five different packages of sanctions in recent years, and I would say that they are influential packages. Indeed, the fourth package of economic sanctions adopted during the summer and containing oil products remained out of the product or group of products you referred to. 2707. If it became apparent that the transit of this product group through Estonia is massive and is detrimental to Estonia's foreign policy reputation and interests, the government reacted very quickly and imposed a domestic sanction on this product group. However, as I said earlier, it is very important that sanctions are imposed jointly by several countries, because only in this way are they influential. It is very easy to move around Estonia. I have, of course, been in contact with my colleagues in Latvia and Lithuania. We are also working in this direction in Europe to ensure that this group of products is uniformly sanctioned by the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U13	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You briefly went over the problem of ratifying the border treaty with our eastern neighbour. This is such a serious and long dick problem, because in fact, we still have occupied areas. These have been our territories, and we are willing to give them away to the ratification of the border treaty. Now a question for you. In the case of Eastern Ukraine, which is occupied by the Russian, do you suggest that the Ukrainian make a border treaty with the Russian and embezzlement these areas to Russia? That would mean that the threat of war was immediately gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U15	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for raising this very important issue and topic. The border agreement currently referred to is a long-negotiated border agreement between Estonia and Russia and has been signed in 2014. I am convinced that a certain border agreement, a border agreement ratified by both countries, has a certain added value in guaranteeing security and security, which is why I have also proposed that this border agreement between Estonia and Russia be ratified, of course, in accordance with the agreement, in parallel with both parliaments. As regards today's Ukrainian territories, annexed areas of Ukraine, this is contrary to international law. Clearly, the force has gone into the territory of another country and it has been annexed. Of course, this violation of international law cannot be accepted, and we cannot afford to change Europe's borders by force in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U16	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U17	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The external political situation is alarming, not only in Europe, but in the wider world, and developments are taking place very quickly. One such development is that our neighbour, the Russian President, visited the Olympic Games and also met with the Chinese President in addition to attending the opening ceremony. They entered into a large-scale cooperation agreement with various estimates of nearly $120 billion [in]. At the same time, it is also known that the Russian President has given his so-called consent to the annexation of Taiwan to China. My question is this: how do you assess the impact of this cooperation agreement, which means a massive movement of oil and gas products or Russian mineral resources to China, to us, to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U18	Thank you for that question. Of course, we will closely follow developments that are taking place geopolitically and in the same way in relations between Russia and China as the two permanent members of the Security Council. However, this additional agreement, with which the countries have indeed agreed on a large number of actions to strengthen cooperation between countries, we do not see a direct and long-term impact that would change relations between China and Russia in the long term. In relations between Russia and China, we have often seen closer relations, but they have different views on a number of issues. For example, the issue of territorial integrity is a very important issue for China. There are certainly no fundamental conclusions to be drawn here, but of course these developments must be closely monitored.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U19	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U20	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Would you at this point in time explain the attitude of the partner countries towards Ukraine? That's actually a concern. From Ukraine diplomats and also investments will be removed. This is a major weakening of the country. The French go to Moscow, the Germans go to Moscow, Biden does his thing, Afghanistan remembers clearly here. The process of communication could be described as cooperation when prior agreement is reached on what to talk about with Moscow. At the moment, it seems that something will be agreed in Moscow first and then the other countries will also be informed. It is a serious concern that history is beginning to repeat itself. Can you explain what the great powers have agreed with Moscow? And why is Ukraine weakening its already weak economy and international position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U21	Thank you very much. You have put a number of important issues together on this issue, and I will try to answer all of them one by one. First of all, I would like to start by supporting Ukraine. Indeed, Ukraine now needs both political and economic support. I am very pleased to recall that the European Commission has announced a EUR 1.2 billion aid package for Ukraine, which is also urgently being pursued to support Ukraine through the economy. Estonia has taken the view, which we have also tried to promote in the European Union, that the Ukrainian market should certainly be more closely integrated into the internal market of the European Union. It also provides the legal basis for the association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. So I certainly agree with you that there are activities that can be done more. As far as embassies in Kiev are concerned, Estonia has said for its part that the Estonian embassy will continue to work until the situation allows, and we have encouraged others to do so. We have indeed seen that some embassies with consulates in Western Ukraine have taken a large part of their activities to Western Ukraine, mainly in Lviv. Here we are certainly trying to maintain a stronger common ground in the European Union, and I was pleased to see that the High Representative of the European Union, Borrell, made it clear that the European Union's representation in Kiev will continue to work. As regards common positions, the European Union's partners, both within the European Union and in NATO in particular, have agreed on very clear common messages on how to communicate with Russia. This was also demonstrated by the reply to the last letter from the Russian Foreign Minister, Lavrov. I recall that the letter arrived at all the foreign ministers of these countries one at a time, but it was jointly agreed that the response to the letter would go jointly with the European Union's partners, coordinated by NATO Member States. So it makes it very clear that allies and partners are united with Russia in their messages. With regard to various visits, high-level visits to Moscow or to Kiev, it has been a pleasure to see that many countries, the heads of state who are going to Moscow, are still going to Kiev and then to Moscow. It is, of course, very important that this dialogue is held with Moscow, but it is certainly very important that it is not done at the expense of Ukraine. And I believe that this message, which is shown by going to Kiev, has revealed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U22	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to amplify you. When you accepted the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs, you certainly knew that this was one of the key minister's positions. But next to the President and the Prime Minister, your views have been less heard. In today's security situation, however, your word has weight. I therefore wish success and courage in representing the positions of our free country. In the light of today's news, it's actually very difficult to navigate. We support Ukraine, yes, but we invite diplomats home and advise you not to travel there. We're getting deadlines for a possible military conflict. This is all very worrying. Question: What channels of information would you recommend to your people to observe in order to obtain information from the truth, perhaps to find peace and security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U24	Thank you first for the good word, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. As regards the messages where we have indeed called the people of Estonia back from Ukraine at the end of the weekend, it is very important, because our primary responsibility is, of course, to stand up for the safety and life of our people. And, of course, there is no confusion or confusion here, which is why we gave out this message very clearly. However, this does not in any way mean that relations with Ukraine have ended. Similarly, our diplomats will certainly continue their work there. That is why we also had a clear message in this travel warning that people would look and think about how essential it is for them to be in Ukraine now. If this is not necessary, then [we recommend] to come home. But other work will continue, and I myself will be going to Ukraine next week, if the situation permits. As far as media space is concerned, of course, there is now a great war on false and misleading information, which comes with this tense security situation. For my part, I can only say that I, of course, trust the Estonian media publications, trust international publications, trust the publications of countries that are in higher positions in the media freedom index. And as far as this situation is concerned, for example, with travel information, I naturally encourage you to look at all the portals of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Travel Smart portal, where we are always trying to provide information about the situation in one country or another and whether it is safe or not to travel there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U25	Annely Akkemann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your very broad presentation. You spoke for quite a while about the protection of human rights and the importance of the protection of human rights in Estonian foreign policy, including the emphasis on our neighbouring countries. The other half of human rights are human needs. In your presentation, you were less concerned with Estonia's humanitarian aid policy. And my question is whether Estonia has humanitarian policy and humanitarian programmes in our neighbouring countries to address the humanitarian problems that have grown as a result of these tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U27	Thank you for this very important question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. In addition to the human rights diplomacy agenda, Estonia also has a development aid action plan and humanitarian aid policy. It has been our long-term policy that we contribute financially to humanitarian organisations as well as trying to help with concrete projects on the ground. I understand that your question is perhaps the most motivated situation in Ukraine. In Ukraine, we have carried out a number of development aid projects as well as humanitarian aid projects. And last week, we also announced additional funding specifically for humanitarian aid in the eastern region of Ukraine, where we want to help people directly in order to be warm, and we also have projects there to promote the entrepreneurial skills of vulnerable women, so that they have no activity, given the limitations and opportunities of the situation. We are currently working on a number of such programmes in the eastern part of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U28	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your presentation and review. My question also concerns human rights, but with regard to China. How does the Chinese-Russian joint declaration, which did not mention Ukraine, affect Russia's freedom in Eastern Europe, the security of Estonia and the entire region, and future relations between Estonia and the People's Republic of China? What can we conclude from this? Is it true that, at the same meeting, Russia and China stressed that human rights must not be the basis for transnational communication? You stressed, however, that Estonia has taken the direction to expand the development of human rights diplomacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U30	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. Estonia has made its action on the protection and promotion of human rights much more systematic in its foreign policy, thanks to the human rights diplomacy action plan that I have referred to. Estonia has done these activities before. I recall that, in fact, Estonia paid attention to indigenous peoples already in 1996. Estonia has also been supporting freedom of expression and freedom of expression for many decades. These are long-term policies that we actually put together now and saw where and what we could do more effectively. As far as the human rights situation in China is concerned, Estonia has raised it in the same way in the appropriate formats as in the 3rd UN Committee, in the Human Rights Council, and I also raised it in my phone conversation with a Chinese colleague at the end of January.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U31	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U32	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Yeah, they say war knocks on the door. And you are in a very perilous situation. You're involved in two very high levels of peril here. The first is such an insane crime that you have been elected Minister of Foreign Affairs by a party convicted of a crime and prohibited by the Constitution. The second crime is that your home party has a cooperation agreement with Russia, the first point of which says that the parties will carry out consultations and exchange information on topical issues in Estonian-Russian relations as well as in the international context. That's where the questions are. Have you discussed the annulment of this agreement with your home party? The second question is, in parallel, what were your last steps in this cooperation agreement and in relations with Russia? Did Mihkelson's solo in Moscow, where he met Karassin, have anything to do with it, or is it co-ordinated with you in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U33	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. I would first and foremost start with this single Russian protocol, which has been signed by the Centre Party over ten years ago. In this regard, nothing has changed in the context of the Centre Party and the position is the same: there has never been any action around this protocol, so it is not topical to talk about this protocol either. And the historical nature of this protocol does not in any way prevent the Centre Party from implementing Estonia's foreign and security policy or leading the Republic of Estonia at all. The leader of the Estonian Central Party was the Prime Minister in two Estonian governments, where the Estonian foreign and security policy was clearly implemented, which is unique to the interests of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U34	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for this presentation. You spoke about the digital society, about its development, but unfortunately I did not hear the word 'cyber security' in the presentation. In my opinion, these are inseparable issues, especially in a situation where Russia and China are approaching and we know what hidden activities are increasingly favoured by governments in this society. My question to you comes from a European context, and certainly from cooperation with the United States [in the context]. Are cyber threats and cyber security spoken more or less in foreign policy debates? What phase are we in? And can this be a problem that we actually, to some extent, postpone and close our eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U36	Thank you, too, for this very important question and for raising the subject. Cyber security is a very important issue in the international arena and has also been a very important topic for Estonia throughout. I would first remind you here that, as a member of the Security Council of the United Nations during his Presidency last June, Estonia officially brought cyber security [the subject] to the Security Council table. Our primary objective, of course, was to raise awareness of this as a modern security threat and to point out that the Security Council should also address modern security threats, but also to raise international awareness of cyber security as a whole. It is also the fact that both natural persons and states are acting maliciously in cyberspace and that appropriate safeguards must be taken to this end. Now, coming a little closer and going more concrete, it was only a few weeks ago that we saw massive cyber attacks against Ukraine. It was clear that the European Union reacted immediately, Estonia among them, to provide support to Ukraine. Estonia is still ready to send cyber security experts to Ukraine, for example, if they want this help. This topic is absolutely topical on the table. We are also in the process of preparing for major cyber attacks in connection with the strained security situation. Of course, there is always a shortage of resources and there would certainly be more to be done in this respect, but the minimum is certainly guaranteed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U37	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U38	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your determination that the Estonian Embassy will continue its daily and dedicated work in Kiev. During my visit last week with the Chairman of the Riigikogu, I saw their commitment to work as well as very positive feedback from Ukraine on our cooperation at all levels. As Chairman of the Estonian-Ukraine Parliamentary Group, I also confirmed our willingness to actively participate in the interparliamentary cooperation of the Crimean platform. My question: are there new initiatives for development aid on your desk, apart from security and humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U39	Thank you for these important questions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Ukraine's support is really very multifaceted: it is political support, economic support, development cooperation and humanitarian aid projects. We had a total of EUR 2.4 million in development cooperation for Ukraine over the past year, and this year we plan to increase it by a million. In the case of development cooperation, it is certainly important that we continue in the normal way and that we still launch calls for proposals for the implementation of these projects. I'm sure that's what we're gonna do this year. Last year we also completed a number of programmes. For example, the joint project of the Estonian e-Governance Academy and the USID funded by the United States ended precisely to increase cyber security in the Luhansk and Donetsk region. This is one example. This is the type of projects we have done, and we will continue to do so on the basis of new projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U40	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, During the construction of Nord Stream, I remember, Estonia warned that it could also be used for political purposes. Now we see that not only against other European countries have Russian gas supplies been used for political purposes, but Estonia has also been hit and influenced by it. Prices are rising, inflation is accelerating as a result. In general, it is sad that such a thing is done for foreign policy or political purposes. If I remember correctly, about 20% of Estonian room temperature is currently produced from gas. My question to you is: does the government have a plan and what kind of plan is it to reduce Estonia's dependence and the possibility of being directly influenced by this gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U42	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for raising this important issue. The fact that gas may not be the safest source of energy is certainly clear to Estonia already through its own historical experience from the late 1990s. However, it is certainly important to point out that, despite the security policy crises in recent years, the last decade, Russia has respected gas supply agreements towards Estonia. With regard to broader policy, energy policy, of course, there are plans in the government to diversify energy sources in Estonia, in the same way increasing the share of renewable energy. These are long-term projects that have been taken up. However, if there is now a security crisis where the energy supplies to Estonia are really going to suffer, we will have alternative sources of energy, but certainly, yes, I agree, they are an additional cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U43	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for this review. In your presentation, you stressed the importance of freedom of the media and, in answering questions here, you pointed out the importance of clarity and reliability of information. As a result, I have a question for you: how do you feel about continuing the free movement of Russian propaganda channels in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U45	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for raising this important issue. Media freedom is certainly a very important issue. Everyone who has lived in occupied Estonia remembers how important this is. This question is very important to us in the Estonian Information Space, where we can see that in the Russian media space there are indeed popular television channels that provide very much misleading information about the current security crisis. From my point of view, it would certainly be essential for Estonia to be able to offer aside Russian-language information channels that are so interesting and attractive that they would attract the attention of our Russian-speaking population. There have been good examples of this. For example, when the COVID-19 crisis began, when information about the virus was shared in these information channels and about the restrictions in force in Estonia at the time, the popularity of these Russian-speaking channels in Estonia increased. So I think it is essential to pay attention to the quality of content we offer in these channels. And then, I believe, the audience and audience in these media will certainly [increase], and we should not worry that there are also channels that knowingly provide misleading information and propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U46	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U47	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You pointed out in your presentation that Madrid is planning to adopt a renewed strategic concept for NATO. Can you tell me if NATO enlargement can also fit below, for example, towards Finland and Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U48	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for putting up this subject. First of all, I will briefly mention the strategic concept that we have long wanted to renew. The security environment in Europe has changed so much that the last moment is to adopt the renewed concept. And it would certainly be very important for us that the new concept clearly states the current security challenges and also offers NATO solutions in the form of defence and deterrence measures. Estonia has always been a supporter of NATO's enlargement policy. And it is indeed good that, at the Bucharest Summit, for example, NATO allies clearly said that NATO's doors were open, and also emphasised open doors, specifically towards Georgia and Ukraine. Estonia also supports inviting partners to the Madrid Summit and repeating these messages again. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, of course, NATO's doors will be open to them too if they show this wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U49	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm kind of reminiscing about history. When the border agreement was signed in Moscow on 18 May 2005, it had to be ratified in Parliament, and Parliament added a preamble to it, where Tartu peace was mentioned. It was declared that the border treaty will not affect the rest of the Tartu Peace Treaty. Then the Kremlin gave up the border agreement at all. Therefore, it is not the new border treaty that matters to the Kremlin and the remaining areas occupied by it that remain in Russia, but the question of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the legal continuity of Estonia. Okay. And now I have two questions. Does the acceptance of such a creative border agreement under Russian conditions not jeopardise our legal continuity? Secondly, does the conclusion of a creative border agreement in a situation where Russia's aggression has increased not now have the effect of betraying Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U51	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for remembering this important subject and stopping on it. First of all, as regards the border agreement and the ratification of the border agreement, I am saying what I have already said, that it would be very important that this ratification process be completed in parallel in both Parliaments, and that hole at our borders would be sewn together and that we would have a complete border that is protected in all ways by international law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U52	Kalle Grünthal, please! Yeah. Excuse me, Mr. Grünthal! I apologize for a moment, Madam Secretary of State, but she didn't answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U53	As far as Ukraine is concerned now, here, in turn, I recall the history that we saw the war in Georgia in 2008, Ukraine in 2014. Today we are in 2022 and we see that the situation in Europe's security has not improved. The relations between Estonia and Russia have not improved. In this context, better times, I believe, there is no point in waiting here, but in closing the actions under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U54	Now, it's Kalle Grünthal's turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U55	Thank you! Honourable waitress! There is such a globalist world order movement as Great Reset, where nation states have no place and decisions in the world, people are closely connected to technology and their activities can be easily controlled and directed, only so-called green energy is used, and all people are connected to a global carbon tax credit system. How can you stand as a minister for the interests of Estonia as a nation state when you carried anti-ethnic symbolism at a government press conference, thus showing your true ideological background?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U56	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. I admit that this background does not make any sense to me, but I can assure you that I am fully committed to implementing the foreign and security policy of the Estonian nation state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U57	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your speech that the rights of indigenous peoples are very important to Estonia. One of the most difficult situations and most repressed indigenous peoples is our relatives in Russia and the other indigenous peoples in Russia. Some of them are numerous and have their republics in Russia. Others have a powerful history, but they are virtually in danger of destruction, as are Votians and Insurers living along our borders, who, among other things, live in these areas that are to be renounced to Russia by the border treaty. Why have you not heard strong statements at international level concerning the situation of indigenous peoples in Russia, the repression of the government against them, the obstruction of language learning, the suppression of protests and so on? Why don't you stand up for the indigenous peoples of Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U59	Thank you for raising these important issues and for this review. The situation of indigenous peoples in several places is very regrettable in Estonia's view and Estonia has dealt with [this topic]. For example, Estonia has actively supported them in the Forum of Indigenous Peoples, which is the corresponding body at the UN. Estonia wished to organise an assembly of indigenous peoples last summer, which unfortunately did not come... Sorry, Estonia organized a global assembly of Finno-Ugric peoples last year... I don't remember the right word, I'm sorry. [[They say something in the hall.]] Thank you. ... to Congress, to which we very regrettably had to acknowledge the presence of delegations from Russia because they were prevented. Estonia's position on these issues is, of course, clear: indigenous peoples must be supported, as must Finno-Ugric peoples, so that they can teach in their own language and also cultivate their own culture. Estonia has paid attention to these issues in the UN.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U60	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary of State! You mentioned the world order and diplomacy based on human rights and values on several occasions in your presentation. China, known to be a Communist dictatorship, has no contact with human rights at all. One of our neighbours, Lithuania, is under the Chinese trade embargo. Regrettably, the European Union has done nothing to protect one of its Member States. My question is whether Estonia has made any efforts to help Lithuania, and whether the European Union has any more common Chinese policy in a situation where Germany is working equally with both Russia and Communist China.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U62	Thank you for raising this important issue. First of all, I say that Estonia has repeatedly expressed solidarity with Lithuania, as it has also made it clear that it is unacceptable to put such political and economic pressure on one country. These discussions have also been at European level; Estonia has also supported Lithuania on these issues at European level in various working groups of the European Union. I have also done so for my part in the Foreign Affairs Council. As far as relations between the European Union and China are concerned more broadly, we certainly support the fact that we have a format of 27 + 1 of the European Union with China, or a format of cooperation, based on common values. Similarly, we support the European Commission to be active in mitigating pressure on one of the Member States of the European Union. As far as I know, the Commission has taken appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U63	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You spoke at the start of your speech about the most complicated and serious foreign policy situation, which of course concerns Ukraine. And here I read a sentence: 'According to the developments of the last days, an attack on Ukraine in the near future cannot be ruled out. " Well, there are a lot of media outlets talking about this, and this stress and frustration and concern for Ukraine, and there are very, very many people about the future. You've been a professional diplomat before you joined the Foreign Minister's office. Could you give some kind of assessment as to whether diplomacy still has a chance of avoiding such a terrible situation that war will begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U65	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. Indeed, it is very regrettable that we in Europe have precisely such developments in the 21st century that we in the Riigikogu today need to consider at length and thoroughly how serious this security situation is, how serious the risk of a military attack in Europe is. After this unfortunate information came out at the end of last week that the likelihood of escalation of the military conflict is high, of course diplomatic channels were actively put into work. Several countries were directly in contact with Russian leaders in order to prevent this military conflict again. Diplomatic efforts will continue until the last moments. To be honest, I still want to hope that they will bear fruit. Because it is very clear that Russia will also understand what will follow when this military attack comes. I therefore stress once again, as I have pointed out in my speech, that this deterrence and protection is a very important aspect, a deterrent also in the form of a package of sanctions, which both the European Union and the United States have spoken out in coordination with the others who are sympathetic. This deterrence is important, it supports diplomacy to achieve peaceful goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U66	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U67	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, let me wish you the strength of the work you are doing in this exceptionally difficult foreign policy situation. But my question concerns gas dependence. For years, Estonia has stood for the European Union's gas dependency to be reduced, at foreign policy level. This requires that Estonia itself should do everything at national level to reduce gas dependency. In this regard, the last decisions of the government concerning the energy crisis are strange to me. Perhaps the chairman of your own party, the Speaker of the Riigikogu, was fighting the loudest for these measures, the result of which is that the state is going to make a significant contribution to help those people who heat their homes with gas, but eight times less careful to help those who buy electricity from Nord Pool. And the second part of this package, which later came to the aid of gas, gas-fired to businesses that satisfy their energy needs, sends a very strange signal in this situation. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, did you draw attention to this in government discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U68	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. As regards energy security... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! As far as energy security is concerned, of course, this is also an important issue from a foreign and security policy point of view. [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! However, how to compensate people for energy consumption in order to get warm is a socio-economic issue where, of course, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have not intervened from this perspective. But rather it is important to ensure... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! Can you get me some water?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U69	Yeah, we can get you some more water right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U70	Thank you. [[Drinks water.]] I'm sorry! As far as the payment of national benefits is concerned, it is certainly important to ensure a socio-economic aspect and to ensure that aid reaches the people who need it more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U71	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U72	Thank you. Just as only one minister cannot do regional policy, just like I think, can motivate gas consumption in many different ways. But thank you for your speech. And I really liked the question of Urve Tiidus as to whether diplomacy still has a chance. I would now ask, looking back, looking back at the last half year or year, both the diplomatic effort of Estonia and the diplomatic effort of the other Baltic States and Poland. How would you describe the change that has taken place in the perception of Western European countries and allies: how the threat from Russia is seen, including how important it is to reduce gas dependence, to what extent it has changed how security risks are assessed, if they are prepared to respond to them, for example, in the form of joint sanctions or also in the form of military assistance, it is to Ukraine or anyone else? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U73	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. In this way, it can be said, with a single brush stroke, that this understanding has grown considerably in Europe, not only in the last year, but in recent years. At the moment, we see that there was also a very clear common position at the table of the December Council, where the Heads of State, Government and Heads of State of the European Union already clearly agreed that, if Russia were to escalate, heavy sanctions would be adopted. This actually showed that a common understanding existed already in December at the level of the Heads of State or Government of Europe. At the same time, we also see that not everything is quite uniform. I myself, from my own conversations with colleagues, with colleagues in Europe, can say that many have said that we only now understand how close you are to Russia. For my part, I would certainly like to bring or invite more of my colleagues here, not only to visit to explain our views, but on the contrary, that more and more allies and partners would come to Estonia, to visit Estonia. And not only would we see our good digital display and go to e-showroom, but also have a clear understanding of what it means to live in Russia's border area. This understanding must certainly continue to be clarified, and that is what all Estonian diplomats will, of course, do in their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U74	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U75	Thank you. The conclusion of a new border agreement at all is directly contrary to the interests of the Estonian state and the people and, according to the criminal code, even equivalent to treason. But you said in your speech that it was as if it would give us some additional security guarantees. Such statements and your continued desire are astounding, especially in today's security situation. The Crimean territories and the areas of Donbass in Ukraine are, in fact, equally occupied and annexed, for which you stand. And you claim that this [Estonian-Russian border] agreement would bring any added value. Ukraine had a Budapest Memorandum, which included a border agreement with which Russia promised them territorial integrity and so on. It doesn't cost anything. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And now you're saying it's like this paper is giving us some kind of extra guarantees. How do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U76	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to remind you that this is not a new contract. The agreement has been signed by Foreign Ministers in 2014. We are not talking about a new treaty, we are talking about this concrete document, which has already been signed, but which has not been ratified. I therefore simply wish to maintain a clear understanding that we are not talking about a new treaty. [[Henn Põllamaas speaks from place.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U77	Mr. Pier! Mr. Pier, you've already had your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U78	I also agree that you know, but I wouldn't want that wrong idea to sound in this room. In this I agree with you on the demand for an obligation to respect international law. In this respect, Estonia and all the other countries of the same mind must continue to insist that international law be respected, and if not respected, the consequences will follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U79	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U80	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I have three questions for you. First of all, you mentioned earlier in your speech that you had a phone call with the Chinese Foreign Minister on human rights. You raised the subject in that speech. It would be interesting to hear what answer you received and whether you were satisfied with that answer. The second issue, the external economic relations towards Asia, you mentioned Singapore, South Korea, you mentioned the prospects there. I will see if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees the potential and perspective of developing external economic relations with, for example, Taiwan. And third, I'd like to find out what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is up to with 17 + 1 format, now I think it's 16 + 1. How is this planned to proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U81	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these big questions on a very important subject. First of all, in the order you asked the questions. I talked to my Chinese colleague mainly because we had been members of the Security Council for two years. We discussed a number of security issues, bilateral relations and, among them, the issue of human rights. China certainly knows very well what Estonia's views on this matter are, and there were no new breakthroughs on this issue, of course. I didn't expect it either. However, as far as the other issues raised by you are concerned, Estonia is communicating with Taiwan within the framework of a Chinese policy. We have economic and cultural contacts, we recognise their driving licences, and this communication takes place in a way that is of mutual interest. It is not possible to give any further impetus directly by the state here, as we do in other matters. As regards Estonia's participation in the 16+1 format of cooperation, after last year's government decided to reduce or lower the level of participation, I, as Prime Minister, took part in this summit. This was a clear signal that we are not satisfied with the political side of this cooperation format, because it was originally a form of economic cooperation and as such we will certainly see it from Estonia. We are now a member of this format, this is one foreign policy tool, and how we go about it, that is what we decide according to needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U82	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I wish you strength, too. My question is, do you have an overview and can you open up to us how many Estonian citizens there are in Ukraine, people who could be in great danger if the military situation were to start there. And what plan is it to help them when this situation begins?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U84	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The first answer is yes, we have a certain overview, we have an overview of the people who have made themselves known. After we made the first travel warning on Friday, dozens and dozens of people also registered their presence on the weekend. So as of yesterday, we had about 1600 Estonian citizens and non-permanent citizens together in Ukraine. It is certainly important for us to be able to help them, it is the duty of our country, and therefore, because we foresee that, in a possible worst-case scenario, it would be very difficult to provide assistance, we recommend that we consider very seriously how important it is to be present in Ukraine and, if possible, return home already, already now. For example, as of today, Air Baltic has also included airlines in the direction of Kiev-Riga in order to meet the increased demand. So I would definitely advise people to consider this very seriously and return home. Of course, if people stay there, we will act according to the circumstances. We have definitely asked people to register on the Trip Smart portal. This gives us the opportunity to send either SMS messages or other messages by the Estonian state if the situation changes, deteriorates, or other instructions. And, of course, we also have 24/7 consular support lines open to advise people in distress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U85	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you. I have received answers to all my prepared questions. But I'm gonna ask my ten-year-old son a question. Namely, he came home from school last week and announced that Mommy, did you know that World War III was about to begin? Everyone at school says this happens. Of course, I did a really scared face, told you where you took it. No, it won't get that bad. And then he asked me, and now I'm asking you, what can we do to make sure that this terrible thing doesn't really happen? What can the people of Estonia do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U87	Thank you for this important question and also for the corner of the question. It is certainly very important that we continue our daily life in Estonia in the way we are used to doing it in our democratic and free country. And the same peace, of course, must also be passed on to our children and all our loved ones. At this point, it is very important to point out that today the immediate threat to the security of the Estonian state has not increased, i.e. we do not risk our security. We are preparing to implement our defence and deterrence policies in order to prevent future risks. Of course, if the situation in Ukraine were to deteriorate, this would be a change in the security situation for the whole of Europe, but nevertheless we do not see an immediate security risk for Estonia today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U88	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I wanted to ask you how you are satisfied with the cooperation of Estonian state institutions. When we look at this issue, the transit of Belarusian oil products through Estonia, the impression was that the government began to make decisions after the public media wrote about it. Should it not be the case that, despite the fact that there is no direct embargo today, the authorities communicate and give this information to the various ministries on sensitive issues, so that we do not have to make any decisions and impose any restrictions through media input?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U90	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. It is certainly important here to bear in mind that, if we impose sanctions at European level, there is such an inspection mechanism, but all these processes are indeed more time-consuming than what we saw here at the beginning of the year was now required by this situation. And I would say that cooperation between institutions is good and works on the scale that has been agreed. If there are new situations, maybe some things will get overlooked. I believe that this was a very good lesson for all institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U91	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! 14.17.17. On June 1940, when the Soviet Union occupied Estonia, it was known that it broke three treaties at once, the Tartu Peace Treaty, the non-aggression Treaty and the Treaty of Bases. After the Soviet Union broke down, Russia had two paths: either to continue the practice of the Soviet Union or to start respecting international agreements. In 1994, Russia was one of three countries alongside the United States and Great Britain, which guaranteed the territorial integrity of Ukraine after Ukraine surrendered its nuclear weapons to Russia. And the life span of this contract was exactly 20 years. I ask: is there any guarantee in this context, or would I not say a guarantee, the slightest hope that, if we conclude this border agreement, Russia will respect it in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U93	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for raising this question. Here, I think it is essential to remember that Estonia is a Member State of the European Union and NATO since 2004. In the nineties, Estonia realized that the only way to guarantee Estonia's independence and democratic rule of law was to join NATO and the European Union. These are, in fact, the primary guarantors of confidence for us in guaranteeing our security. However, it is certainly important that we have ratified the border treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U94	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to thank you for this slim and mild but very informative presentation. My question is as follows. We all know that Russia, or Putin's strategy and tactics, is always to negotiate also with individual countries, which also concerns the countries of the European Union. Can we today be sure of what the leaders of the countries of the European Union have said: yes, we are united and we condemn the war against Ukraine and so on, or do the leaders of the European Union also have some sort of doubt in their minds that someone can, for example, support the escalation of Russia to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U96	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. Here I can say that we have been united in the European Union. This is also illustrated by the joint decisions taken both by the European Council and this year by the Foreign Ministers of the European Union, and in NATO, all these decisions and actions are to act together on a solid basis. Of course, we are seeing discussions, of course we are also seeing domestic political debates in one Member State or another, which may give the impression that things are not the case. But all these decisions at the same table actually confirm that we are now united.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U97	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your answer to my previous question, you could only mention the UN Advisory Council for Indigenous Peoples and the World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples as activities where Estonia has stood up for the indigenous peoples of Russia. But my question concerned why it was not possible to hear from you or Estonian foreign representatives specific views on issues such as the restriction of education in their own language in Russia, the imprisonment of indigenous activists, or the destruction of Insur and Votian villages in the construction of the port of Laugasuu. These are no less important issues than, for example, the fate of Alexei Navalny, where Estonia has been embellished, and protests in Udmurtia and Bashkia are no less important than protests in the centre of Moscow. Why has Estonia not spoken on these issues as the only country in the world that can do so? If we don't, no one will. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why haven't we spoken?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U99	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for addressing this issue again. Of course, it is regrettable that we have to talk about such human rights violations, but when it comes to drawing attention to the human rights situation in another country, Estonia usually does so in the formats prescribed for this purpose, for example, the Human Rights Council, the Third Committee of the United Nations. Estonia is re-elected as a member of the UN Human Rights Council in order to play a more active role in these matters. Similarly, Estonia donates to those funds that deal with the rights of indigenous peoples and help to increase their well-being. And, of course, that question is under observation. I will certainly also take the criticism you have made on this particular issue [in the account] and let us see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U100	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U101	Thank you. In the situation where we stand for the territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine, your view is that we should give Russia a territorial gift, voluntarily and free of charge, to the annexed and occupied areas of Russia, literally groveling, two-faced and submissive. You argued that the ratified border agreement would give us some sort of additional guarantee of security. Georgia and Ukraine also had border agreements. So this shows that there is no basis for this claim. But please fill in this statement. On the previous question, you did not answer me what additional guarantees [this border agreement] should provide for our security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U102	Thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to stress that the additional guarantees for Estonia are definitely Estonia's membership of NATO, Estonia's membership of the European Union. Unfortunately, Ukraine and Georgia did not have these additional guarantees at the moment when their countries would have needed them in the same way. As regards the border agreement between Estonia and Russia, it has been negotiated, it has been agreed and it has been signed by foreign ministers. I mean... [[You're shouting from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U103	Mr. Pier! Mr. Pier, you've already asked, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U104	... also that we cannot bring these parallels to such a situation as if we had taken the land today. Certainly, a secure border agreement is an additional guarantee in terms of international law, and it is appropriate that this border agreement has been ratified between two countries and this process has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U105	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, I wish you strength in an internationally very difficult situation. Clearly, if it were to be a war, millions of war refugees would move from Ukraine. Well, they're going to Poland at first speed, and they're going to Poland, and they're going to move on from there. The Government of the Republic has said that Estonia is only ready to accept up to 2,000 war refugees. But is the government also ready to come to Estonia with a significantly larger number of war refugees, especially when Poland asks for help in the redistribution of war refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U107	Thank you for the important issues directly linked to the current security crisis in Europe. Indeed, Estonia has the ability to receive 2000 refugees orientally, if the situation so requires. However, we are certainly prepared to support Poland in launching both the European Union and NATO's population protection programmes in order to apply for relocation in Europe if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U109	Good President and honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs. I read your speech from 16 February 2021. You spoke about how Estonia is leading the peace process in Afghanistan. But in this speech, you didn't talk about Afghanistan at all. How do you appreciate that? Is this a failure of Estonian foreign policy when in August the Taliban entered Kabul and President Ghani fled the country with a helicopter full of dollars and our president was the last head of state to go there in April? How do you appreciate that? I'm not talking about Mali's mission right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U110	Thank you. Estonia was indeed one of the allies who contributed to peace and security in the Afghanistan mission for several decades. In my speech last year, however, I referred primarily to Estonia's activities as a member of the UN Security Council, where Estonia, along with Norway, was the theme holder for the Afghan file. And that means that Estonian and Norwegian diplomats together kept an eye on developments in Afghanistan and prepared documents for the UN Security Council, which made the relevant decisions. The last such effort for Estonia took place last September when the UNAMA mission was extended for six months. It was rather a job win for Estonian diplomacy that, in this very difficult political situation, which was last August and September in Afghanistan, nevertheless 15 members of the UN Security Council were able to agree to extend the mandate under certain conditions. These conditions were, for example, that the UN Secretary-General should report every two months on the situation in Afghanistan, and also that this mandate was agreed for only six months, not a year, as usual. When we talk about the situation in Afghanistan in the context of my speech last year, there is no harm to Estonian diplomacy. On the contrary, at a very critical time, we dealt with a very important file in the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U111	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! You gave me an answer that wasn't an answer. In 2005, the security situation was quite different. Then we tried to agree with Russia in good faith and sincere hope. The intervening events, or the war in Georgia, the war in Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and the violation of the same Budapest Treaty, have shown that Russia is continuing on the course of the Soviet Union, which I have mentioned as an example. And now the context is completely different. I wanted an answer to what would be in the current context, in the security context in which we live today, in the guarantee or even in the hope that Russia could ever abide by this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U113	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I would divide your question into two parts. The first is that it does not make sense, in my opinion, to link one agreement to ratification with day-to-day political events. In relations between Estonia and Russia, when we look back in history, we do not actually see very good times and the events you have referred to illustrate how the situation has become tense. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to ratify the agreement that has been drawn up and agreed upon. As far as guarantees are concerned, our security guarantees are clearly our membership of NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U114	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U115	Thank you very much. It is absolutely amazing, honourable waitress, that, in a situation where Russia is acting as a fascist state, still occupying Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, even our country, Estonia, you still have a positive view of concluding a fundamentally uncertain and meaningless new border agreement. It's absolutely amazing. But my question is why don't you just call off the signature of the border agreement that's been signed. And the second question: did Mihkelson coordinate his meeting with your office, the State Department?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U116	Thank you for these questions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Here I would say that I have a constructive view of the border agreement, which would make sense for the Estonian state to ratify this border agreement. This is not a new agreement, but it has already been signed in 2014. Since this ratification process is a parliamentary working format, it is appropriate that contacts be established between parliaments so that this parallel ratification process can move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U117	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'm still coming back to this border agreement. It was ratified in 2014, but it started working much, much earlier. I was at the border guard's office as chief of staff at the time, and I was there myself. At this time, we were accused of guarding the control line, but we do not have the right to guard the control line, but we must have a border. And in order to create this border, how to say, a treaty is needed. Today we have worked very well on the control line, the Police and Border Guard Department is working. Why, however, do we need to ratify it or continue with this Treaty, because I see no benefit at all? Do you really see the benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U119	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. I repeat my earlier point that yes, I see clear benefits in ratifying the border treaty. This will create legal clarity around our borders and the ongoing process will be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U120	Good Minister, the questions of members of the Riigikogu have run out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U121	Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U122	We will now proceed with the presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who has 15 minutes to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U123	All right. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Guests! In my speech today, I will focus on the most important and topical. This is our security, the consensus of our allied space and its protection through Estonia's foreign policy activities, including through parliamentary diplomacy. When I was in Moscow a few days ago, I found time and opportunity and took flowers to the site of the murder of one of the most famous democrats in modern Russia, Boris Nemtsov, near the Kremlin, on the Moskvoretski Bridge. Boris was a good friend of mine with whom it was always exciting to discuss the present and future of Russia. He is currently in great need of Russia. Authorities are doing everything they can to erase Nemtsov from the memory of Russians, because there can be no freedom of expression for citizens in a country that is prone to totalitarianism, nor can there be any dispute over alternative ways of development. In Russia, a frightening enemy has been created over decades from democratic Western countries, as if trying to gain access to his wealth and destroy a thousand-year-old civilization. People have been tried to make it clear from the low ground that the United States and NATO are trying to surround Russia and destroy its statehood. Millions have been manipulated, both at home and across borders, to justify their aggressive foreign policy towards the democratic Western world. But let us think for a moment about the difference between NATO enlargement and Russia enlargement. If the first takes place on a voluntary basis and with the consent of the members for the protection of democratic states, then in the second case, the authoritarian nuclear state seeks to extend its limits of influence by brutal force in violation of international law or by its own will. Russia has not provoked NATO enlargement, which has created a peaceful and stable neighbourhood on its borders, but has done so in the pain of losing the totalitarian empire and in the success of former vassals in creating a democratic and free society. It is, however, an existential threat to the rule of self - control in Russia. The parallels with history are thought-provoking. As in the 1930s, Russia has today realised that Europe is in a favourable position to change its status quo. In addition to the restoration of the empire, the totalitarian Russia is eager to impose its rules on the democratic west, to establish new zones of influence and to marginalise the role of the United States of America in world politics. At least they're ready to go to the nuke in words. In recent times, Russia has been repeatedly asked why it is now that the tensions have been screwed up. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said at the press conference at the beginning of the year that it is all the fault of the West, which has set a course for the destruction of the architecture of international relations based on the UN Charter, who does not care about Russia's security concerns or its own promises. Lavrov repeated the Kremlin narrative about how NATO has brokenly expanded and how Ukraine's "turn of state" is threatening Russia's security. Of course, there is no mention of Russia's own aggressiveness, of changing borders by force, or of national decoding democratic institutions and the destruction of civil society, which has put pressure on Russia's democratic neighbouring countries to seek security guarantees, especially when they belong to NATO. Those who have seen for themselves the rolling stock of the Russian chariot may well sense that good words alone are not enough to stop it. As a young journalist, I experienced the first war in Chechnya, reflecting what the Russian leadership is capable of. Thousands of citizens of their own country died in Grozny's carpet bombings. For what? But to make sure that the empire doesn't fall apart and the free will of the people doesn't become the norm. Just as then the Chechens helped to destroy the massive dehumanization of the entire nation, so Russia's propaganda is still trying to undo Ukraine's statehood and nation. The craving for the Kremlin has grown in 30 years and has not been able to stop diplomacy based on the good will of the Western countries and the desire for peaceful coexistence. NATO enlargement has been directed not at Russia but at threatening and using it with total force. Russian society has remained hostage to its own history and has not been able, for objective and subjective reasons, to rid itself of the repressive grip of authoritarian power with deep traditions. Since the Kremlin's desire to destroy democratic Ukraine is only one part of the attempt to rock the security architecture of Europe, it makes it particularly difficult to find any sustainable modus vivendi in relations in the Russian-West. It seems that the Russian leadership is ready to escalate relations to the maximum. For this purpose, direct threat of war, use of force and the admission of rhetoric, which is publicly depreciating in diplomacy, will be used. What can I do? In fact, the Russian leadership knows very well that NATO is not threatening it. Just as no democratic neighbouring country threatens the security or territorial integrity of Russia. If Moscow has the slightest will to step off the edge of the abyss, it's the last moment. Stopping the threat of force and ending the aggression against Ukraine creates a prerequisite for substantive dialogue. The alternative road, however, leads to a deepening of dangerous confrontation and the fall of a new iron curtain. Moscow hopes that by extortion and maximisation of the threat of war, key Western states will be forced to compromise. So far, this has not worked, even though Russia has achieved some tactical victories. Moscow has managed to get the West to discuss the ultimatums presented by the Kremlin and to look for different ad hoc options to alleviate tensions, but the consensus of the allies has so far endured well the pressure from Russia. One very important element of Russia's aggression has been the massive imposition of its narrative. Its focus is on legitimate security interests, which basically means an ultimative demand to turn back time not only to 1997, when the basic act of NATO-Russian relations was concluded, but to the world of Tehran-Jalta, where the great powers decided to divide Europe between a democratic and dictatorial world. A clear and fundamental response must be given to Russia's attempts to destroy and demolish the security system that has operated for decades in a free and democratic Europe. It requires the most innocent step first. We're finally gonna have to start calling things by their real names. French security analyst Nicolas Tenzer completes his excellent analysis of the failure of Western policy towards Ukraine with words that are fully applicable when speaking about Western Russian policy. I quote: "The Western leaders must leave the world of illusions. From Plato, we know that leaving the cave is risky. But even more important are the dangers of ignoring the truth." It must be made clear to Moscow in a clear way that this kind of extortion tactic, which belongs to the prison world, which Russia is currently doing as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, is deeply disruptive to international security and, as a whole, undermines the principles of the UN Charter. No country, including authoritarian Russia, can have the right to hegemony in Europe or the right of veto in shaping our security. Europe's security architecture has endured well in time and there is no substantive reason to change it. The fact that Russia has moved away from the path of democratic development towards totalitarianism cannot be a reason to destroy the self-defense of the free world. While the most influential members of the current Russian leadership, former FSB director Nikolai Patrušev, describes the situation in relations with the West as a continuation of the Cold War, the West must also stop the illusionary hope of relaxing tensions with beautiful words and constant concessions, but also resist Russia with a well-considered and multi-layered strategy. The strategy could be based on the model presented by Pierre Harmel, then Belgian Foreign Minister, in NATO decades ago: "As much credible deterrence through political and military strength and unity as necessary and as much readiness for dialogue as possible." The unity of the Western countries, especially NATO, is particularly important in the current situation. The NATO-Russian Council meeting showed that there is consensus among all 30 allies. If Russia was hoping to find cracks there, then it must have been disappointed. However, the real test of unity is evident in its actions: its willingness to oppose Russia's aggression, its determination to defend its allies and to support democratic partners such as Ukraine. The elements of the new Russia strategy should be formulated by the European Union and NATO in the documents currently being prepared ("Strategic compass" and "Strategic Concept") in order to focus on tactical steps. Russia actually appreciates the collective western military-political deterrent force very highly, which is why capitals should also be confident and convincing in explaining their strategic objectives to Russia. Russia needs to know where the red lines run and what the cost of crossing them is. Unfortunately, these lines have already been overcome because the occupation of the territory of an independent state (Georgia, Ukraine) and illegal annexation (the Crimean Peninsula) are a gross violation of international norms, law and agreements, such as the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding, to which countries that care about the rules cannot and must not respond indifferently. In order to influence Russia to end its aggression, the West must act now and now. In particular, this concerns the promotion of deterrence on the eastern wing of NATO, including in the Baltic States. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland should urgently deepen defence cooperation within NATO and work towards removing legal barriers to military mobility. The rapid introduction of U.S. defence aid and the increase in the further financing of the Baltic Defence Initiative to at least 200 million dollars per year are also crucial. Providing arms assistance to Ukraine is not an escalation of events, but a barrier. By surrendering Crimea or blocking the direction of Ukraine-NATO, as some analysts suggest, does not prevent the expansion of war. Ukraine must be shown today, not the door, but the path to becoming a member of the European Union and NATO. Since democracy in the world has been under constant pressure for the last dozen years, no Western country, despite the threats of authoritarian Russia, must have the luxury of saying 'no' to democratic Ukraine's aspirations to become a full member of the free world. Those who actually care about Europe's security must stand in the defence of free and democratic states. The fall of Ukraine would have a very negative impact on the security of the entire continent and would direct Russia's further pressure directly against NATO countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu continued to actively monitor the government's foreign policy activities in the last year, giving guidance if necessary to correct the inconsistencies that arose. The latter concerned the policy of sanctions against Belarus, where the good work of the press revealed doubts. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also drawn the government's attention to the fact that in shaping such an important common European policy towards China, we ourselves need to demonstrate our commitment to it by action. This means, however, that Estonia should withdraw from the unifying 16+1 format of the European Union and also give China diplomatically and descriptive information about the framework of future relations. Despite the restrictions caused by the pandemic, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs was able to be internationally active in the last year. We worked to strengthen the consensus among our closest allies and to increase the awareness of the situation among our colleagues, both in Europe and in the United States. Last year, cooperation between the Baltic States in the area of parliamentary diplomacy rose to a whole new level. The joint statements and joint visits initiated by the presidents of the Foreign Affairs Committees of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania received wider attention and provided a good opportunity to clarify our common foreign and security policy positions. In the last ten months alone, the committee presidents made joint visits to Ukraine, Germany, France, Moldova, Latvia and Lithuania. We will continue the same work this year. As early as this afternoon, I will fly with my Baltic colleagues to Rome, and in mid-March we will have to listen to the Helsinki Committee of the US Congress in Washington. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu also made several very meaningful visits last autumn when visiting Great Britain, Spain, the United States and the UN headquarters in New York. In relation to the latter, I would like to congratulate our diplomats who held the Estonian flag high on the UN Security Council for two years. The experience we have gained must now be wisely invested in our international cooperation. During the last year, the Riigikogu's plenary session dealt with several international applications initiated by members. Sometimes people ask what the benefits of such parliamentary statements are. However, when I was in Kiev a few weeks ago, I experienced just how important it was for our colleagues in Ukraine the expression of solidarity that the Riigikogu adopted at the beginning of this year. Finally, a word on my recent visit to Moscow. The round table organised by the Estonian embassy with MGIMO students and meetings organised by the embassy gave a good opportunity to present our view of what is happening in this extremely difficult security situation. However, at the meetings with the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of both Russian Parliaments, I stressed that the basis for substantive and constructive communication in bilateral relations is compliance with international law and its standards. On this basis, it is also possible to address problems in Estonian-Russian relations or the issues that await a solution, such as the ratification of the border treaty, if the talks are not held in front of the barrels, figuratively speaking. However, the existence of communication channels is particularly important at such a dangerous time, which is why, depending on the developments of the coming days, we will try to continue to have direct contacts with Russian parliamentarians as well. Ladies and gentlemen, The coming days, weeks, months and perhaps even years will be a period of serious challenges for Estonia's foreign and security policy. There is no reason to claim that the existential threat to our security in the near future will come to an end. We must be prepared for all possible developments. This, however, requires all of us here to commit to the most important: ensuring the sovereignty and security of Estonia. Thank you. Long live Estonia and live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U124	Thank you very much. Now we can go to the questions. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable waitress, for your excellent presentation and thank you for your decades of work in managing Estonia's foreign policy and very active implementation in the Coronary era as well! My question still concerns events at Ukraine's borders. It has been possible to follow interviews from several international channels where people on the street do not believe, do not believe or do not want to believe in the outbreak of war. For example, during street interviews in Russia, Putin is believed to demonstrate his influence by moving tens of thousands of military personnel and putting leaders from the world's leading countries to deal with him for weeks and months. How the Russian public...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U126	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U127	... views the possibility of an outbreak of war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U128	Thank you, good Annely! I don't think there's a single person in this hall waiting for war to break out. I think that we all want to do everything we can, above all, by making use of the possibilities of international diplomacy to prevent this disaster. There is still a chance, even though we must never forget it when we talk about Ukraine, that Ukraine is at war for the eighth year. Eightth year of war! 14,000 people have died, and one and a half million people have been forced to leave their homes. And frankly, it is not very difficult at all to imagine what this war is, how people can cope or adapt in such situations. For eight years, I have had the opportunity to go to the front line in Eastern Ukraine four times and to see and experience the way Ukrainian defence forces defend Ukraine, defend the freedom of their country and actually defend our freedom. And it is very difficult to describe more widely than to pass on this experience, because it is completely inappropriate for our time in our Europe at the beginning of the 21st century. And if anyone today wants to turn it back completely by rocket attacks or massive warfare, then of course it's understandable that a normal person refuses to believe it. The question was how the Russian public is currently taking or might view the situation that has developed. While I was in Moscow, our embassy also held one meeting with Deniss Volkov, director of the Levada Centre, perhaps the only, more or less independent public opinion research centre in Russia right now. I actually asked him the same question, perhaps with a little hint of why we do not see people protesting against war on the Russian streets. It is common knowledge that a Russian person does not want war. After all, this has been stated all along and it is also understandable that [the experience ever gained] is something that has led the Russian people to take such a position in an objective way. But what was very worrying was that, even if people say that they do not want war, most believe that the West is ready to attack Russia, that the West is restricting Russia, that it wants to gain control over Russia, and that, in fact, everything that has been going on in so-called Ukraine over the last eight years has not been the free will and will of the Ukrainian people to defend their country and to stand against Russia's aggression, but it really sees the opposite: that it is as if the West is trying to attack Russia. In this sense, these public opinion polls are actually giving the Russian leadership, today, perhaps, some sort of assurance that will allow such aggressive foreign policy to continue. And, of course, part of why people's opinions have become that is the massive propaganda of recent times, which, above all, Russian television channels do from morning to evening. But the background is also that Russia, as I said in my speech, has been raising people for decades knowing that the West is the enemy and the West is threatening Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U129	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U130	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! You met in Moscow, you raised the subject of the border treaty. What makes me think is that if we defend the territorial integrity of Ukraine, we should set an example for them, give them signals that 70 years later, too, violations of international law are not acceptable. We [should] be giving a strong signal that we are not going to enter into a border agreement where Tartu peace is not even wanted to be mentioned. Isn't that a bad signal for Ukraine? Should we not do the opposite and stress the meaning of Tartu's peace that we will not give up more than 70 years later?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U131	Thank you, good Anti, for the question! We're not giving up. We will certainly not repeat what happened in 1939 and 1940. We have learned very painfully from the experiences that took place then. With regard to the specific reference to the question that the subject of the border agreement was raised, yes, indeed, I think it would be extremely strange that when representatives of Estonia and Russia meet and when they talk about the issues that exist in bilateral relations, about the problems that have not been solved so far, and not raise the issue of the border agreement. In both cases, at the meeting with Grigori Karassini and Leonid Slutsk organised by our embassy in Moscow, the Russian side itself raised these issues. We exchanged information about where we are with this process today. However, as I said in my speech, I repeat, in answering your question, that it gave me the opportunity to look directly in their eyes and with my straight back to say that any progress in our relations, including in the process of ratifying the border treaty, has to do with whether Russia will stop escalating towards Ukraine, whether it will end the aggression against Ukraine or whether it will continue to violate international law. This, of course, raises a very serious question of how Russia feels about its agreements, about its international commitments. Here, on previous issues, it has been said that it is as if this agreement is extraordinary, which Russia could violate. Jaak White sits on your left hand, as a historian he knows very well how long it took for Tartu's peace to be established and, unfortunately, it was ruined. And in a very brutal way. In 1921, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was forced to send a message to Russia that not all the points that were in this agreement signed in 1920 will be fulfilled. Now we come back to this key issue. It is very important to us internationally that we do not act alone, but have allies, partners that we can count on. Our most important security guarantees are in cooperation with our partners. But being a Member State of the European Union and NATO, we also need to know that this border, which is our eastern border, is not only the border of the Republic of Estonia, but also the border between the European Union and NATO. We have double responsibility. We have a double responsibility for our own country's territory and its border, as we have actually agreed in the 1990s. [This] has been our attitude, the attitude of the government throughout the 30 years in relation to the territorial disputes that existed in the early 1990s, until the Government of the Republic of Estonia announced that recovery would be waived in 1994. And then, through the initialling and signing of border agreements, it has been repeatedly confirmed through different governments that the Republic of Estonia wishes to conclude the subject of the border agreement with the Russian Federation in a way that has been diplomatically agreed more than 20 years ago. But there's one more thing. You brought the question of what example Ukraine could set, for example, for such a journey. "Design" is not a good word, on the contrary. In fact, before I went to Moscow, I went to Kiev and met my colleagues there and told them that I was going to Moscow, that I probably had meetings there. I told them what I was going to tell them, including that what Russia is doing in Ukraine by force threatening and actually carrying out aggression in eight years is not in line with the standards of international law and is, above all, working against Russia's own interests in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U132	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you. We are pleased that Estonia has the kind of man you are. You said very nicely in your speech that the small things are working very well; the support of the Riigikogu for Ukraine was very powerful. What small, simple things can Estonian people do to prevent this terrible...? I don't even want to mention what.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U134	That's a good question. Thank you, Kristina. Let us all think about what is within our power to prevent these developments, which may ultimately not only threaten Ukraine, the survival of the Ukrainian state, of a democratic state. Ultimately, today is not only about what is happening to Ukraine, but what is happening to Europe. Russia has raised its stakes to a very high level, in the hope that Western unity will collapse and that it will be possible to achieve more favourable security policy control in Russia today, authoritarian Russia, Europe. I think it is essential for us to be aware of what the objectives of the opposite party are, then we are better able to shape our policies and strategies, we are not living in an illusory world. We must probably be prepared that relations with Russia will continue to be difficult for quite a long time and that tensions are likely to increase, whether there is a temporary escalation or descalation at Ukraine's borders in the near future. Unfortunately, I also heard at my meetings in Moscow that still the desire to return to normalization of relations does not appear to be at present in Russia. But what can be done in the direction of Ukraine? Certainly today, a number of civil society organisations have already announced that those who wish to support Ukrainians, support Ukraine, make donations, will be accepted in different civil society organisations. As a country, Estonia is giving Ukraine very great help on its small size, for years, and this must certainly be continued. This solidarity is... Well, it's not possible to touch it, but again, when I was in Kiev two weeks ago and it was known that Estonia was one of the first countries to announce that we were ready to give Ukraine a defence response, my colleague at the meeting said that Estonia is not a small country, Estonia is a superstate. And I think that's exactly what we haven't only made a bird somewhere, that you see, we got a good word from somewhere. This [means] that if we ever need help and support, we know that we have friends to trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U135	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, thank you for this speech and also for your actions. In my opinion, you and the whole Committee on Foreign Affairs show that a lot depends on Parliament if it really wants to move things. My question is similarly focused on what we ourselves can do. When refugees come from Ukraine, I am absolutely sure that we must help them as our people were helped in other countries during World War II. We really feel that all of this can affect us the same way. My question is that yesterday the Prime Minister said, and he has said in the past, that he has discussed with various ministries what ministries could do. And one question is education: if many children come here, which school they go to. There's a danger they're going to Russian school or Russian kindergarten. This has been seen before in the case of people from Ukraine who have come here. Should we not think about our Estonian-language school in order to give the same education to the children of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U137	Thank you, Margit! Surely we must be prepared for the various very complex scenarios. There's always hope until it's been that time, that everything will remain just a scenario. I believe, or at least hope, that the efforts that are currently being made on the diplomatic front will have the effect on the Russian leadership to return from the edge of the abyss. But indeed, the events in Eastern Ukraine showed in 2014, what such an invasion, an occupation in a relatively small territory could lead to. A million and a half inhabitants have been forced to leave their homes within Ukraine and a considerable number have certainly moved beyond Ukraine over these years. We certainly need to work together here at national level, but above all with our partners, who are directly in the neighbourhood of Ukraine and where the flow of refugees may move from there. And also at European Union level. The Ukrainian community is large. Ukraine also has communities in other European countries, such as Portugal and elsewhere. But this is certainly one of the issues that the government is currently working on in preparation. This morning, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we held an extraordinary meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in order to get an overview before the beginning of this meeting, which is exactly what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing at the moment both in strengthening Estonia's security and in assisting Estonian citizens in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U138	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, We know that imposing economic sanctions is an effective instrument to block aggression. Why does the person who is now far from professional foreign policy have the impression that China's possible support for Russia gives Russia the opportunity to whistle, not to pay attention to Western sanctions? How is it, really?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U140	Thank you. How it really is, it's hard to say. It is certainly not a policy of sanctions that is such a force for pressure on white. We have seen over the years how much, or to what extent, sanctions have been applied against Russia since 2014, when Russia attacked Ukraine, occupied and illegally annexed Crimea, and continues to support aggression and separatists in Eastern Ukraine as well. In the same way, we can say that the sanctions imposed in 2020 against the Belarusian regime's unrecognized leader Lukashenko and his relatives are, on the one hand, an extraordinary step towards consensus among the Member States of the European Union and are able to find this common ground and implement these sanctions. At the same time, as we know from our own experience, from time to time there are inconsistencies or gaps in sanctioning policies or gaps that need to be filled. And there are also moments where different countries have a question of how far to go with sanctions when using effective sanctions. After all, the problem is that it is indisputable that it will not leave no so-called retroactive effect on our economy, too, and so on. So Russia is currently calculating different options in its activities. As we have only recently heard here from a Russian diplomat, who is an ambassador in Sweden, that they are taking a condescending view of the possibility that sanctions might somehow affect Russia. Russia is obviously looking for support from China and possibly from some of the other countries that have gained strength in the world today, especially those countries that fit their authoritarianism and the most into Russia's world view. This, of course, complicates the rapid impact of these sanctions. However, the [one] message has been given to Russia repeatedly, and I hope that the German Chancellor Scholz will do so in Moscow today too, [that he will say what will happen], should this scenario, which has also been publicly shared, be triggered. And this intelligence has been shared, first and foremost, to prevent these decisions, to prevent an attack, giving a clear and unambiguous indication of who is an aggressor or who could be an aggressor. Certainly the extent of the sanctions that have not yet been imposed on Russia could significantly limit Russia's freedom of action. But, as I said before, there is no solution that we use in diplomacy and that brings us the right solutions or results.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U141	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U142	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question is about NATO enlargement. The Foreign Minister earlier answered my colleague's question that NATO is keeping the doors open for new entrants. Are there any signs that, for example, Finland and Sweden are taking steps towards open doors and joining NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U143	Last night I had a visit to the Riigikogu to visit one of Sweden's best known security policy analysts, Patrik Oksanen. He asked what else Sweden could do to make the security of the region stronger. I told him that Sweden could make its sovereign decision and become a member of NATO. I could say the same to my good Finnish colleagues. Undoubtedly, if Sweden and Finland made this historic decision, then the security of the whole of Northern Europe, the security of our own region, would be even more secure and shared. I think that in the end Russia would also be pleased, because what can be even better than the peaceful and democratic free states that exist beyond your borders? But it is certainly a very important context for NATO enlargement that we do not take a step backwards from what we have promised. In 2008, the NATO Member States promised at the Bucharest Summit that Georgia and Ukraine would become NATO Member States if they met the criteria and took the necessary steps to be part of the defence alliance of democratic free states. I think Ukraine has shown for eight years that they are willing to die for freedom; they are willing to die for European freedom. And, in fact, they deserve a clear message at the Madrid Summit this summer, which is their road map, to become a NATO Member State. Perhaps in the minds of analysts there are all sorts of thoughts circulating in the West today, but it is not tomorrow's question, perhaps we will lift this issue off the table at all and let's not talk about it. It is surrender; it is, in fact, a concession to the ultimative behaviour that Russia is demonstrating. There is no basis for the West to betray the Ukrainian people because 60% of Ukrainians have clearly expressed their desire to become NATO members. And over 70% want to become a Member State of the European Union. And let us not forget that in the Ukrainian constitution, too, these objectives are black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U144	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It's hard to disagree with your description of Russia. But I ask my colleague in the Polish forest [on the subject] whether we are not giving the wrong signal to Ukraine by going to talk about a new border agreement that does not even mention the peace of Tartu. Your answer was that, before Russia has completed its aggression against Ukraine, there can be no mention of progress on the border agreement. Am I getting this right? As long as Russia has Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, there will be no new border treaty on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U146	Thank you. Of course, you've just expanded my position in a free way. But that is what I said to the Russian side at the meetings in Moscow when they raised the subject that the general atmosphere of Estonian-Russian relations is currently not in favour of promoting them or in any way finding solutions to existing problems. I said that indeed the climate in bilateral relations leaves something to be desired. Indeed, how could this climate be good if one side seriously threatens the whole of Europe, the security of the whole of Europe and, in this case, the survival of democratic Ukraine as an independent state? Of course, under these circumstances, it is very difficult to imagine any debate on how we could move from this point to ratifications in parallel in parliaments. There are clearly limits to that. But I think it is not even a question of talking about one or another specific topic in Estonian-Russian relations. This is about our own security, our allied space security. What Russia is doing today in the direction of Ukraine and in exercises in Belarus, as well as the ultimative requirements that have been set out for the Western world, I do not see that this is a path that leads to a substantive dialogue where problems can be resolved in a mutually understandable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U147	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U148	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, It's like Russia's acting like a cornered animal. You just mentioned joint exercises in Belarus. My question is: do you think that Belarus is still an independent country, or have they already signed an agreement to join Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U149	Thank you. Indeed, Russia's interest in politically, economically and also militaryly influencing Belarus has been a very long-term goal. In essence, since the 1990s, when the first Union agreement between Russia and Belarus was signed, this objective has been pursued. But, of course, Russia's action to create this alliance and so-called 'deuveranis' in Belarus is particularly dramatic. This is what we have seen in the last two years since the events of 2020 following the presidential elections in Belarus. Of course, what is happening right now, these very large-scale military exercises in Belarus, as well as Lukashenko's own views on all of this, this shows that the strategic picture regarding Russia's interests in Belarus has fundamentally changed. Of course, it is interesting to see what will happen after 20 February when the exercises are over: how much will Russian troops leave Belarus territory and whether there will be a situation where Russia will really create new bases on Belarus territory and directly near NATO borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for questions has run out. We can go to the negotiations. But before we go to the negotiations, we need to make a decision on the extension of the sitting. The initiator of the debate has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. If I'm looking at calls now, I can see that we're definitely crossing at 1:00. Let's make a hall call and vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiator of the debate has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. I shall put to the vote the question of extending the sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U151	The extension of the sitting shall be supported by 36 delegates, one against and one abstention. It has been decided to extend the sitting. We will go to the negotiations in accordance with the agreed procedure: first the representatives of the political groups and then the other members of the Riigikogu, just as the order has been placed in order. First of all, I'm calling a speech chair for Fatherland representative Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U152	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Honourable Riigikogu! It cannot be said that no one is endangering Russia. There is a great danger to Russia, and it is itself, especially its current regime. So, what suddenly happened to the situation being so dramatic and unexpectedly escalated? There are two and a half reasons. The first is Russia's internal situation. Putin's policy is broke. The economy, which was to grow especially strongly in his time compared to Yeltsin's time, is essentially stagnation. Society is suppressed and fragmented. In the area of the rule of law, civil society, human rights, there is a huge backward move. We can say that all these things are Russia's internal affairs, but we understand the logic of aggressive regimes: aggression in foreign policy is preceded by national cleansing before the war, so that there is no opposition, so that there is no vote against. So, on the one hand, it is Putin's need to rig up the tensions and ideally [to keep] a small victorious war, as it was in 2008, when he managed very dramatically to increase his popularity, his rating and any such Russian chauvinist pride. There is another reason. And this is Afghanistan. Afghanistan was a disaster not only for this country. I'd compare it to the fall of the Berlin Wall, but this time this wall fell on the other side. And we'll see the consequences for a long time. This is a huge setback for Western civilization on the scale of the world. The weakness of the current President of the United States and his desire to improve his image with some initiative. Now he is a great peacemaker, preventing a great war between Russia and Ukraine, or even a world war. And the European Union is weak. And half the point is Putin's miscalculation. No European leader or North American leader has been able to do as much for the unity of Western society or Western civilisation as Vladimir Putin has now done. It has achieved that the European Union is more united than ever. NATO's determination to defend its positions and values is greater than it was two months earlier. What are the mistakes that we make in this discourse that Russia has some legitimate interest that we are currently invading? I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U153	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U154	There are still various guarantees, as did Presidents Biden and Macron. All this is only aggravating the situation. The policy of calming the Aggressor has never been successful; we remember it very well in the history of Europe last century. Soothing the aggressor is encouraging him, encouraging him to take new steps. There is no conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Ukraine is the same as Germany was in the region of the Sudetes in Czechoslovakia: it must have been his last demand. We know it was just the beginning. The logic of the Putin regime cannot be that it has now reached that point and will not go any further. As it achieves its goals in Ukraine, new goals will come. And it's not really my speculation, it's being spoken out in public. It's about the Foreign Minister, it's about propaganda and Russian political scientists. Aggression is always about propaganda and lies. The whole Russian society has been spilled with lies. Even more critical people believe that NATO had given Russia a guarantee that it would not expand east. It has also been repeatedly refuted by Gorbachev, that Russia has not been given such guarantees, that it has not asked for it, and that has not been at all on the agenda. It has been overturned by NATO and the United States. But it is believed because day after day Putin always says that none, ne odnovo djuima, no centimeters east, so he was promised. Who promised him? And that's just part of the lies. The saddest thing for me is that part of Estonian society, and not just the Russian-speaking population, also repeats this Russian propaganda, that it is not the case in general that one side is only wrong, there must be some truth on the other side. That's not it. If a bandit comes at you for a wallet or a life, you won't be looking for a compromise. Well, I don't know, but it's... It only encourages him to commit further crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U155	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U156	Honourable Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. I am sure that every person in this Chamber, elsewhere in Estonia and Europe wants to get an answer to the most topical question: will there be a new war in Europe or not? Hopefully, tensions will be eased through diplomatic channels. We must make every effort to avoid escalation on European territory. It is our common home, our lives, our health and the sustainable development of Europe. Good ambassadors! This conflict, which has erupted between Russia and Ukraine, was not born in one day. It has a long history. As early as 1997, U.S. policy maker Zbigniew Brzezinski wrote in his most famous book "The Great Chess Table" that when Russia restores control of Ukraine's state and its resources and ensures its passage to the Black Sea, it will automatically have the levers to restore an empire that lies not only in Europe but also in Asia. Brzezinski predicted at the time that Russia would one day demand guarantees that Ukraine would not become a NATO member. In both political statements and summits, Estonia has repeatedly emphasised that it supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. We are of the opinion that Ukraine, like any other democratic country that shares European values, human rights and freedoms, must be able to choose its own political identity and security partners, and no one else must predetermine it. Dear Riigikogu! In resolving this conflict, both Estonia and Europe as a whole aim to be visible, audible and influential. Europe must make a determined effort to remain an important partner in the security negotiations alongside the US and Russia. We support the Normandy format for democratic security negotiations. Eastern European countries, in cooperation with the Baltic States, have successfully endured a hybrid attack on Belarus and stopped the flow of politically directed migrants. This shows that even small countries that do not have a large-scale defence resource can jointly defend their positions. Europe's strength is its unity and joint efforts. There have been comments that Estonia is certainly not affected by the current security crisis in Europe. I am of the opinion that such an opinion is not valid. Europe is our common home, and what is happening in neighbouring countries is bound to affect us. In the event of conflict escalation, we must be prepared for the arrival of war refugees in Estonia, which, of course, has an impact on our economy, health and social system and on the labour market. Therefore, Estonia and Europe as a whole must not afford to be indifferent to this issue. Luckily, that hasn't happened either. Despite the tense situation, we must not forget that the Estonian-Russian border agreement has not yet been ratified. The government in office is ready to go ahead with this, despite the fact that the current escalating situation is not conducive to developments in this direction. I take this opportunity to acknowledge the contribution of our Foreign Minister, Eva-Maria Liimetsa, and the entire diplomatic corps to the resolution of the Russian-Ukraine conflict. As a long-term diplomat, Eva-Maria Liimets well knows that the winner may not be the one who makes the loudest noise. Balance, patience and cooperation are key words that aim for foreign policy. Estonia is small in population, but in the international arena, we have excelled with our cleverness and activity, and we have achieved many of the goals that have been set. We are a member of the European Union, NATO, UN, OSCE and many other international organisations, and the activities of our ambassadors in the various parliamentary assemblies stand out. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I would ask that our diplomats and relevant authorities be given a cease-fire and that assessments be made on the basis of facts, in order to avoid causing unnecessary panic. With all my heart, I hope that we will manage to resolve the situation peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U157	Thank you very much. Ruuben Kaalep, on behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu and everyone else who listens to this! This time is difficult, fatal and meaningful. Europe's destiny will be decided in Ukraine. And not only will it be decided whether Russia's imperialist aggression will stop or continue, but it will also be decided in what form we will see the cooperation of the peoples of Europe in decades' time. Russia's military force is a great threat to Europe, but it is, unfortunately, far from the only threat. Now is the time to draw new spheres of influence on the map, and everyone who pretends that we will remain untouched will live in illusion. Since the leaders of France, Germany and the US are discussing Ukraine's fate with the Russian President, it is a reality. And it is also the reality that real decisions are made in spaces to which we do not have access, no matter how sacred stories about eternal allies. If Ukraine falls, we will be next on the menu. It is not enough to rely on our allies to prevent this in order to ensure Estonia's independence in the 21st century. That requires bold and strong action. Good listeners! Estonian foreign policy is weaker than ever at the time of the current government. The only initiative that has come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the direction of Russia is the desire to conclude a treasonous border treaty. With this border agreement, Estonia would give up the inseparable areas of our right in Setomaa and behind Narva. Following Russia's rhetoric, it is obvious that only an aggressor would benefit from this agreement, for whom it would legitimise both the current expansionary foreign policy and, on the way back to history, the whole violent Soviet occupation, the serious violation of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the destruction of Estonians behind the control line. It is absurd and disgusting to say that the border agreement is useful for Estonia, as it gives us a bilaterally recognised border line. To meet the demands of the okpand and to legitimize them is extreme invertebrate. Let us take as an example our ally from Ukraine, who has not abandoned either Crimea or Donbass. The Ukrainian legislation defines them as temporarily occupied areas, and the Ministry of Re-integration of Occupied Areas operates temporarily in Ukraine. Neither can we in Estonia, sticking to our history and the fight of our forefathers, ever abandoning consistent peaceful diplomatic action to ensure that the Estonian flag once again flies over the ancient walls of Petseri monastery, Irboska and Jaanilinna. Dear Riigikogu! We cannot fail to stress once again that alongside aggressive Russia, which is armed to the teeth, we must also see the softest and most subtle threats that are ambushing us from other weather maps. The foundations of the Estonian state are national statehood and ethnic nationalism under ideological and demographic attack in the Western world. Among our allies are countries such as France and Germany, whose immigration policy does not guarantee that the French or German majority nation will remain in their own country during this century. Eurabia or afroeuropea is not conspiracy theories, but a clear demographic outturn over 30 to 40 years. What allied relationship do we imagine with European countries dominated by the demography of the third world? We must also clearly see the ideological and cultural processes behind these demographic developments and abandon the obvious double standards. In addition to the demographic crisis, the Western world has entered an unprecedented cultural and identity crisis. This is a clear result of the abandonment of national statehood, as abstract human rights or Western values do not replace someone's ethnic identity, which is rooted in the soil of their homeland. Of course, abandoning it is in the interests of the global financial cartel and large corporations, because their ideal is the global urban sprawl, where the nations are reduced to a grey mass of consumers. However, they have only been able to force Europeans temporarily to abandon national identity. The identity of other peoples and cultures is only being strengthened, be it radical Islam, the United States of America's racial unrest or the rise of Asian states as global centres of power. The tendency towards totalitarianism is characteristic of systems that are in the process of being destroyed, which must certainly include Western liberal democracy. Who, another three years ago, could have imagined steps such as the compulsory vaccination introduced by Austria and the restriction of the mandate of unvaccinated Members in our neighbouring country, Latvia? We put in here the joint work of social media and international organisations, the so-called Ministry of Truth, or the so-called hate speech and the fight against misinformation on the Internet. Not only have the constructive questions about the COVID pandemic fallen victim to it, but it is used in Western countries as a direct political malaka to silence dissidents. If we draw attention to the obvious electoral counterfeiting in Russia and Belarus, then we must also be able to speak freely about anomalies and violations in the US presidential elections. And as much as we are aware of Russia's influence, we should also learn to recognise the influence of Western ideologies and large corporations in Estonia, whether it is under open society funds or some other label. Good listeners! At least two different values are struggling with each other in Estonia: the so-called Western value area, which focuses on abstract human rights and the global trading system, and the Finno-Ugric value area, which focuses on national statehood and the self-determination of peoples. The attempts to impose on the people of Estonia the value space imported from the west leads to the division of the people. However, there are also a number of foreign policy issues where Estonia's and Western values unite. We cannot support the Communist regime in China either in terms of self-determination of peoples or human rights. Estonia has a special role to play in supporting self-determination efforts of repressed small peoples, such as Tibetans, Uighurs and natives of Internal Mongolia. However, it is on such matters that Estonia's foreign policy has been particularly toothless, favouring economic interests over any fundamental value. Even in the event of the termination of Mali's mission, our decision-makers were not interested in the situation of indigenous peoples, democracy or human rights, but only in the opinion of the great powers. Unfortunately, Estonia's foreign policy has also been toothless towards Russia on these key issues. In addition to the attempts to betray the Tartu Peace Treaty, Estonia's foreign policy has avoided the repression of Finno-Ugric people and other indigenous peoples of Russia at international level. The fact that this initiative in the Riigikogu was voted down last autumn under pressure from government parties is a disgrace. We and our kindred people deserve better. Good Riigikogu! The security of Estonia can only be ensured in the long term by cooperation with the closest regional allies to us, including the Baltic States, Poland and Hungary as well as Ukraine. Intermarium cooperation is the answer to the policy of the new spheres of influence, the multilateral world, Eastern imperialism and the western decline. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] May the wisdom and national heritage of our ancestors protect all the peoples of Europe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U159	Thank you. For the Reform Party, Eerik-Niles Kross, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U160	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Foreign policy autism has also proved dangerous to Estonia in earlier times. And in some ways, I also respond to the previous speech that represented this trend. It has been reminisced here today many times since 1939 and 1940, but with these parallels, you wouldn't want to go too far. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that indeed there has been no such pre-war situation or mood in Europe since August 1939. We're in a different situation, but we're in a similar situation. On September 2, 1939, the day after World War II began, Postimees wrote on the front page: "Everything around us is calm and quiet. There is no reasonable reason to believe that this condition should change. The nest of suffering that was mentioned is far from us, and we are not affected by the situation. " However, of course, the Estonian leadership felt the situation better. On the evening of September 1, Laidoner had a conference of senior soldiers, and Laidoner said as a summary of the conference: "The drama of the new human race has begun, no one knows or knows what it will end, but one thing is certain: a new world will come out of war, another world that is not similar to the existing one." And it is in this sense that the current situation is similar to August 1939 because the new world is already emerging and no one knows what it will be. Because the normal world order created after World War II, which respects international law, is under attack today. And this attack will continue. What is the most important thing to remember today? This attack will not end either if Russian troops should withdraw from Ukraine's borders next week, because this attack is more systematic, wider and perhaps more dangerous than the direct war against Ukraine. The task of Estonia, the task of the free world, the most important task today is to recoil this attack and not only with military deterrence and sanctions. These are only elements in this great matter, but precisely through the restoration of a world based on legal, institutional, international legal order and standards. I am saying that this world order does not already exist today as it has been for the past decades. How to do this is, of course, not entirely clear today. But inevitably, Estonia must participate actively and in principle here. And the restoration process will be long-term, difficult and the risk of fatigue is very great. In fact, it is sad to note that Estonia's security has been exponentially strengthened in recent years, either at the cost of the blood of the people of Georgia or Ukraine. A little cynical to say, but that's the way it is. In 2008, Estonia received defence plans in NATO when Russia attacked Georgia. Since 2014, after the occupation of Crimea, Ämaris is based on allied planes, Tapa is a battle group of NATO battalions. And now that the threat of a great war in Ukraine is high again, Britain has announced doubling its contingent in Estonia. There are also additional troops coming from Denmark. So, yes, today it can be said that, although skeptics think too little and too slow, in the end and in principle NATO allies have reacted to this every time the security threat in our region is growing significantly, with real additional forces to ensure our situation. And this is perhaps an encouraging and positive aspect of this dark clouded security environment. It is often said that over the last 100 years Estonia has had two crazy luck: the victory of the War of Independence and the restoration of independence. Firstly, this has to do with luck, perhaps only in terms of exploiting the international situation. I recall that in 1918 Ukrainians also declared independence. In 1991, independence was restored, Ukrainians gained independence, and the international circumstances were not significantly different for them than they were for us. So, in addition to luck, obviously as a nation, as a country, we have succeeded in what many of our fellow fates have failed, mastered or wanted at least at the time. So you must be aware that in addition to Tartu's peace and restoration of independence in 1991, the miracle of joining NATO is almost the same in terms of our survival position. And especially today, we should perceive this because joining NATO did not fall on our laps. It was the ten-year work of several governments, several ministerial officials, dedicated people. And it bore fruit because the window of the narrow opportunity given by history could be exploited. Russia was still weak, the West was still somewhat noble and we were naive and courageous. But as Lennart Meri said at the time, when he was chasing into NATO, there would not be a security sun oath. This difficult time offers us both opportunities and concerns and challenges. Unfortunately, there is a situation where it is possible, but also necessary to exponentially strengthen the security and protection of Estonia. So we have to deal with bringing NATO's additional troops to Estonia. We can talk seriously again about energy security, because it has become a more coherent vision in Europe. We need to talk about getting rid of Russian gas, shutting down empire-minded television channels. All these initiatives are currently possible. And now it is time to make another leap towards a protected and strong allied country, a country that would indeed be fatal to any dictator. Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Estonian diplomats have done a very good job lately, showing Estonia as a responsible, principled and active ally. Weapons shipments to Ukraine initiated by the Minister of Defence, continuing to keep the Estonian embassy working in Kiev, unlike most of our partners in the European Union, Estonia is now in unprecedented weight in the world. But when I started with Laidoner, I'm gonna end up with Laidoner. When the world was old on September 1, 1939, but the war had begun, it is clear today that although the war has not yet begun directly, the world has already changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U161	Time, Eerik!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U162	One minute. All members of the United Nations...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U163	There's no one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U164	We are now in a situation where Russia is committing a crime under international law. Threatening a war is a violation of the United Nations Charter. The aggressive war is since the Nuremberg Charter, and its planning is also punishable. When an acute crisis...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U165	Time, Eerik!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U166	... will end tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or next week, then the world and Estonia together will have to decide what the consequences are. If there's no follow-up...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U167	Eerik, you've been talking about three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U168	...if the crime is not punished, the world order has changed irrefutablely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U169	You had five plus three minutes. The previous speakers remained in their time. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U170	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who are watching this debate here today! First of all, thank you to the Minister, the Ministry and the officials of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who have prepared this debate. As has been pointed out here on several occasions, probably in this kind of context, the Riigikogu has never held a foreign policy debate before. However, there is no reason to rejoice about this. I really liked it, and I think it is a very timely quote from the minister, where he quoted George Kennan's written idea, which says: "At last, the Kremlin's jealous and intolerant look only distinguishes the vassal and the enemy, and if Russia's neighbor does not want to be one, he must accept that there is another. " I do not really agree with the extension that concerns only Russian neighbours who are not members of NATO or the European Union. I'm afraid you can't be that optimistic. Unfortunately, it also concerns us who belong to these organisations, although, of course, in a somewhat different way than those who do not. So my approach may be somewhat more pessimistic. But I am very pleased to see what we have heard here on several occasions today and what the last few weeks have really shown: I think that the notion of the same quote has gone much further than ever before. The recognition of Estonian diplomats, the day-to-day promoters and designers of security and foreign policy, who have also managed to bring this message to our allies, who understandably, because they are somewhat further away from Russia than their closest neighbours, do not have the experience of belonging to the Soviet Union. They have previously perceived Russia's ambitions as keenly as those who had to act in its immediate neighbourhood. I hope that all those people who have led this position to our allies will continue to have strength and will continue to succeed. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the tension in our region isn't gonna go away quickly. In this context, however, I would like to call for a correction of those views that the European Union is weak, that it is unable to respond adequately. The European Union and, of course, NATO have shown themselves to be exceptionally strong and united in this crisis. I really hope it goes on like this. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U171	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U172	There is also reason to rejoice at the cooperation that has been in this situation between the Baltic States. And I must also recognise here, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that the cooperation between the Baltic States has been increasingly excellent. I think it's very smart in this situation. Forgive me, perhaps in a somewhat different context, for the comparison, but it does. When we organized "Estonian Republic 100" events, it was clear that [on these topics], where it might have been difficult for Estonia to deliver its message alone and to stand out in good faith, it was 1 + 1 + 1 times more than 3. And that's what we're seeing in this situation. I'm glad we use this format wisely. Let's hope we can take it from here to the future, no matter what lies ahead. Hopefully, there will be better and more peaceful times ahead. One criticism, however, which I must say. Yes, we have already criticised the fact that we remained somewhat sedentary when it turned out that, in the material sense, though non-formal, there is still a transit of Belarusian fuel oil in Estonia. Luckily, we reacted. But there's another thing I asked the Minister today. And, unfortunately, I cannot agree with the Minister's reply that this is a purely socio-economic issue. This is not, firstly, a purely socio-economic issue, and it is also absurd in socio-economic terms. We have been talking for years about reducing gas dependence. Even yesterday's phone call between the President of the United States and the British Prime Minister highlighted gas dependence and the need to reduce it as one of the main concerns. And then, in this situation, in the midst of this entire security crisis, while we are also experiencing an energy crisis, the government, after a long and controversial dispute with the public, takes the decision to help those people who are heating their homes with gas, this aid is in itself great, but not essentially to help those who are heating their homes with electricity, which we are basically buying from the Nordic countries coming from Nord Pool. In the case of Russian gas, we are helping to compensate for the excess cost at eight times the rate for Nordic electricity. I do not understand, firstly, how, in socio-economic terms, the government can, without any justification, distinguish people from what kind of accession they have and not go to the aid of [all]. And I do not understand how this can be done in the context where we are today, where we are always talking about reducing gas dependence. What's that signal? I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have a role to play in the government at such moments: friends, so cannot, so must not, because it is not in our interest, let alone that it is unfair. But I agree with this positive note about the UN Security Council, which the Minister pointed out in his speech. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And finally, I very much hope that we will have balance and wisdom...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U173	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U174	...and the power... Considering how much the previous speaker went over [time], I'm taking it for ten minutes to...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U175	Ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U176	Ten seconds, sorry! ...to explain his views, senses and interests to our opponents and our friends, perhaps even more to our friends. Because this support and understanding is needed in Ukraine, and so do we. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U177	Oudekki Loone, please! Let's keep it that I give the time as chairman of the meeting, not take it. Please, eight minutes, Oudekki.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U178	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's imagine for a moment that we have a time machine. We will adjust this time machine to the early morning on March 16, 1978. Let's pick a place for Rome, the house of Ambassador Aldo Moro. We will find him there and say: Mr Moro, we are from the future, we need your help as a great diplomat, because there will be a terrible war in the future that should be prevented. Mr Moro, of course, agrees. We'll adjust our time machine to September 12, 2001, pick Kabul as our location. Imagine Aldo Moro, who will solve the crisis that followed 11 September, which has impaled our entire 21st century. He would certainly have spoken to Mullah Omar, treating him with the respect that every head of state deserves. He would certainly have found diplomatic means to avoid this 20-year war, the end of which we saw in reality only in August this year. Why am I so sure? For, you see, Aldo Moro, as Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs, as Prime Minister, was able to save the Italian economy by speaking of loans from institutions that took Italy with great doubt. He was able to involve the largest Communist party in the Western world in government without formally taking them into government. And most importantly, he was able to compromise with the worst Arab terrorists that others considered to be absolute pariahs with whom they didn't. After concluding these compromises, he ended all the affluences between the Arabs and the Israelis on Italian territory and apparently prevented Arab societies from sinking into the civil war, the Communist anti-communist trenches, giving the region its own value and its own policy in the face of the Cold War. For this, of course, Mr Moro probably paid with his life, but it does not make his achievements [less] valuable. Why do I look like him? Not only because I am the chairman of the Estonian-Italian parliamentary group, but also because it seems to me that the situation in foreign policy and the economy in which we find ourselves today is not very different from that which was then. At that time, the oil crisis was in the economic sphere, the crisis in the strategic sphere of the oil producers in the Middle East and the forum of scientists under the name of the Rome Club, who predicted an immediate ecological disaster without the immediate introduction of a mattusiastic policy. Today we have a gas supply crisis in the economic sphere, a gas producer and transporter crisis in the strategic sphere, and a whole bunch of scientists' associations who are saying that there is going to be an ecological disaster, the only way to avoid it is to think about it! just a policy of malitusanism. Let's all stick together, let's all get poorer! Like in a board game, we've been sent back to square one again. In the seventies the oil crisis was artificial, the war was avoidable, the Catholicisms of scientists were greatly exaggerated, and the maltusians were, of course, unacceptable. So today too: the gas crisis, the crisis in managed energy sources is artificial, war is avoidable and the maltusiastic cuts that we are all going to be poor are equally unacceptable. By the way, these aren't random similarities. (aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Behind the crisis in 1968, the elites had the desire to In the same way today, the elite are trying to send the great people's movements back to the pre-Brexit, even more so, pre-crisis situation in 2008, where they have neither a welfare nor a say. There are some differences. The most important thing is the absence of large monoliths. The U.S. departure from Afghanistan actually put an end to the possibility of talking about the West as something united. It's like the process is anti-Suess. If, after the crisis in Suez, the European countries did not take major security policy initiatives without consulting the US, now, with leaving Kabul, the United States drew a sort of line between itself and NATO, creating a political gap. Of course, gaps in politics never last, as we know. Germany and France have been very effective in filling this gap. Berlin seems to have chosen a kind of brandy Ostpolitik. And France, Paris, while remaining a good partner, is taking its political steps without coordination first. Moreover, there is Brussels, who, in this new world of realism, where national security is important, will not find a place with its idealistic policies. Because, you see, the European Commission is practically alone at the moment, it is still standing up for spreading its values, its way of life. No wonder that in the crisis in Ukraine we see the United States, we see France, we see Germany, we see NATO, but we do not see the European Union, because the European Union does not have the means to live in this world of realism. All right. But, Estonia, where are we in this world? If we really had a time machine and we could borrow Moro from the past, what would he recommend to us? I think he'd follow the same principles: talk to everyone and not force anyone to choose sides. Let us not forget that one important reason for the crisis in Ukraine was that it was forced to choose between Europe and Russia. Today, all countries have the same question between the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea: whether to remain a passive spectator, to remain a battlefield, geographically between Germany and Russia, or to take our fate and say it, but we are actually the heart of Europe and we make ourselves beat. And if the Ukrainian authorities say, hey, stop this war hysteria, we don't need a war, then we should invite all these countries between the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea to Tallinn and discuss how to avoid this war. If peace is made by someone else, it is never in our interests. That's normal political logic. The peace we make ourselves, on our own terms, the trenches that we lock ourselves up, the walls we tear down ourselves, and the bridges we build, taking advantage of our position in a good way. As the bridge between the West and the East, we can be a natural bridge, not just an army. That's a better solution. And in this case, this is not the fragmentation that I mentioned, it is not the fragmentation between Paris, Brussels and Berlin. It becomes a good pluralism that guarantees that the world can live in many ways and build a country in many ways. In a situation where we say that others have to deal with crises over our heads, fragmentation becomes a threat. What do we choose? Here before, someone mentioned such an inter-marine alliance. That's a good plan. Let's take care of our future! Let's say we want peace, we want to be a bridge, and we don't want anyone to rule out any partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U179	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U180	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that I'm not a foreign policy expert, but some things have really upset me, and I've been keeping an eye on it. At the moment, I heard from the esteemed Foreign Minister that he was about to fly from here to Washington, but not to Moscow, and that the last time he spoke to his [Russian colleague] a year ago. Given the situation that we are also told in Washington that war will start tomorrow, I ask: what is going on? I don't think that's normal. I read the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs last year, which was on 16 February. Yes, the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about how we have worked in the Security Council as one of the main negotiators on the peace process in Afghanistan. I can't talk about the green turn, although here we could talk more about it, which is all the initiative. But what really happened? And there wasn't a word that happened last year. The total failure of Estonian foreign policy! The current President's Internal Advisor, Toomas Sildam, has said that if it isn't failure and failure, then what is it? But that's what I say. I watched with interest what happened in Afghanistan. I've been there many times, and I care about this country. Before Midsummer Day, the first signal was that 300 Afghan army soldiers fled to Tajikistan. I watched more countries every day than any other country that's going on there. On August 6, Zaranj, the first provincial capital, and on August 15, Kabul fell. 11 days, and President Ashraf Ghani fled to Tajikistan by helicopter full of dollars. But our president, then president, was still the last head of state in Kabul in April, sworn allegiance to the man who fled his country with a helicopter full of dollars. It was a total beating. I have also met the Afghan army and police leaders in my time and seen these polygons and what happened there. It's a fuck-up! The second war in Afghanistan, the failure, the first and now the second. And right now, the esteemed Minister of Foreign Affairs, he won't say a word about it. Embarrassing! But we have trusted our colleagues, our fellow combatants, the very same, [to whom] the Prime Minister will now drive from here. Chairman of the [US] Chiefs of Staff Committee Milley stated just before that there were no signs that the Afghan army and security forces would surrender. At the same time, Washington Post wrote a few years ago, I even have a clipping based on intelligence reports that all signs show that most things have failed. Nevertheless, the crowds continued to be driven to their heads. And not only for the American people, but also for us. And the foreign policy of Estonia, I ask what the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are doing there. They're on the scene. Or we can go to Africa now. There's a small country, not a small one, but a pretty big one, Mali. On 9 December, Parliament voted in favour of extending Mali's mission. My 16 colleagues and I voted against. And today I hear this mission has failed and our boys will be brought back. 44 of my fellow Members in Parliament voted in favour of extending the mission. But we are going back: on 27 September, the government, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs is also in office, came up with a proposal to extend the mission. And now I ask: the day before, on 26 September at the UN General Assembly, the leader of the Malian junta, Choguel Maï, appeared. He said: France has betrayed us, our hope is in Russia. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Nice bell! If I could have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U181	Yes, it is, and you always say beautiful bell. You can have three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U182	Thank you. By the way, Prime Minister Maïga speaks Russian freely and I have repeatedly said that he was a former IT minister, studied in Moscow and so on. By the way, the leaders of the coups, their closest fighters, were trained in Moscow just before. And it is clear a long time ago, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should also be clear that Russia is taking up positions in Africa at the time of the Cold War, long ago. Sudan, Mozambique, Central African Republic, Burkina Faso and so on. In the Central African Republic, on CNN photos, I've seen people wearing a shirt called Je suis Wagner. And Banguis in the Central African Republic is a monument in the center of the city, a bronze sculpture is there for a long time, and the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could know it, where there are four soldiers, whose [behind behind] wife with two children, the faces of Wagner's boys. And here we extend, swearing allegiance in this case to the French. And we're still prolonging it. It's embarrassing! And what's going on in Africa? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs might know that the Russian influence has indeed been strengthening there for a long time. Online channels are held up, western hostility is encouraged. There's supposed to be 700 Wagner soldiers in Mali by now. And then, when we were discussing the extension of the mission, and when the Secretary of Defense was here, he said he had no idea. Bullet in the head, what's going on! We knew. But the government doesn't know about this. But to sum up what? Thank you for reading the report I had read before, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Just a few words didn't match it. Some kind of creativity could still be. And I would have liked to talk about the real thing. We will come back: when the war begins tomorrow, we would have liked an honest debate on what is really going on and what are our chances, how much we should think about our heads and how much we should look around, not read the beautiful text here before we get on a plane to Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U183	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Siim Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U184	Honorable Chairman! I need three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U185	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U186	It seems to me that, first of all, I should say that just before entering this door, there was an initially unconfirmed announcement that Russia had begun to withdraw its troops from the southern regions. So I don't know, I don't think there's gonna be a war. But as far as foreign policy is concerned, I would like to say the following. Smart foreign policy relies on smart internal policies and smart internal policies are underpinned by intelligent public opinion that understands the complex breathing and circulation of international politics. When I follow the foreign policy debate in Estonia, I note a few things. First of all, we're looking at everything as if from the position of the natural observer, everything is away from us, far away from us. The international situation does not excite the wider public much, much less excites than the increase in electricity prices. Secondly, the Estonian public opinion competes, who suspects, distrusts, teaches our allies and partners more. Every slight change in the behavior of our allies is viewed with extreme distrust. Will Germany betray? Will France betray? Will the United States betray? There is an internal policy in all democratic countries, with a wide range of opinions that, of course, must be closely monitored. But the same democratic structure does not allow treason, cardinal allied relations to be changed, agreements and promises not to be honoured. They won't betray. There are some facts in our foreign policy. Firstly, we are a thousand times smaller than China and a hundred times smaller than Russia. It determines our space of opportunity. We rely on our allies more than any larger country. For the allies, the question is whether we are a problem or a solution for them. What are the problems and what are the solutions? The solutions lie in loyalty to and engagement with our allies: for example, our defence budget expenditure, such as our participation in missions, such as our support for our biggest ally, the US, which he wanted in connection with the Iraq war. We will be a problem if our requests to support us are not balanced with our own contribution, and even if our internal policies are shaped by discord and violent clashes, if we are dominated by those political forces who do not want the current security policy to continue, who say publicly, for example, that America is an aggressor, not Russia. This undoubtedly leads to distrust in our allies. There is much talk of sanctions against Russia. What is the real impact of sanctions? It is known that the Russian people were ready to starve for the political goals. Is it still like that? Warfare is an expensive undertaking. World domination is also an expensive undertaking. In the old days, the cost of warfare was covered by robbing conquered lands. But what is the forecast for Russia's financial situation? We know that NATO countries have much more money. Money war is no less important than cyber war. The fate of many conflicts, wars and clashes was determined by the ability of the rear. According to all assumptions, this is bigger on our side than in Russia. In the event of a long-term conflict, it adds hope. At this point, I would like to say that Ukraine's financial assistance, in addition to other forms of assistance, is therefore of primary, also military, importance. This is what we can do specifically here today, after all, there was a lot of talk about what we should be doing. I would also like to say that, when we look back on history since World War II, it is still strange that Russia has achieved exactly the opposite of what it has requested in all its political initiatives. He applied for power in Europe, became NATO. He sought and is still seeking power over Ukraine, but he has become his closest brother-in-law a fierce enemy. It's still a wild political failure. The previous speaker said that we have failed in Afghanistan, I would say that Russia has seriously failed in Ukraine. And all these rumors that Russia is a scary strong, scary hard negotiator are not always confirmed. I would also like to say, of course, that today's debate has been extremely interesting, extremely meaningful and there is no doubt about our commitment to Ukraine's struggle for its independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U187	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for using time well. And now I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Paul Puustusmaa. I'm gonna go ahead and ask, is there an extra time just in case? All right, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U188	Thank you. Good people! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you here or watching elsewhere? It was, of course, a pleasure to hear a good colleague, Mr Kallas, say that, according to unconfirmed data, Russian troops are moving away from their positions that threaten our well-being and our order. There probably won't be a war. Well, that's good! That's really good! At the same time, we cannot forget the words that said the Eerik-Niles Kross here a little while ago: nor does it, even if there is no war, nor does it mean anything when Russian troops are taken away, because this evil, which is in Russia, is systemic. Indeed, it is systemic and does not depend on whether these troops are now at the border, whether they are 100,000 men, with swords in hand, waiting for an invasion of Ukraine or not. "Ceterum censeo Carthakinem essa delendam" has never been said by a man like Cato the Elder. Cato the Elder said this Latin sentence at the end of each Riigikogu speech. The Riigikogu, which was the Senate in ancient Rome. At the end of each of his talks, he said this in connection with the fact that the country of Carthage was Rome [for] as a dog pound, as an evil [which] was willing to come back at any moment. And couldn't stop until it finally didn't exist. These political conquests eventually led to the conclusion that no matter how we look at it, Carthage ceased to exist. His evil ceased to exist. Perhaps we should also start finishing each of our speeches on this board with the words 'But Russia must fall apart, but Russia must stop, but Russia must stop'. Possibly it would help keep this evil in check. To be honest, this evil will not go away before it does not cease to exist until the Russian political system really divides into smaller [parts]. Then he wouldn't be so powerfully evil. So here are our options. I cannot agree with what Siim Kallas said a moment ago that we must consider that we are 1,000 times smaller than China, we are 100 times smaller than Russia. This does not mean that we should lose dignity. This does not mean that we should lose our values and abandon them. We have to keep them at all costs. Yeah, I started evil. I was mean, too. I was mad at our good foreign minister today, too, but not because I have something against the Foreign Minister. Of course not. My opposition and evil comes from what is happening in our foreign policy, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is running, or how he is being led. Well, that's the question of whether he's in charge or whether he's in charge. And in a situation where we are actually surrounded by evil forces, where a few thousand kilometers away there is a very large military force ready to go to Ukraine at any moment. But maybe they're not ready to go, we don't know that. Evil, like I said, doesn't disappear. There is now a situation where we have a government that consists of two sides. On one side, we have a party, I cannot leave it like a mantra, who has been punished repeatedly for a crime. I do respect all the colleagues here who are in this criminal party, as people, I have nothing against you. But the party as such is wrong because it is unconstitutional. And this party has entered into a cooperation agreement with the same evil country that allegedly doesn't work, but it's valid. Legally, it is perfectly valid, and it states that information is exchanged. We never know when this exchange of information will get to a place we no longer control. It's one of the government's side. But the other half of the government, in the form of a Reform Party, has shown its dilettante economic policy very clearly over the last year. He has shown how stability in society can be replaced by destruction, [and has been] politically quite short-sighted. In this situation, in this politically very difficult situation, representatives of one of our governments are negotiating negotiations with the same evil empire on how to conclude a new border treaty. This is extremely, deeply absurd. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is therefore necessary for us to have legal clarity. I ask: what legal clarity? How has this legal clarity helped Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia or even us, Estonia, who, by the way, has a completely valid border treaty, which is enshrined in § 122 of the Constitution? How does that help? It's not helping. It is a toothless foreign policy, it is a toothless foreign policy both towards the European Union and towards Russia, that is something I am not going to talk about at all. What, then, can we say about this situation? In fact, there are only two options in this situation, two realistic and sensible ones. It's best this government leaves. And the least that this government can do as it stands is to recall the signature of the border treaty with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-15_U189	Thank you. Now, there's no more calls. So I'm closing the negotiations. I would like very much to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which launched the foreign policy debate, the chairman of the committee, the members of the committee, the officials of the Commission as a key national issue. Thank you. Thank you to the Foreign Minister and his colleagues. Thank you for joining the members of the Riigikogu and for those who visited this session online! The Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the discussion of a crucial national issue, so today's session is closed. Thank you and have a successful work week!
