ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the additional session of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 1 March. It has been convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of the Management Board of the Riigikogu today and the prepared agenda of the Management Board. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please welcome the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, There is a wide-ranging war going on in Europe, destroying the Ukrainian state, killing innocent people. However, I am pleased to note that the people of Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs have been very good, compassionate, sympathetic and active, and have contributed financially and with humanitarian aid to supporting Ukraine. This is absolutely necessary because it is extremely expensive to participate in such a large war. It was also extremely expensive for the Ukrainian state and the people. We need to show solidarity with them now and help them in every way we can, given our possibilities. And that is what the people of Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs have done. But the current Estonian legislation restricts the granting of aid free of tax to support Ukraine. Therefore, the Group of the Fatherland submits a [draft] law amending the Income Tax Act to support Ukraine and aims to exempt donations intended to support Ukraine from income tax. In short, the content of the draft is that a legal person resident of [Estonia] will not pay income tax in support of the freedom struggle in Ukraine, in support of Ukrainian war refugees, in support of Ukrainian humanitarian aid and in support of the reconstruction of Ukraine, if the donations have been made to an account to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Estonia until 24 February 2023. The draft provides for the retroactive exemption of donations from income tax from the beginning of the war. I hope that the Riigikogu will process and support this draft as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U3	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U4	Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, We are all following with concern and attention the Russian attack war that is currently going against the freedom of the Ukrainian people. Parliament adopted a declaration in January this year in support of Ukraine's independence and independence. Last week, before the launch of a full-scale military attack, Parliament condemned Russia's planned war on aggression and expressed its unequivocal support for Ukraine. At the weekend, we proposed that Parliament should meet at an extraordinary session with the aim of adopting a statement, of making an additional appeal to the representatives of the peoples of countries that have considered it possible to impose sanctions against [Russia] and to join the sanctions policies of the Western countries, in order to emphasise that the sanctions policy that has been implemented so far has, unfortunately, not been comprehensive and complete. Today, literally on the days of the war, large-scale trade between Western countries and Russia is actually taking place. It is therefore our proposal that, during today's parliamentary meeting, it be very sensible to hear the information of the Minister of Defence and the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on National Defence. In these critical days, we must send a signal to all our friends that we must act and work even harder. Russia needs to be completely isolated from world trade and a full trade embargo imposed on it. In addition, we propose a number of other practical steps in this referral project. We hope that we in Parliament will be able to deal with and adopt this appeal without delay today. This is the least we can do as legislator in our positions and declarations in these critical hours in support of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U5	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and we decide to deal with them further in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U6	77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24. Now we have the agenda approval. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. On the agenda of the additional session, a discussion of a key national issue, "European security situation regarding Russia's aggression against Ukraine," initiated by the Committee on National Defence. The agenda for confirmation has been distributed to your desks. Siim Kallas, please! [[A voice from the hall.]] Got it. Now we must vote on this agenda. I will begin the preparation of the vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the agenda for the supplementary sitting of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on 1 March. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U7	With the result of 77 votes against and no abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U8	We are now proceeding with our first item on the agenda, which is the debate on a key national issue, the European security situation regarding Russia's aggression against Ukraine, initiated by the Committee on National Defence. Let me briefly present the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. In particular, the procedure for discussing the key national issue of the "European security situation in relation to Russia's aggression against Ukraine." First of all, the Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet's presentation, up to 15 minutes, and then there are questions and answers, up to 20 minutes. Then Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will give a presentation for up to 10 minutes, and then questions and answers again, up to 10 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask one question to each of the rapporteurs. After that, there's been a negotiation. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. The initiator of the debate has proposed that political group representatives speak first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would like Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My report basically consists of three parts. In the introduction [I speak], what is the situation that has happened, in the second part I want to talk about how we have helped Ukraine, and in the third, how Estonia is protected or how we want to protect Estonia. Russia started a war of aggression against Ukraine six days ago, on Estonia's birthday, the moment when the UN Security Council's emergency meeting on Ukraine began in New York. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is obviously not a coincidence in time to make sure that the Putin regime has contempt for international law and national legal equality, but also in the capacity of an organisation created to secure global peace, as long as Russia has the right to veto. Since December, it has been shown that Russia is not contributing to diplomacy by presenting completely unrealistic ultimatums instead of sensible proposals. The Putin regime was preparing for years of aggression against Ukraine. The suppression and brainwashing of Russians, the so-called integration of Belarus and the rescue of the Lukashenko regime by brutal means, the preparation of the closure of the Russian information space, even the construction of Nord Stream 2 to increase Europe's gas dependency, all of these steps fall under this heading. The whole political game revolved around Vladimir Putin until the beginning of the aggression war. Putin then turned the free world against him, starting a brutal, full - scale war against free Ukraine. The "referendum" carried out under Kremlin's command allows the transfer of nuclear weapons to Belarus, which has become a de facto region. Russia is frightening by nuclear weapons in order to strengthen its political position. This is a new reality. But only at the moment, because the coming weeks and months seem to bring about much greater changes. Ukraine is fighting not only for itself, but for all of us, the free world. Putin's regime and his war machine are increasingly on the verge of defeat. We need to maintain established dynamics. Russia has made threats to Finland and Sweden not to join NATO. Finland and Sweden do not apply for NATO membership, but together we are implementing the so-called reinforced communication modality that is necessary in the situation. This means additional meetings, intelligence exchange, as well as information on operations and strategic communication. What are we doing to support Ukraine? Estonia was one of the first European countries that decided already in December to provide arms assistance to Ukraine. We did so in cooperation with the United States, the United Kingdom, Latvia and Lithuania. The first batch of anti-tank missiles delivered by Estonia Javelin arrived in Ukraine on 18 February, before the war broke out. Estonia will continue to provide both lethal and non-lethal military assistance to Ukraine. We intend to provide additional Javelin anti-tank missiles, 122-millimeter hatchets with ammunition, other available Soviet calibre ammunition in Estonia, thousands of helmets, hundreds of bullet jackets, tens of thousands of Defence Forces food packs and medical accessories. We also intend to hand over to Ukraine in the near future a mobile field hospital prepared in Estonia in cooperation with Germany. The list of planned aid to Ukraine is not exhaustive; it is constantly increasing, I would dare say, even in real hours. Ukraine has received and offered military assistance from the United States, Canada and 19 European countries. The foreign ministers of the European Union decided that EUR 450 million of the European Peace Facility would be allocated to the acquisition and provision of killing armaments and EUR 50 million to Ukraine. We diplomaticly support Ukraine's accession to the European Union as a candidate country. This country is now bravely fighting for Europe as a whole and for our shared democratic values. This action confirms that Ukraine deserves to become a member of the single European Union. Dear listeners, The Estonian Government and the Defence Forces have recently taken several necessary steps to ensure further security in Estonia. First. NATO's defence plans were activated at the request of the North Atlantic Alliance's allies and NATO's European Commander-in-Chief. The Alliance will make further preparations to move its particularly high-ready units, VJTF, as needed. The Commander-in-Chief of NATO European Forces has the right and flexibility to do so. NATO has additional preparedness units, the readiness of which has also been raised. Second. In the early morning of 24 February, the Estonian Government requested consultations with Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and other eastern wing countries on the basis of Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty. The allies have already brought and are bringing more deterrence troops to the eastern wing of NATO, including Estonia. We have started to rapidly strengthen NATO's deterrence and defence stance on the eastern wing. Long-term decisions will be prepared in the coming weeks and months. The military presence of the allies in Estonia will double for at least the next two or three months. A whole battalion, some 900 people, will be added to the British contingent in NATO's predestined battle group. I will meet with the British contingent today in Tapa with the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. According to preliminary information, France plans to continue its participation in the battle group with a company-size unit for up to 300 people during the same period. As mentioned above, the Danish company is likely to have 250 additional people in the order of magnitude. Three U.S. F-35 fighter planes have already arrived at the Ämari. Canada also decided to double its military presence in Latvia, bringing more 460 soldiers. Germany will also increase its contribution by 350 soldiers to the eFP battle group in Lithuania. The US will significantly increase its presence on NATO's eastern wing. Battalion-sized units will be moved to Latvia or Lithuania. More than 4700 soldiers and 16 F-15 fighter planes have been moved to Poland. In addition, eight F-35 fighter planes, three of which are directed to Estonia, as I mentioned, and 22 Apache helicopters to Latvia. Three. Estonia is ready to fulfil its allied duties in NATO readiness units according to the mandate given by the Riigikogu, or you. The decision submitted by the Government and confirmed by the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' allows to contribute to the composition of NATO preparedness units with up to 280 Defence Forces. In the first half of this year, Estonia plans to contribute to the NRF, or reaction forces, with a mine hunter in NATO's first permanent mine control group and throughout the year with the commander and staff of the mine control group. We also contribute with staff officers to the management of the Air Force and special operations task force and staff officers in the special operations unit, with a total of up to 80 members of the Defence Forces. Estonia also contributes to NATO's readiness initiative since the beginning of 2021. Four. Estonia also participates in the cooperation of the UK-led Joint Expedition Force JEF, where in addition to UK, nine countries in the region are participating: the Nordic and Baltic countries and the Netherlands. Cooperation within the framework of JEF is important for Estonia, because, on the basis of a joint decision by the Member States, the focus of JEF is to ensure security in the Baltic Sea region, the High North and the Atlantic region, thereby directly strengthening protection and deterrence in the Baltic States. JEF is a coalition of will, which means that each Member State decides on its participation or non-participation in JEF's activities in a sovereign way. Estonia has the mandate of the Riigikogu to contribute to this year with up to 24 members of the Defence Forces. Five. The recent additional security allocation by the Government of the Republic added some 340 million euros to the Ministry of Defence's area of government over four years, 2022 to 2025. The lion's share of the financial separation falls into the next and the following years: EUR 99,7 million and EUR 204,2 million respectively. These funds are used to acquire ammunition supplies to nearly all military weapon systems. A large number of supply contracts have already been concluded. By April all supply contracts have been concluded and ammunition will reach Estonia in 2023 and 2024 respectively. Six. In mid-February, the Ministry of Defence launched the Crisis Staff Steering Group, which meets on a daily basis. This crisis headquarters steering group includes representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and other ministries, as appropriate. The Defence Forces have reviewed the protection plans and carried out a notification to the structural units in order to respond as soon as possible to an increase in the threat. The need to raise alert levels has also been reviewed and assessed. The Defence Forces have made preparations for the reception of incoming and incoming allies. The Defence League, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, has agreed on possible support activities at the Estonian external borders as immigration grows exponentially. To sum it up. The war may continue longer because Putin Russia is not willing to sign a peace agreement as a loser. Our task is to make the damage to Putin's Russia to this military invasion as painful as possible. The massive support of Ukraine, politically, economically and militarily, will save Ukraine's statehood and independence, as well as increasing our security and European security. NATO allies significantly strengthen defence and deterrence on the eastern wing. And I dare say clearly from my senses that allies are stronger than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U10	Dear Minister of Defence, thank you. You have questions too. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A few days ago, I asked the Foreign Minister in the Chamber of the Riigikogu where people would get adequate information. The war was predictable then. But today, this question is more important than ever. Fortunately, most channels spreading false information are now closed in Estonia. But what does Estonia do to inform the people in other languages, and is there any way we can communicate the truth about the events to the Russian people? And for information: do you know that on the weekend's family day in Rakvere, red leaflets containing false information were already distributed in Rakvere Castle?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U12	Thank you for that question. We live in an information age, and information operations are absolutely everyday. We know that access to Russian propaganda channels in the Estonian media area is closed. We also know that the government decided, in principle, to support Estonian National Broadcasting and also private channels with additional money in order to provide as objective information as possible to Russian-speaking people. We do press briefings every day, both in the Department of Defense and in the government. Yes, we have to admit that press briefings are largely attended by journalists who speak and write in Estonian, there are fewer journalists who write and speak in Russian, their editorial activities are less involved. Their justification has generally been that they do not have sufficient resources because they are small-scale. But it is certainly one of the key activities that we can provide objective information to our Russian-speaking people living in Estonia. And, of course, [must] also use all the channels [through which] we can objectively inform people living in Russia in the east.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U13	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U14	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The first part of the question is whether we have also requested the revision of the Polish-Baltic defence plans in the NATO defence plan scheme due to the changed threat situation. Secondly, the one-off decisions taken by the United States, the various countries in this coalition, the European Union in the financing of its peace facility, are very welcome. But it is clear that in the acute phase of this war, there is an enormous amount of ammo going on. Are there any proposals that would make these arms allocations a so-called permanent functioning system? There may be seemingly large-scale allocations, hundreds of millions of euros and so, but in fact, additional ammo or weapons may be needed immediately, because it will inevitably be destroyed in battle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U15	Thank you. I forgot my first question. I started with the second question... [[A voice from the hall.]] Ah, defense plans. Yes, the defence plans are all on the table, and today we also have SACEUR, the Commander-in-Chief of NATO European Forces, in Estonia. Indeed, the most important thing here is whether the plans that have been prepared in the past correspond to today's situation or whether they need to be reviewed again. This work is currently taking place at all levels. Secondly, with regard to the whole issue of ammunition and how to help Ukraine with ammunition and weapons at all, on Sunday night we had the VTC, where Europe and practically [all] countries of the world were called and asked very straightly, it was under the leadership of the British, asking directly how much and with which a particular country could help. It was in this sense the first time for me, when it was very clearly asked, let's not talk about any general talk, [but let's just say directly that] how much Estonia will give, how much Latvia will give and how much Lithuania will give, when it will give and how it will give. It is a question of states' declarations of will of how much Ukraine is actually being helped. I come back to this theme of the Peace Facility, 450 million. After all, the point is that, in some respects, Member States are able to ask for the set-off of military assistance they have provided, or in other words, in order to acquire new ammunition or weapons, it is possible to obtain support from them. Is and how should it be structured in the longer term? Here I have the same question that if we centrally build it, for example through the European Commission, this whole process, I can imagine, is a shameless long one. But, of course, it has to do with how long the war really lasts and how long this acute situation is really coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U16	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U17	Thank you. It is clear that, in today's situation, we need to contribute significantly more to our national defence. The 380 million that has been mentioned is far from sufficient. In this regard, I ask why the government has not come to the Riigikogu with either this amount or the larger amounts, with an additional budget. Why hasn't it been done? Is it even planned to be done and when? And secondly, how is all the help that Ukraine has been promised logistically [to be delivered]? Is it possible to transfer it to Ukraine where it is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U18	Thank you for these questions and comments. I'm gonna start at the back. The Ministry of Defence is basically responsible for delivering the weapon. Logistically moved to Poland and from Poland delivered it... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, but the information on how Ukraine is being transported inside has not been shared with us by Ukraine. There are certainly very clear security reasons. Similarly, we do not publicly state how, how or on what date we will deliver some kind of burden or cargo to Poland in order to ensure integrity and minimise risks. As far as the contribution to national defence is concerned, I do believe that, in view of the existing situation, there will be [to do so] in the near future. I certainly don't know any particular date. Very much depends on the fact that our specialists have carried out an analysis on the basis of today's war: what is the need, what kind of help [will be desired], what capacity needs to be increased most and how quickly we can increase it. Then we will definitely come to the Riigikogu with it. Today we say that we are hypothetically allocating some amount of X, and then we will start to look at what we are spending it on, but we would not like to suggest this behaviour to the Riigikogu. If we come, we will come on the basis of a specific analysis and with concrete proposals on how to allocate national taxpayers [for money] from the state budget to national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U19	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U20	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. During these days, I have been communicating with a lot of people, especially non-Estonians, and trying to explain their minds and turn them around a little bit, because we have a lot of other languages and people in the [Music] information room in Ida-Viru County. In the course of this, I have come across a number of young men who are actually Ukrainian and are very strongly pro-Ukrainian. But when I ask you what you're doing here, they say they're working. We know that Ukraine has called all men aged 18 to 60 under mobilization. And now we are facing such a dilemma here that we are giving work to the young Ukrainian men who should go to Ukraine to protect their country. And another thing. When I listen to the debates, I hear that our universities are going to welcome young people from Ukraine, many of whom are young men. What can we do to bring these men together and send them to Ukraine for their duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U21	The quick answer, according to my sense, is that we do not have any legal basis to collect them and send them to Ukraine, if they have all the documents for their stay in Estonia, according to the Estonian legal space. Well, the only way is to explain to them that you have to make a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U22	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the current war situation, we have had a new practical experience. It has already been said here that it is likely that several plans and development plans will need to be reviewed, supplemented and amended. This must also concern Estonia. Please tell us whether the Ministry of Defence and the current government are ready to review the plan in this plan as well, that the many capabilities that we need to develop are not yet sufficiently developed, so we are ready to develop it earlier and much faster. This requires additional financial resources. Will the government be [ready] to implement them, and will you also support, take emergency defense loans if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U24	Thank you. I absolutely believe that, in the existing situation, we need to review our capabilities in the 10-year period and in the same way in the four-year period, so that what specific activities could or should be brought forward. But it needs to be done on the basis of a very specific analysis. We shouldn't go off the hip and change anything today because there's a war going on in Ukraine. We know what tactics, what powers Russia has used in the first five days. But what the final results will be, what powers they will use in the future, and which direction we need to move in, we are already working on. This means, as I replied to Mr Põllea's question, that one day the government will come before the Riigikogu with its proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U25	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U26	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, It's very nice to know that a lot of Russian propaganda cannons have been shut down. War propaganda is known to be a crime under our penal code. But what's interesting is that the whole board drives on Sputnik Media, which is full of a mad propaganda of war, sputnik-media.ee. Here I read about how the one-party bad system ended in 1940, was replaced by democratic elections in the summer and happily entered the Soviet Union. That's a page full of texts. Are we gonna sling that raw propaganda of war more? And do you have a chance to get involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U27	Thank you for this question and for your comment. The law enforcement authorities must certainly take this information on the table and make it clear what it is. If they... There's nothing funny about this. It's a very serious story.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U28	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U29	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Ukraine has addressed the Western countries with a request for assistance to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine. This is extremely important as it would help prevent civilian casualties as well as victims among Ukrainian soldiers and perhaps the fall of the most important Ukrainian cities. At the same time, several NATO Heads of State have said that there will certainly be no intervention in Ukraine. In my opinion, these are false statements, whether or not because NATO refused to submit to Russia's demand that Ukraine should not become a NATO member, and through this it encouraged Ukraine's resistance and indicated that Ukraine would not be left alone. When you meet your NATO colleagues, can you tell them that it is extremely important for Estonia that Ukraine's requests for help be heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U30	Thank you for your comment and your prayer. I will certainly convey to my NATO colleagues the wish that Ukraine's requests for help be heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U31	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to come up with a subject such as population protection. With regard to Ukraine's war, we all think about what happens when Estonia is attacked: how should we act, where should we hide when bombs explode? We don't have metros. EKRE already raised the issue of population protection in the previous Riigikogu, but our leaders at the time said that there was no need for this, because there will be no war. However, the current situation has proven that we should start thinking about it as a matter of urgency. The issue of building shelters will not be on the government table until the end of this year. When they will be built, where [they will be built] and when they will be completed, there will be no plan. We know, in fact, that warheads don't wait for our shelters to be finished. And no specific instructions to people on how to act in this or another situation, either. That is very unfortunate, because if things are to get really bad, we will pay a very expensive price on people's lives. Could you reassure the Estonian people by saying that you are already acting, not mapping or analysing anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U33	Thank you for this question and for your comment. As far as the protection of the population is concerned, yesterday we had a phone conversation with the Minister of the Interior on the same subject. [Here are] two sides. The first half is to inform people how to act when there are threats. I am pleased to note that this morning the Director-General of the Rescue Board was already on national broadcasting television and provided information. And I come back again to what concerns the wider protection of the population, that the war that we are currently experiencing must give us a very clear direction in terms of the future, how we should better protect our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U34	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U35	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Last autumn, the incumbent government came before us with a plan to reduce defence costs. Fortunately, instruments were finally found. You have desperately tried to explain how the higher absolute numbers are larger and the smaller ones are, as everyone in this House knew. Fortunately, as a result, defence costs did not decrease from GDP, even though you had a plan for the first time. I want to know what is currently being discussed with regard to defence costs and what is the plan in the context of the state budget for next year and next years, because it seems too long foresight, unfortunately, given the debate last year, there has not been.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U36	Thank you for that comment. I will continue to stick to my words and views that we did not intend to reduce the amount spent on national defence. Today, as I reported to you, there are three main directions, or rather two main directions, which we are working on. [One] is how to help Ukraine. There's a war going on for the sixth day. The second main direction is how to strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities and the entire eastern wing of NATO. This time will certainly come, and hopefully very soon, [when we start discussing] how we need to improve Estonia's defence capabilities, what financial resources and what military capabilities. This time will come for sure. We will come to you on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U37	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U38	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you about the deadly [weapon] aid we've given to Javelin missiles and howitzers. They have to be replaced at some point. We have to buy something for ourselves. Is it meant to be, precisely on the financial side, and what could it mean on a timetable?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U39	Thank you, good Aivar, for this question. We've been thinking about all these things. As I said, contracts have also been concluded, there are framework agreements and supply contracts. So what we've given up and what we're about to give up will all be replaced so that our own defense doesn't weaken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U40	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U41	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, Europe is sad to say, but in a sense, thanks to the aggressor's move, he has taken himself seriously and acknowledged what he has not really wanted to admit for a long time. Germany has taken a clear position to increase its defence expenditure relative to GDP. Estonia's defence capabilities have been grown all along, and we have certainly improved. But we also know that every time people in the field have said that there are gaps of ability and that they should be dealt with more. Question to you: when will we still be able to hear in Parliament that we are significantly increasing our defence against GDP? This is actually an important political decision that should be taken now and now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U42	Thank you for that question. Indeed, Europe and the world have changed since 24 February. In the case of Germany, even if, 48 hours ago, perhaps some German politicians thought that this decision could not be made in Germany, the decision has been made today. Germany has completely changed its political direction, not to mention the unity that actually prevails among the Member States of the European Union. I have been communicating with dozens of defence ministers in different formats over the last week and it is very interesting to see the attitude of these countries during this period. The transformation has been extremely fast. It's super fast! Even if the same authorisation to donate how long it lasted, how long it was rolled on one side of Germany's domestic policy. But then the decision came! Finland was so clever that it gave me its position before that, when the German decision was not yet known to me. We asked Sweden exactly the same thing. I called the Swedish Minister of Defence at noon on Sunday, and by 4:00 p.m. in the evening there was a parliamentary decision. It is not the decision of the Minister of Defence, it is the decision of the Swedish Parliament! Now, coming back to the financing of all national defence, I believe that national defence funding cannot take place on the surface of emotions. We must have a very clear understanding of what limitations we really have in order to cope with today's war. The best knowledge and experience we can get from the ongoing war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U43	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Defense! You are a minister of the Cabinet, and you will probably be able to answer this not particularly military question, which I am very concerned about and interested in. Does the government also intend to come up with drafts concerning the subject of people arriving here, war refugees, and bring these legislative changes to the Riigikogu? For example, how are general health insurance for those who come here, certain employment opportunities, pay opportunities? There's a lot of these things. What's the next step? Already a hundred war refugees have reached Estonia and more will come. Local authorities are already facing these issues today and need a clear message on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U45	Thank you. I cannot tell you at what stage there could be some kind of bill today, but we have discussed very clearly the same points of pain that you have just highlighted in the cabinet. We have to deal with them and, accordingly, we have to correct both the legal framework and the practical side. I believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs, along with all its officials, is working on this topic on a daily basis, because the Minister of Social Affairs has been very initiativeful to keep these topics in the government office. Unfortunately, I don't know what to say exactly, but I know these issues are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U46	Minister, thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for questions and answers has come to an end. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U48	I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners-viewers who are watching this session outside this hall! On 24 February, when many of us were preparing to participate in the flag-shooting celebration of the Estonian birthday party at Toompea, we unfortunately woke up with incredibly tragic news: a full-scale war had begun in Europe. Although we had been warned by the competent authorities, both in secure premises and through the leaking of information from public media, in particular U.S. intelligence, that Russia could attack Ukraine, the realisation of this unreasonable opportunity was still a shock to the whole world. Although the Riigikogu was about to open a session-free week, on Sunday all members of the National Defence Committee met at an emergency meeting. Today we have come here to discuss the security situation in Europe in relation to Russia's six-day military action against Ukraine. This action in Ukraine is illegal and unwarranted. We have seen in the media how Russian armed forces violate the Geneva Conventions of International Humanitarian Law and their additional protocols by attacking vulnerable persons and shooting civilian objects such as homes and hospitals marked with a red cross. The Prosecutor General of the International Criminal Court, Khan, announced yesterday that he had decided to open an investigation into the situation in Ukraine as soon as possible. In his view, there is reason to believe that war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in the course of military action. Russia is not a member of the International Criminal Court and has obstructed the work of this court in the past, but war crimes can also be dealt with in absentia if necessary and thus give an international moral assessment of possible war crimes. Pursuant to Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, Ukraine has an inalienable right to individual or collective self-defence until the Security Council takes the necessary measures to preserve international peace and security. Unfortunately, in the course of this war, we have already seen Russia abuse its veto rights in the UN Security Council. Three generations ago in Europe and finally, Germany, which started the war all over the world, is still not a permanent member of the UN Security Council. Estonia could raise a similar issue in the world organisation with regard to Russia acting as an aggressor. The least that the UN should do is fundamentally restructure the work of the Security Council. It is no longer conceivable that Russia, using its veto right, could reject any progressive and constructive proposal. Although everyone's eyes are constantly in Ukraine at the moment, and Belarus is only viewed as a possible force transfer to Ukraine, I would like to state that the world has virtually forgotten that, in the current situation, dictator Lukashenko has remained dependent on Russia in order to keep his regime in power, essentially eraseing independent Belarus from the world map. Belarus, practically becoming part of Russia, with Russian units inside, is further increasing the security threat to the Baltic States and Poland. This is an additional threat that allies will have to deal with in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, NATO's allies have acted quickly in recent weeks. At the request of the Baltic States and Poland, consultations were launched on the basis of Article 4 of the NATO Treaty and decisions were taken on the launch of defence plans. NATO machinery works and allies are actively strengthening NATO's eastern wing. As the Minister of Defence explained in detail in his speech, the first reinforcements sent by Estonia's good allies have already arrived. With regard to regional security, it is to be welcomed that NATO is stepping up the exchange of information with Finland and Sweden. I am pleased to stress that there is also a full consensus between the European Union's parliaments on the assessment of the current security situation and on the need for joint action. The European Union Parliamentary Conference on Foreign and Security Policy and Security and Defence Policy held in Paris at the end of last week had a rare consensus and absolute clarity on the need to support Ukraine and stop Russia's unjustified aggression. As the conference began on the first day of the war, the entire long-prepared agenda was cancelled and the whole event was dedicated to Ukraine's support topics. As regards the parliamentary dimension, I also bring out the statements that have already been adopted today by many European Parliaments in support of Ukraine, and I congratulate all the colleagues of the Riigikogu for its good and swift action. Our statement was robust, explicit and perhaps helped to set the tone of colleagues in other countries as well. We will maintain this unity and this bond, both nationally and internationally. Today we see that the exceptionally impressive bravery and tough resistance of the Ukrainians have aroused the fundamental values of Europeans and are once again ready to defend freedom and democracy decisively. There are statements all over Europe about how the Ukrainian war is also our war. The blood of the Ukrainians also protects our freedom and democracy. Europeans are at last forced to overcome their commercial and economic interests, which so far have prevented certain sanctions from being imposed, but also those of historical backgrounds, and have again found the courage to strengthen their protection. The unshadowed invasion of Ukraine by the bombing and massive forces of the Russian forces has encouraged the European Union and the rest of the democratic countries to act significantly more vigorously. In particular, this was an unprecedented expression of the tightening of the sanctions regime towards Russia, but there is an increasing pressure on Belarus, which is directly supporting Russia in the military campaign. Sanctions from the European Union, the USA, the United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, South Korea and other countries are clear signals to Russia and a statement of support to Ukraine. Restricting access to Russia's SWIFT and freezing the central bank's assets are a severe blow to the Russian economy. With dozens and hundreds of thousands of participants in the world, we see demonstrations of support for brave Ukraine, but no such demonstration has come to our attention to support Russia's steps. The masks have fallen, and it is clear to the whole world who is the aggressor and who is the victim. In just a few days, there have been active and decisive developments at the level of both the European Union and many Member States. Ukraine has military equipment, humanitarian aid, fuel or financial support to assist almost all of Europe, as well as many other, more distant countries. On Sunday, the leaders of the European Union announced that Ukraine would receive €450 million through the European Peace Facility, which was so far largely designed to help Africa. In addition, there was a consensus among the Member States to shut down the European Union's airspace for Russian aircraft and their flights. The removal of the propaganda channels RT and Sputnik from the spread of European countries and the general fight against disinformation were also supported. These are steps that you couldn't have imagined a week ago. In Europe's richest country, Germany, there has been a leap in security policy within a week, which, under normal circumstances, would perhaps have taken a few decades. Germany, which has long referred to its history and has preferred to finance national defence with caution and a rather long tooth, decided on the weekend that the level of defence expenditure agreed between NATO allies would be 2% of domestic production as early as next year and, in addition, EUR 100 billion will be invested in defence costs this year. So far, with pacifistic attitudes, Germany's decision to send 1000 anti-tank weapons and 5000 Stinger-type short-range missiles to Ukraine is unprecedented, so that Ukrainians can fight them against the Putin army. We are hearing more and more of these decisions from other countries, which are incredible so far, but are already in the mainstream today. I am now referring to the extraordinary session of the Committee on National Defence on Sunday, and I am quoting the good colleagues who have pointed out that we, too, have ample reason for analysis and new decisions over the course of this debate and the next weeks and months. Solidarity with Ukraine and possible full support for the victims of aggression are self-evident, but we also need to think carefully about the conclusions that we must draw from the current situation in order to strengthen Estonia's security and readiness. The National Defence Committee has recognised the Government's efforts to increase defence expenditure and also welcomed the recent decision to contribute an additional 380 million euros to Estonia's security. Our defence expenditures have never been so high, but we must say that, in an exceptional security situation, it is inevitable that defence costs will be increased further, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of gross domestic product. On 16 September 2020, the Committee on National Defence stressed in its statement that structural changes and existing capacity gaps need to be reduced, if necessary, with the help of a loan, in order to develop defence capabilities. It is not reasonable to create new major capacity developments, such as the creation of medium-range anti-aircraft capabilities repeatedly highlighted by our Commission as a priority, at the expense of limiting or cutting existing capabilities. Thank you for listening. Good luck to Ukraine in defending democracy in its country and country and in Europe as a whole! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U50	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U51	Thank you, Honourable Chairman of the Commission. I fully agree with you that the current unity between the allies is extraordinary and also the decisions taken by the European Union concerning both sanctions and aid to Ukraine. But has the Committee on National Defence, now that you have discussed the situation in Ukraine, come to the conclusion that we have implemented all possible sanctions and provided Ukraine with assistance that can be provided jointly by the Western countries, and nothing more can be done? Or have there been proposals in the Committee on National Defence to make sanctions even more robust and to provide much more assistance than has been the case so far? And if there have been any suggestions, what have these proposals been, what else could be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U52	Yes, thank you for your question. Of course, we have discussed and, of course, we support those sanctions that have already been adopted by Russia. And you know that there will be more of these sanctions every day. I would also stress once again the consensus of the National Defence Committee that Estonia should, in our opinion, make an effort to implement the National Defence Development Plan even faster for the period 2022 to 2031. To this end, we believe that the plan should be supplemented in the context of the country's budgetary strategy process and that the percentage of planned defence expenditure should be increased compared to the current budgetary strategy for 2022 to 2025. I was talking about taking out a defense loan, as well as the logic of an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U53	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U54	Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! Support for Ukraine through technology and armaments is, of course, a serious matter, but I am still addressing the same question to you, which I asked the Minister. The question is, if technology is and weaponry is, but there are no people, then technology and weaponry aren't much use. If we look at these people now, these young men who are part of the mobilization in Ukraine, many of them are here. Would it not be possible for our government to turn to the Ukrainian Government to ask us to help bring together the same people who are looking for opportunities to return to Ukraine, but many simply cannot? And we will help them, gather them together and transport them to Ukraine. This would also contribute to the improvement of human composition. How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U55	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. We members of the Commission receive a wide range of information from public sources, and we also receive information that is not entirely public. I have the impression that this is not a problem with human resources. There are people who want to fight in Ukraine, as well as those who want to help Ukraine. There is a lack of weapons, ammunition, anything else that would help these fighters in battles and, of course, the population. I believe that Estonia has also done quite a lot to do this until the war refugees were brought to Estonia. But we must remember one thing: as a NATO Member State, our possibilities are somewhat limited, because as soon as an Estonian soldier goes to fight in Ukraine, it is not so much an Estonian soldier as a NATO soldier and Russia can draw very resolute conclusions from this. But once again, it seems to us that a great deal has been done to assist Ukraine both militaryly and morally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U56	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the National Defence Commission, Enn Fronta! Indeed, we are holding our first session of the Riigikogu today after the aggressor Russia invaded Ukraine and began a full-scale military activity. Our thoughts begin with our minds and our changing ourselves. I will ask you what your position is. We also have two parliamentary groups in Parliament, one in Estonia-Russia and the other in Estonia-Belarus. When we are talking about breaking diplomatic relations with [Russia], when we are talking about all that has happened in the State Duma, should we also create an instrument in your view so that the [action] of such parliamentary groups can be stopped?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U58	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I know, there's been thoughts like that. As far as the Estonian-Ukraine Parliamentary Group is concerned, in the meantime there was also an initiative that maybe another group should be formed. It's all in our hands, we need to think these things through. The second option is that the Estonian-Ukrainian parliamentary group will change the direction of its activities in view of the war. As far as the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group is concerned, quite a few of our colleagues belong to this group. They have to make their own decision. If the war continues, which is obvious at least for the time being, then probably some things should be re-examined. Such pleasant interaction between Members in the current situation is probably not the best way to continue. However, if there are and will be any such contacts, the opinion of Estonia should be expressed at all levels, the opinion of the European Union and the opinion of NATO should be expressed, which all coincide, fortunately. I would like to emphasise once again: we are criticising the Russian Federation and resolutely opposed to this war, never against the Russian people. Remember, while Estonia was part of the Soviet Union, in many Western countries we were also called not only Soviet people, but even Russians. Yet, we had different thoughts in our hearts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U59	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! I have a question about the civilian casualties that are reaching us through more and more media. We see women and children dying every day in Ukraine, those who are not actively involved in the war. What is your sense, and perhaps also that of the members of the Commission, of establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine? How can this be done, and what other decisions are there? And the other part of the question is: how can the humanitarian missions of the Estonian state to Ukraine be encouraged and whether Ukraine feels the need for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U61	With regard to humanitarian missions, the answer is quite clear and logical: the more, the better. You know that the people of Estonia have also gone to help, for example, to help people coming to the border crossing point from Ukraine. The closure of the airspace is much more complicated. We all know that the airspace of the European Union is closed to Russian aircraft. Russia has responded in the same way. However, here the same problem arises again: NATO. Russia. Ukraine is not a NATO Member State. I believe that they had the opportunity to start this process years ago, but I well remember that the Ukrainians' opinion on NATO was then relatively sceptical. They were quite in agreement with the perspective of being a member of the European Union at one time. As soon as NATO, with its forces, closes airspace, there is confrontation between NATO and Russia, and this is a little more serious than the current war, which is, of course, also tragic. We know that Mr Borrell has proposed that warplanes be sent to Ukraine. But we also need to know that some military aircraft from other countries are of such a complex design that Ukrainian pilots may have to spend a few weeks at seminars to learn how to use them. However, there are also countries in the European Union and NATO such as Bulgaria, Slovakia and others, as well as Hungary, which has so-called Russian aircraft. The Ukrainians have the easiest time to get on planes like this and get on them right away. I believe this is the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U62	Dear waitress, the agreed time for questions-answers has just come to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U64	I hope Indrek and Signe can ask Ennu directly. But let's move on with the negotiations. At the beginning of the negotiations, there was an agreement that representatives of the political groups could first appear and then all members of the Riigikogu could take the floor. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group in Leo Kunna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U65	I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U66	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Secretary of Defense! Yes, with the start of this war, the security situation has deteriorated even further compared to what was before. But I will focus my speech on purely military aspects, and my colleague Alar Laneman will deal with broad-based national defence, internal security and population protection. The question is, what should we do? Here are two good examples: Poland is increasing the defence forces of war time from 160000 people to 300,000 people, or almost half, and Germany is setting up a separate fund of $100 billion. Germany's defence budget in 2021 was 47 billion, but after that, Germany's defence costs will remain at 2%. This is, in fact, a very cardinal change in European security policy. So this is where we have the role models. We could have prevented all of this. We made a fundamental mistake about ten years ago when we adopted the so-called "powerful concept of national defence" in quotation marks, and declared those goals that we had in the development plan 2009 to 2018, a paper army that was not needed. Now we can say that we have made a huge mistake, which it is high time to correct. How do you do that? We should improve major power gaps, close them up and significantly increase the military Defence Forces and improve governance, especially in the field of defence. What should we do? First of all, the first priority is mid-range anti-aircraft. In the Ukrainian war, you will see what is happening and what is the significance of it, the pictures speak for themselves. Here's the question: do we do two batteries, three batteries or four? It is clear that just as the Ukrainians are trying to protect the big cities that are bombarded from the air, so we too must do with the Grand-Tallinn room. You can't just let it get smashed because the damage is too big. It costs about 260-360 million if we make four batteries, and then about 15 million more a year to support them. That's the path we're in. Next is the further development of the armoured maneuver's ability or its completion, i.e. the creation of a tank unit. If we have infantry combat vehicles, mobile artillery, we have made great efforts to create this ability, then it is clear that without tanks we cannot simply use it mechanized against a potential opponent. Here again is the question of whether we are going to make the first brigade of one tank company or whether we are going to do two tank companies, or [one] to both brigades, or whether we are going to make the first infantry brigade of the tank battalion. It is also clear that we will not be able to buy new tanks. Now that the British are here to support us and bring in another battle group, it makes sense to ask the British what they do with the rest of their Challenger-2 tanks, which they do not modify the Challenger-3 configuration. Maybe now the British are willing to give us tanks for nothing, but retrofitting will cost 3 to 3.5 million tanks. In the same way, after 10 to 15 million a year, you will be able to support yourself. Now for the escalation of the Wartime Defence Forces. The main part of this, of course, would go to strengthen the defence of the land. The Defence League has a border here. We've got some 9,000+ fighters stationed in wartime positions right now. Even if under the influence of this war the Defence League is growing, there isn't much more to take from here. This means that we must take action to strengthen the Defence Forces reserve, which, fortunately, we have enough. Preparation of the staff is the biggest issue and we have done so, we have prepared at least one tactical group of battalions every year since 2002. We have enough reserves here, we just need to organize them and supply them. We need an additional tactical group of about eight battalions. The most critical place is again the Suur-Tallinn room. There are just too few forces here even to fight the same diversion groups we see in Kiev. And just so they can fight, the infantry alone isn't enough. If we look at these battalion tactical groups, of course we have to take as many resources as we can from the civilian sector here. But if we take more sophisticated weapons systems, each battalion means nine 81 millimeter mortars and nine 120 millimeter mortars and eight Javelin missile complexes with missiles. Of course, we must also turn to the allies to help us build all of this in their arms programmes now. But first we have to put this structure in place. The same plan that I was talking about earlier, 2009 to 2018, was the last plan related to the operational need, the kind of army we could even fight with. The plans that have been made since then have been detracted from it, and that is why they do not respond to the security situation, including the last one, which we only approved in December in the framework of 2.02%. Of course, here, if we want to form tactical groups, we need close-air capability. Defense units are currently out of range, and you'll see what happens in Ukraine. It takes a map to be capable. These very 122-millimeters, when we hand them over to Ukraine, we must replace them with other weapons systems. Each district needs at least one battery. Tallinn District needs two. It's the same with near-air defense: every district needs batteries, the North Guard needs two. The same is true of pioneering: each district needs at least more companies, Tallinn needs more than three, in the worst case two. We also have this resource, to a large extent, in the civil sector. We have a good and powerful construction industry, we can use it all, we use it as much as possible. We also need more military police units to enforce the ban on leaving the country, which we will impose on Ukraine, following the example of Ukraine, when military action breaks out. Who's doing this? The current two military police companies? Probably not. We need to upgrade logistics to support all of this, perhaps to develop district logistics centers. This is going to cost 800 million to 1 billion and, after 2.6% of GDP, maybe more, because today the prices of armaments and ammunition are not going down, but are going up. So these are the decisions we will be facing in the coming weeks. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U68	On behalf of the central fraction, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, My call on behalf of the central faction is as follows. The Republic of Estonia, which has just reached the age of 104, began with a manifesto for all the peoples of Estonia. Today, our country is involved in a vortex of military conflict in Europe. The future of a democratic Europe is at stake. This is the crucial moment for which, more than a hundred years ago, an Estonian poet wrote the following lines: "We stand at the gates of two countries: this one is darkness and the other is light." Ukraine needs and is now receiving both solidarity, or moral support, and material help to defend its independence, its sovereignty. This is not only the conviction of the Centre Party, but also the agenda of the Centre Party. But it is worrying that the border between these two countries, the state of light and the state of darkness will also run through Estonian society. We must not allow our people to be divided. If we allow this, the disciples of darkness created by the Putin regime will have achieved their goal. Our foreign policy message must be addressed to all the peoples of Estonia. Solidarity with Ukraine must unite Estonians, not hit two leaves. Ukraine is fighting in its national interests. There is no need to explain to Estonians how important the dignity of one nation is. This understanding is based on solidarity between Estonia and Ukraine. We have fought our independence with a bloody war of freedom and a bloodless singing revolution. It is now time to stand together in the ranks of Ukrainian supporters and condemn Putin's brutal aggression. Foreign policy paints some European countries' domestic policies predominantly blue-yellow and also white-blue-red. The Estonian people must, above all, maintain their blue-black-white unity, the unity of all the nationalities living in Estonia, which we formulated in the basic document of our country. Again, reiterating the slogan of Gustav Suits: "Let us feed Ukraine, but let us remain Estonians! " Let the ripples of war not obscure our primary constitutional mission to preserve and promote our country! No war must break the existence of our republic and tear society apart. We are going to have a harder life, as is predicted, but if we stick together in spirit, we will be even more viable Estonia [at the end of the war]. The Centre Party urges all Estonians to keep this in mind. Our strength and contribution to democratic social organisation lies in the internal unity of our society. That is why I am pleased that last Friday, 25 February, the Central Group jointly adopted a statement that did not lack the approval of any of our elected members of the Riigikogu. One passage from this statement: "President Vladimir Putin's cruel and unprecedented speech was recorded at a time when many still hoped to reduce tensions through negotiations. The massive attack on Ukraine's state and people using almost all types of weapons, the bombing of cities, including the capital city of Kiev, is an incredible and long-planned aggression that the whole world must condemn. International courts must give their expert opinion on these monstrous events. Hundreds of people have already died in the attacks and have been killed in battle. " In this context of the declaration made in the unity of the central group, the future of the Republic of Estonia is of great value. Please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U70	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U71	I'll have eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U72	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Europe is going to have the biggest war since World War II. The reasons for this are very different, but one reason is certainly that the Western world has been naive to the Putin regime, and that also concerns us. Consider how difficult it has been for NATO Member States to achieve a 2% level of expenditure. Consider what Europe's own defence capabilities are and what the defence capabilities of European countries are, separately, and how important we have considered it in practice. And [let's] think about the discussions and disputes of the current government last year when drawing up the country's budget strategy, whether or not to reduce national defence spending. But you have to learn from mistakes, even afterwards, and every crisis teaches, war especially. From the Russian-Ukraine war, we too must first draw the right conclusions and then make the right choices. Understanding here alone is not enough; determination is also needed. Helping and protecting Ukraine is helping and protecting Europe as a whole. How did Russia reach the Ukrainian war? Still step by step, when the Western countries, with their soft diplomacy and pragmatic economic policies, left value-based policies, as well as security policies, in the background. Consider: Georgia, including Moldova, actually, Crimea, Donbass, Syria, Armenia, now all of Ukraine. Isn't that convincing and systematic? These have been the steps of Putin Russia. Yes, Ukraine's aggression is not the whole war of the Russian people, certainly not. But it's not just Putin's war either. Putin also has roots, and they are deep in the imperialist thinking world of the Russian-Soviet, chauvinist and imperialist thinking is not only carried by Putin in Russia. Let us not be naive again, let us learn from history. In fact, we need to think even more broadly: what are Russia's and China's strategic interests and policies, what are their current ambitions for reforming world policy? Russia's war against Ukraine. If Russia and Belarus achieve their goals, then the Putin regime's border and the immediate military threat will move closer to the heart of Europe and to the Polish, Lithuanian and Latvian borders in full. This is an expression on the map of the redrawing of Putin's European security architecture, but the actual content is even deeper and more ambitious. What can we do in this situation and what must we do in this situation, now and now? Of course, sanctions, which have been very much discussed. And there is a right for those who say that the allies are more united here than ever before. This also applies to the European Union. We have indeed made the right choices in the right direction. But it's not enough. For example, the SWIFT system, the suspension of the payment system, has not been complete but only partial. We have not implemented a full trade embargo on Russia and Belarus. Trade in oil, gas, metals and many other goods will continue, and thus Russia's funding will also contribute to the war with Ukraine. We still have room to rethink diplomatic, cultural, sporting and other relations with Russia and Belarus. Very much has been said about the possible closure of airspace over Ukraine, or at least the attempt to do so, and this would contribute to the delivery of humanitarian aid to Ukraine. [To be considered] suspension of Russia's membership in international organisations and much more. And, of course, comprehensive assistance to Ukraine just about military assistance, arms, humanitarian aid, economic aid just as well as political and diplomatic decisions regarding Ukraine's perspective in the European Union and NATO. We must implement all these measures forcefully and quickly, even if it is accompanied by a decline in the well-being of the western countries themselves and by [following] economic setbacks. NATO's eastern wing [must] be strengthened with its allies, which must inevitably include strengthening Estonia's own defence capabilities and closing the power gaps. We need to implement significantly faster the activities foreseen in the national defence plan, probably a number of plans and plans, and take on the necessary national defence loan if not otherwise. This is a favourable moment for making such decisions, and our allies certainly understand that in the present situation. We are making the correct and long-term conclusions of the attempt to destroy the Ukrainian state and the killing of innocent people in Ukraine. Putin must not stop at the peace negotiations table alone. Putin has to stop trial at the table. But it is important for us to make our political and diplomatic contribution to this, even if it is accompanied by accusations in Russophobia and the historic complex before Russia. The recent history has proven that we have been right about our dangers and fears. Estonia must at least be a mental locomotive in condemning Putin's aggression and affirming its condemnation so that we do not fall into everyday pragmatic prosperity once the war has ended. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of us to put an end to the activities of the Estonian-Russian Friendship Group and the Estonian-Belarusian Friendship Group. Their existence is not justified at the moment, and it is a shame. I think we can do it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U74	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Estonian society will come out of the Ukrainian war and this hall will be more united than it was before. I would like to start by welcoming our new chairman, Marko Šorin, of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. This [election of the new chairman] was a necessary step. I myself have done this in the Georgian war and I can say that it is like being on the front. There's gotta be a fight, and there's gotta be a heart in the right place. But I would also like to welcome all the other colleagues who did not vote in favour of Ukraine last time, just as they did not vote in previous times. It wasn't a coincidence. Apologies, as if the war had started on Thursday, and the reasons that the war is actually against, are not relevant. The war began in 2014. A day earlier, Russians marched into Ukraine with additional troops. So there's no point in getting behind it, it's not sincere. I would very much like to see all the Riigikogu ambassadors that we are talking about here clearly telling their constituents what their leaders have said about who is a criminal and how they should be treated, and that they do not accept the differences of opinion among their constituents on this matter. We have to be leaders and explainers here. This war has been, in my opinion, a triumph of the traditional values of Estonia in that it does not concern the dark side of this war. This means that allied relations are back on the table, the truths of freedom are back on the table, and what we have been saying since the zeros, that allies have to spend at least 2% of GDP on [state defence] is becoming the norm. The attitude towards the enemy has changed dramatically. Completely inappropriate and worthy of apology are the stories of plan B and how the European Union is somehow an occupyant, does evil and has somehow taken away our freedom. I have also heard the best speeches from the party referred to in recent days. I hope that this will become a general message for the party's electorate: NATO, the European Union, allied relations, these are Estonian relics and symbols of freedom. It is precisely collective defence [is important], not any war plan that envisages a two-way fight with Russia. Unfortunately, today this picture has already sounded. No, we should not even talk right now about some kind of arms procurement that everyone is taking time to do, or about large additional allocations. We should talk about rapid arms assistance to Ukraine and armed assistance, in fact, and military assistance to border countries. After all, it is another triumph of allies that we are being brought to this border by more troops. And when we have power gaps, consider that we always have them. We cannot support the full army and fight against Russia. But it is precisely allies that ensure that we also fill the power gaps with the help of our allies. After all, our allies have armed themselves to destroy the tanks and planes of the Russians. And that is what needs to be dealt with now, which is why they must be launched in Ukraine, as well as bringing them here to defend NATO's borders. One more thing: energy independence. It's been a Putin weapon that has softened the west for a long time. We all have to understand that we do not have to fight prices, but we have to fight Putin, and we have to fight for energy independence. The resources that are currently being incinerated indiscriminately in order to subsidise energy consumption must be directed towards the creation of energy independence. It's urgent. The story of how we've suddenly become poor is vile. Real suffering is elsewhere, and energy independence is what allows them to be combated internationally. Our party, of course, supports all new initiatives to impose sanctions against Russia and also the fact that Estonia has completed cultural cooperation with Russia. We should also review our legislation. After all, one element of security is a parliament that is actually functioning. It is a shame that, on any pretext, Parliament's work is being put to a halt here. I've never respected it, no matter who does it. Now it really is a question of whether our speeches of all kinds have never been my favorite subject and I have never thought that Estonia should deal with it, all kinds of media and all kinds of speeches we will allow in the future. We are already drawing boundaries, but we should now also make a new start in legislation, so that we do not just make Parliament stand still, but we agree on what we promise and what we do not allow. We are the world's most free country, almost, in this kind of thing, but if the criminal is behind the border, it doesn't necessarily work. Fictions such as "deep state" or "police state" should be excluded from our lexic. No, it's all our own country, and it's not our enemy. These are the keepers of our freedom, the administration, the security agencies, these are not our enemies. We should not be convincing our voters in the opposite direction. And what we're protecting is important. We defend freedom in general; we protect the preservation of the Estonian people and culture in a broader sense. But its content is, among other things, liberal democracy. Do you really think that when you hear the word "liberal," you have to grab the gun? Liberal democracy means all the things Putin doesn't have to control. It means the rule of law, the separation of powers, the free press, the market economy. It's what keeps our society resilient, and that's what separates us from the aggressor. It is not only the majority vote that creates the truth, [it] is also created by the control mechanisms, nor does it create freedom. So let us put an end to the attacks on the court, the press, the economic freedom that works. Finally, and not least, I would like to recall a common space for culture, information and education. Education in Estonian must now be given gas. Seriously. This is one thing that has divided our society, and that is one thing that has to stop hypocrites. There are still tens of thousands of people in Estonia, if not hundreds of thousands of brainwashed people, whose voices also parasite some of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U76	For the Socialists Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good Estonian people and our allies! While 101 years ago the walls of this honorable hall rose, the Red Army destroyed an independent Ukrainian state. Today, the Kremlin's rulers are once again at the throat of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people are fighting incredibly bravely, fighting first for their own freedom, but they are also fighting for all our freedom and democracy in the West. No one doubts that Putin's Russia is a deadly enemy of the West. If he is now not stopped in Ukraine, he will sooner or later take the next military step against the free world, as Hitler did in the 1930s. You have to learn from history. Fortunately, after 24 February, everyone understands that, in addition to imposing as severe sanctions as possible against Russia, it is also essential to increase the defence costs of their own country. This has also been understood by those countries that have long underfunded their defence forces. Who could have predicted ten more days ago that Germany would increase its defence budget to more than 2% of GDP by channelling the amount that is [equivalent] to the state budget of Estonia for nearly nine years to strengthen its defence capacity? Appreciation for German noblemen! The Social Democrats are convinced that we have an obligation here in Estonia to implement the defence investment plan for the next decade at an early pace. The planning of the defence budget must be smart and thoughtful. The Ukrainian war shows in its harsh ways how the Russian army is fighting. We need to learn from it, and we need to strengthen and develop first and foremost those capabilities that are necessary for the primary eradication and destruction of the enemy, to improve our own defence capabilities. At the same time, NATO will also significantly strengthen its eastern wing to prevent the worst, to be ready. Plans for the defence of the Baltic States have been launched. It is important to know what capabilities we can improve with and with the support of our allies. The greater presence of the allies here in Estonia is vital to us. Today, however, the brave Ukrainian fighters need the support of all democratic countries. In addition to showing solidarity, they need as soon as possible a large number of weapons and equipment, weapons to crush the Occupants, to free lost areas. Estonia has been at the forefront of providing military assistance in the world. Fortunately, other democracies have also awakened. Ukraine is not alone. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in a second period of peace in Estonia's history. Fortunately, for the last 77 years, no major and devastating war has been waged on Estonia's territory. This has allowed it to grow in peace for three generations who have not seen war. But, unfortunately, the world has changed around us. A great war in the middle of Europe is a sad reality. This war is affecting us all more and more every day. In addition to supporting Ukraine, we must maintain the coherence of our own society, as the enemy's goal is to sow confusion and tension in both Estonia and other democratic countries in our region. Today, the common goal of the free world is to stop the Kremlin criminal regime. We must ensure our independence, make every effort to ensure that freedom does not fall further. Long live Estonia! Long live the free Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U78	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U79	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who follow us online or anywhere! Workmates here and there! And, of course, my football fans, who have survived, but who are in Ukraine fighting for their country! In me, my affection for the Ukrainians may have been triggered by the events of Maidan, where the fans of all football clubs continued to puff each other, trying to have stronger muscles. But when Maidan got serious, every club put out its own hundredths. Yeah, well, the first ones to get shot on Maidan were football fans and the right sector, a political organization. Later, when it was necessary to go and stop the aggressor, it was the football fans and the right sector, whose helmet was a jacket and whose vest was a jeanstak. The will was so big. I think all these football fans had the inalienable right to see the beautiful wins and games of their own football team and their own club. But I know there's another stadium at the end of the world that we'll meet in the stands, and then at least I'll have a good feeling that I haven't just stood by and watched it. Ukrainian football fans invited me to sing a song that you know and maybe I wouldn't sing here. But today the situation is quite different from 2014, today you can sing this song, because today it is actually an active aggression. When it comes to what was 2014 then I was not here in the Riigikogu, the city of Tallinn wanted to accept the application in support of Ukraine. I don't remember if we've been doing this for six or eight months. The Riigikogu went much faster, but Tallinn could not. This makes me feel that I don't think Tallinn wants to today either. We meet on Thursday, meet at Tallinn City Council. [I don't know] whether we can have any influence or change in central party Tallinn, and I don't know if the Social Democrats are now straightening their backs. That'd be great if you did. Here we have had some very interesting debates. Nationalists have used to say since 2005 that we need to stop retranslation of pro-Empire influence channels on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. The year was then 2005. Now it's gotten to where? I would remind you that a month ago we held debates here where some said that no, no, no, no, can't close them, it's a free press. Although we were talking about a simple matter, [it is] an information operation and an information war. All right, politicians, they're saying what they're saying, but it's extremely embarrassing to hear the correspondents of the ERR say that we would be the stupidest country in the world if we did something like this. Perhaps [in other words,] there are countries with brain retention that have, in fact, been restricting these channels a long time ago. But fortunately, we have the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, who just did it. If this [decision] had been left to do this hall, we would have kept looking at these channels, because there are more buts in this hall, why nothing can be done. Another question that remains, and what other countries have already done, but we have not dared, is the banning of Georgi's tape at public events. Now you're asking what's in common with it. Symbols change the value and importance of time. In 2014 in the occupation and annexation of Crimea, it was specifically a symbol of the occupation by which they knew not to shoot each other. They're still wearing them. Now, if somebody in 2022 is going to talk about a military character and a great deal of honor and respect for this so-called great army, it is not competent. I'd take the chance and take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U80	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U81	We have a lot of things. We also have a few public events, the necessity of which we no longer understand and where these people are no longer involved and where they are, say Russia always directed its reporters. I mean, even this little misunderstanding, I would remind you that in 2006, our co-worker, Oudekk, formed a movement such as the May 8 movement, said that then the war in Europe ended, but he is still there on May 9th and he is not on May 8. Anyone who doesn't remember the past lives without a future. I think that 9 May, if such, should not find such an approach on our part that it is like the end of World War II. I've been debating a lot. It has been a great pleasure for me to have been in front of the Russian embassy since 2014 to picket for the territorial integrity of Ukraine. At the beginning, it was a situation where people began to explain to me that there was no aggression at all and that this so-called Gruz 200 was humanitarian aid. When I then replied that there was no really a great patriotic war, but it was simply German humanitarian aid to Moscow, [the thought] came to many. But he doesn't make it to a lot of people. My question, however, is today: can Tallinn, as the capital of the Republic of Estonia, who has a friendship with both Kiev and Odessa, show any solidarity, or will we be entangled behind all of them? I don't think there's time for butts. Those football fans who missed their club's better and worse games deserve it. And at the end, I'm just saying, Slava Ukrainian, Slava Nazi! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U82	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U83	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Friends! The 15th architectural biennial of Venice in 2008 had a curatorial exhibition entitled "Messages from the front line," the main curator Alejandro Aravena. With which Estonia was represented, do you remember? Artists Maarja Kask, Ralf Lõoke and Neeme Külm exhibited the installation, the starting point of which at that time was just the planned one on a scale of yellow Russian-German gas pipeline Nord Stream, which was located on the biennial from the Russian pavilion area to the German pavilion. The purpose of the installation was not to take a radical stance, nor to offer solutions, so the biennial is still standing today, but a clear position to put questions to the world and to shed light on the aspects related to the subject. The installation highlighted the inevitable political dimension of architecture and the spatial impact of political decisions. Estonia made history in Venice in 2008, not just architectural history. Why am I saying this? The Creators erected a bold, eye - opening work. But did the world understand? Let me remind you, this was all 14 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us note today the warning signs raised by the creators! Today, when the Estonian Ministry of Culture has interrupted cultural exchanges and agreements with Russia and Belarus, let us join in and send a clear message to our colleagues in these countries: this is not all against you. It is not against Russian or Belarusian artists, musicians, athletes, scientists, composers, writers, actors, Russia or the Belarusian people. But only our common resistance and your common opposition to the Putin regime will end the war and bring peace. Long live Ukraine! Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U84	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners and viewers! Estonian defence is based on two pillars, as we all know. These are primary, independent defence and alliance support. The reality is very simple: the weaker the self-defence capacity, the greater and stronger and the slower the alliance's participation. On the contrary, the stronger the immediate, the primary ability, the better our defence interests are protected. It is also appropriate to make some comments here. There have also been words here about the coherence and strength of society, so that we should not use what words. Trust in our state structures is crucial and it is beginning to stand out especially in a crisis situation and in a war. Alongside state structures, I cannot fail to mention local authorities, which are also a state for citizens. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how do you think it will strengthen confidence in your country and how it will strengthen the country if, for example, when the local government takes up office as the first thing, it will deal with the personal issues of its leading politicians, real estate matters, and still using a model that no other Pärnu person has ever been able to use in Pärnu, for example, and if the leading politician is still chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Will it strengthen confidence in the state or weaken it? I think we all know the answer. I wanted to talk about two things. Much has been said about supporting Ukraine, and that is very right, but it should be said that it is not enough. We will not be allowed to be put to sleep, how good we are, how well Europe and the West [the rest] respond. Unfortunately, the measures so far have been inadequate, as aggression has not stopped and peace has not been created in Ukraine. Measures are sufficient when aggression is immediately brought to an end. But for us, the first thing we do here at home should be to strengthen our country and our national defence. In addition to the good colleague Leo Kunna, I want to talk about broad-based national defence, because we have a lot of words on it, but words, you know, the battlefield has no effect, just as the cannon, missile, [grenade launcher] Carl Gustav and other instruments. If we do not actually apply wide-spread defence, then [we] have weak broad-surface defence [and this] means very specific deaths of the civilian population, injuries of our people, wounds of our people. This, in turn, has a devastating effect on the morale of our troops. But most importantly, we're losing our people. For those who find it difficult to take a stand, I would like to say that look at the kharkivi drop bombs do not know the difference between nationalities, they do not know the difference between nationalities. I will also comment on the presentation by the Minister of Defence. It seems to me that we have a positive direction, but the pace and specificity are not enough. We need additional budgets and plans... A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U86	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U87	...and need it now. It's been almost a week, and we're just talking, we're still analyzing. There are certain conclusions that we are about to learn. Protecting the population must be considered more seriously and not for 2% or whatever that percentage is in national defence. This is the interest and responsibility of all our institutions and businesses. If a person is fit to work for you, that person is also fit to be protective. In the construction of certain businesses and institutions of a certain size, this aspect of protection should already be considered: schools, childcare facilities, large companies and so on. And that, once again, does not have to come from the percentage of national defence funding. Military border guard and internal defence reserve. Ukraine is showing us quite clearly: security carpet, immediate response, catching diversion and intelligence groups, neutralizing, and using military units for this purpose cannot be used; it is too expensive. Their mission is to fight military units on the front line. It must be properly trained and non-military. Border insurance, border facilities: we have talked a lot about them, received statements. The result is not very positive. If we talk here and come to decisions slowly, I would have a suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, take a few minutes, go to the inner courtyard of the Riigikogu, there is a wall [under] of the main entrance. Look at these names. The ruthless enemy does not know the difference between partyhood and salt. It's the responsibility of all of us. Above all, we have a responsibility to our own country, our own citizens, alongside Ukraine's support. Speaking of primary defenses, that's what I started with, that's what I'd like to finish with, look, it's not just theoretical. Our territory is very small, our operational room is very small, we must start countermeasures immediately at the border. From there also military border guards, from there also an internal defence reserve. We have no room to play and demonstrate operational art. It's a tough reality. So I wish us all wisdom, and let us be healthy! By the way, speaking of health, the COVID has nothing to do with this war. Consider this, too. Power and wisdom for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U88	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U89	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Some of us, some of you, have asked me why another declaration and how many can be made. Two statements have been accepted. What else? I think that these statements must be accepted as much as necessary. That's why we're here. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those who are now asking why to make this third statement also asked what had to be done for the first one, but after we adopted it, they were very proud that we accepted it. There was even more criticism before the second statement, because we just made the first one. But then it turned out that it was almost such a top job for the Riigikogu that we accepted it. But why are we talking about the third? Because things have changed. I am not talking about what has already been said that cities are being bombed, a large column of armored technology is heading towards Kiev. But a completely different level is after Russia's President Vladimir Putin ordered that the strategic nuclear forces be brought into a special preparedness regime. In general, as usual, Mr Putin's actions are part of the truth, part of the demonstration. The idea, the main thing is that we get scared. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm an old man. I remember very well how, in the 1950's, every day [with fear], we expected a nuclear war to begin tomorrow. I have developed a strong enough immunity against such intimidation. That's what a nuclear weapon is to scare. But such hooliganism can't be left unanswered, and so far we've been following events. Putin will do something, and then we'll say, oh, oh, no, we'll make sanctions like that. But now we must react very clearly to the new situation. After threatening nuclear weapons, the situation is basically different. What exactly do we have to do? We must call for Russia's warplanes, helicopters and other aircraft to be placed in a restricted zone over Ukraine. We know that this request has been made by President Zelenskiy; this issue has also been raised in the US Congress. But in general, President Biden has been opposed because it provokes Putin. Putin doesn't need to be provoked. That would be an adequate response to Putin's actions. They say Ukraine is not a NATO member. No, but Syria was even less a member of NATO, but the air space was closed there, so and so, it went not to the very end, but in any case it was proposed by America, Turkey and other allies. Right now, President Biden is against it. But he needs to be pressured. Estonia has made several proposals. Estonia has been very successful in this conflict at diplomatic level. Many of Estonia's proposals, which seemed too resolute, almost extremist, are now the official policy of the European Union. So let us not fear it! First thing, clear the airspace. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U90	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U91	Another thing, once the airspace is closed, is to immediately create an air bridge to Kiev for the operational development of humanitarian and military assistance. Elementary! Then, Ukraine needs not only weapons and humanitarian aid, but Ukraine also needs money. This requires the launch of a programme such as the flight-lease during World War II [aid programme] to Ukraine. This name would also be very appropriate; it would create yet another association with the previous Ukrainian conqueror. Yeah, let's remember Vyssotsky's song, "Soldat po Ukraine Soldatõ Group Centr," Germans. Let's help Ukraine! Finally, an information war. We're losing it. We must also be proactive here. My colleague quite rightly pointed out that words do not matter on the battlefield. In the battlefield, though, sorry, from a very old age, it is important that the tradition of warriors not only treat each other with weapons but also with words. Very uplifts morale, at least for yourself. But words have a very big effect on the rear. I have participated in several actions aimed specifically at the Russians, the Russian military. But unfortunately, these messages do not reach the Russian channels. I'd ask here, if anyone knows, to give advice on how to get to them. Ladies and gentlemen, We're being threatened, but we're not scared. We stand next to the Ukrainians, who actually stand every day for our freedom and dignity, save Europe's dignity. And if a person is not afraid to come unarmed against a tank, there is a great deal of such cases, then we must be even less afraid to express our strong position and support for Ukraine and the appointment of aggressor as an aggressor. And as quite rightly noted, Putin and I will negotiate at the Hague War Tribunal. Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U92	Thank you. George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U93	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister of Defence! First of all, I would like to say thank you to the Committee on National Defence for this initiative today, the initiative. I think it is very necessary, as many of us have already said. We have gathered with the Riigikogu before the morning of 24 February and discussed Ukraine's topics and statement and support, but we have not done so in this acute war situation. So thank you very much for that. When we were here on 24 February on the slope of the Tall Hermann Tower [at Toompea] and watched our national tricolor rise to the Tall Hermann Tower and celebrate the birthday of the Republic of Estonia, it must be said that this 105th path we have begun with the beginning of the war in Europe, here in the heart of Europe, when the aggressor has attacked a free and independent Ukraine. On the sixth day we are at war, the international picture has become completely more united, stronger, clearer. Yesterday I was in Riga, Latvia, and I met a Swedish deputy speaker there who said that Sweden also decided that it would now provide military assistance. This is something Sweden has never done. If we take today, knowing the information that Germany has decided to raise its defence costs, as well as to provide military assistance, these are all very important signicant decisions. Important flagging decisions. The way in which transatlantic relations have come with countries such as Japan and Australia shows the unity of the West and a clear condemnation of the aggressor, a clear condemnation of the Kremlin, the Putin regime. I also want to say that the current sanctions policy has had a very wide-ranging impact not only on the economy but also on a much wider scale, also in culture and sport, and it shows that the activities of the Kremlin regime, the aggressor, are being condemned at all levels. Yes, I totally agree with the use of such a fast road or a fast road when we are talking about giving Ukraine a perspective on [addition] with the European Union. I think this is very necessary and clear today. I would also like to say thank you very much to my fellow Members of the Riigikogu, who have been very active in supporting Ukraine, to show our initiative, certainly at the level of the government, that we have actually managed, in very many places, to be the first speakers, to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. This unity that we have today, this unity is important at any moment, even in the next few minutes. [It is important that we maintain this unity with our allies, support Ukraine, provide them with military equipment in this war, so that they can resist strongly, powerfully and clearly, and win this war with an aggressor. Now a few words about how I feel about this security situation within Estonia. Helmen Küttt was, in my opinion, the first to raise the subject of war refugees today: how war refugees will be accepted here, what is the regulation they can do here, how they can get medicine here, where they can be. This line must certainly be established as soon as possible in cooperation with the municipalities. Thanks to the municipalities here very much, very many, I know, are making an effort today to be ready to accept war refugees. For example, Rakvere has made great preparations. I'd like an extra minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U94	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U95	In my opinion, we should also, in this sense, be out of the question of Signe Kivi, I think it was the one who said that we also have a lot of Russian-speaking people living there, that this is not the Russian people's war against Ukraine. This is the war of the Kremlin, the Putin regime, a crime, and it must be clearly defined in my opinion. So it is also important to keep the debate open at national level. Yes, I, too, support the closure of the channels of propaganda in the Kremlin. At the same time, we must work even harder for people with Russian native language, whether they live in Ida-Virumaa or somewhere else in Estonia, to take this right and true information. I would like to end by saying that I think we should also take the initiative to block Russia's activities in parliamentary assemblies as well as in international organisations. Today we must also act together here in the Riigikogu. All these different calls, the various initiatives that are at all in support of Ukraine, in support of Ukraine's independence, territorial integrity, I believe that they must be dealt with quickly and must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U96	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please! [[Heiki Hepner requests more time.]] Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Ukrainian people are fighting a heroic battle against Russia and Belarus. The war in Ukraine has actually been going on for eight years, but today we can say that it is the sixth day of the war with which Russia wants to destroy Ukraine once and for all. On 23 February, on the eve of the war, we in the Riigikogu condemned the Russian Federation's current aggression against Ukraine. On 24 February, on the birthday of our country, the Russian President decided to launch a new, large-scale military aggression with Belarus against one of Europe's democratic and independent states, Ukraine, with a view to destroying the elected and legitimate authorities of the people. This step threatens peace and security throughout Europe. Russia is not alone in this war. He would not have made such military progress if Belarus had not joined him. This must also be addressed. Yes, this war is the war between Putin Russia and Lukashenko Belarus. But everyone who participates in this war on the side of Russia and Belarus is responsible for the consequences it will have. Russia and Belarus have committed timeless crimes against humanity and war crimes by killing defenseless peaceful people, women and children. The Russian and Belarusian military can refuse to go to a foreign war. The Ukrainian people have no other means of defending their country. Estonia, together with its good partners in the West and friends with respect for democracy and human rights around the world, has provided Ukraine with a helping hand. Military assistance to Ukraine must continue and must increase substantially. The sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus also need to be taken forward. I'll come up with a few suggestions. Unfortunately, only some banks have so far been excluded from the SWIFT system. The banking of the aggressive countries should be completely and immediately blocked. Civil flights are subject to a ban on entry into Western airspace, but it would also be necessary to impose a ban on Russian vessels entering our ports. The circle of persons subject to sanctions must be extended. Comrade Schröder, who has faithfully served Putin, deserves equal treatment with Putin. There are plenty of guys and more. A no-fly zone for the delivery of humanitarian aid must be established over Ukraine. The democratic West must immediately call back its ambassadors for consultations and freeze diplomatic relations with Russia. Ukraine must be provided with financial capacity for the functioning of the country during the war and also later in the reconstruction of the country. Loans granted to Ukraine by the World Bank and other international financial institutions should not be charged interest and repayments should be deferred or cancelled when servicing loans. We must give Ukraine hope not only for today but also for tomorrow and for the distant future. Ukraine must be granted the status of candidate country for membership of the European Union and the NATO membership roadmap. Every citizen of our country, company, organisation and municipality has their own opportunities. I thank all citizens and businesses, organisations that have already offered help to help Ukrainian citizens. I congratulate the volunteers who have started collecting assistance to support the people of Ukraine. I call on all municipalities to terminate the cooperation and friendship agreement with the authorities of Russia and Belarus until Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity have been fully restored. We are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, and we are preparing to give assistance to Ukrainian citizens, as we can, who have been caught in the way of the war that is taking place there. As a country, we need a substantial increase in defence costs. So far, 2% has been said, but now we are in a situation where the necessary expenditure can no longer be postponed. At least in the coming years, as long as our defence capability gaps have been filled, we must raise defence expenditure to a minimum of 4%. We are helping Ukraine together, this is a war for European freedom. Long live Ukraine! Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U98	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that very many Estonians, Europeans, asked themselves whether everything that is happening in the world today was really aggression against Ukraine, how it could be, and how we have come to this situation in the first place. For a lot of people, I believe, it still seems unrealistic that there is a large-scale war going on in Europe. This [opportunity] was left to people in historical archives and books, which have had to be remembered from time to time and which have to be spoken about. But the fact that it's in this form, it's all in our yard, it's for a lot of people, and it's still a very bad surprise. I, too, thank the National Defence Committee for the operational gathering and communication in this situation, the exchange of information, the discussion of further plans. I very, very much wish that the additional political initiative launched today, the appeal, would move forward quickly, that the Commission would process it, and that we could shape clear positions. After all, we see how this conflict develops from day to day, from hour to hour. Today, for now, Belarus has also sent troops to the aggressor, Russia to help, while at the same time being part of the aggressor and part of Russia. We're actually fighting on two levels. We are all very involved in Ukraine in the context of such a war on freedom, and we very much hope that Ukraine will be able to cope with this situation. But at the same time, we are actually fighting the Putin regime. We try to do this by using all kinds of information channels and using economic methods to force the aggressor into a corner. But at the same time, we all obviously understand with our other hemisphere that it's extremely difficult to force this aggressor into a corner, just using defensive tactics. A large-scale war has begun and we must inevitably ask ourselves whether it is possible to win battles in this war. I think that this is actually the question that most leaders in Europe and in the rest of the world are asking themselves for an hour or two. Apparently, a lot of people are asking themselves how to proceed. When we talk about NATO, we talk about Article 5, we talk about protecting our sovereignty and the integrity of our territory, how can it be done when an aggressor is cornered, who threatens everything at every step and the most cruel? Are we sitting, hoping, sanctioning, keeping the best technique and trained men in our vault and finally bumping into the worst in the world because we don't have enough courage and hope that someone can do it? More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U100	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U101	I don't think the world will be the same since February 24 this year. Very many people have to pull their children out of childhood, childhood, and tell them about the adult language, which is war. To talk about everything that's probably ahead of us, because it's not all going to pass, it's not all going to run out. We need to be prepared for very great challenges, and at the same time, of course, to show our confidence as leaders and as Members of Parliament, that we can all do this together in a good way. I also congratulate all the volunteers, the municipalities, who clearly take on the role and do not expect the country to come and say specifically. I think we are also living in a moment where, as a country, we need to pay more attention to the fact that if we don't say A or B at the right time, then at some point, it happens that volunteers are running past this country. This, too, is a very serious threat. We need to be up to our responsibilities, we need to be flexible. We must be bold to say that additional funds must be put in our defence, linked to a higher percentage of GDP. Obviously, there has to be a plan. No one denies the plan. But Germany could probably do this without a very fundamental plan, because the country has been in this situation for a very long time, where any military approach has actually been denied. I think that a clear message for our citizens and allies today is crucial. This plan actually exists in the documents and heads of a large number of people planning our defence activities. Just a political trend is needed, a political message is needed. The world yells at these political messages every day. And they must be specific, resolute, because once again, the world is not only standing here next to Ukraine, supporting them and holding them and living with them, but at every hour we are also fighting the Putin regime. It needs to be overthrown. If this is not achieved, the suffering of [Ukraine] 44 million people will largely be even more questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U102	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good listeners! The world is no longer the same, and we are shocked at what is happening in Ukraine. Not only about Russia's aggression against Ukraine, but about how war is waged. Right now, Russian units are incarceration of local residents. Indeed, there are attacks on kindergartens, hospitals, innocent people. However, the war in Ukraine has given rise to an outrageous sense of cohesion in the Western countries, and this is one reason to be proud of Western democracy, to be proud of Estonia, to be happy. This feeling of cohesion was hoped for when Estonia was occupied during World War II. My grandfather left as captain of the ship in 1939 and could never come back because he was warned that when he arrived, the ship would be taken away from him and the family would be deported. The whole family has been talking about how a white ship was expected to come and free Estonia from the occupiers. Now, at last, Western democracies stood up for their values and left aside their own interests. They are fighting for their values, democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law, and we are fighting with them, among us, before them. At the cost of the suffering and human lives of Ukraine, the world has suddenly gained new power to fight for truth and justice on every front. Estonia is in solidarity with Ukraine, and I am proud that Estonia was one of the first to decide to provide arms assistance to Ukraine and help with humanitarian aid. But Estonia can also do a great deal to make sure that we are well at home, that we are prepared to make our contribution, not only to keep peace, but also to preserve democracy and our independence in Estonia. In receiving refugees, the main focus is probably on local authorities and local people, who have already shown their willingness. For example, Tartu has already started showing hospitality, taking immediate care of Ukrainian gymnasts who had come here for competitions but could not return. I know that NGO Refugee Assistance coordinates all the activities that locals do. But I would like to point out that in receiving refugees, we need to think not only about how to give them food and hats, but also about how to support their ability to cope in our society. Since 24 February, more than 370000 people have crossed the Polish border, and there are always more. Estonia must be prepared for quite a large-scale reception of refugees, and I sincerely hope that our people will show the same hospitality as our people were shown during World War II in Sweden, Canada, the United States, where our people fled. In order for these people, many of whom are women and children, to move on with their lives, we need to help them find a job right away. But in order for them to be able to go to work, many children need to find a kindergarten place, a school place, a childcare place. I know the local authorities are working on it, but I want to put everyone's heart to think well about how the children of refugees can cope in these schools and kindergartens. Culturally, they can integrate more easily into our society than many refugees from other countries. But I'd like to point out that we don't know how long they'll be here. It is clear that they want to go back, but Europe has already announced that it is ready for them to be in these European countries for even three years when it is necessary. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U104	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U105	It is very important that children and their families who choose to stay are helped to integrate into our society so that they can learn Estonian from the very beginning. This is very important because, unfortunately, today we still have a lot of schools where education in Estonian is not so good. Perhaps it would be very important to think now about what great step we can take in providing education and teaching materials in Estonian and supporting children who go to schools where Estonian is taught as a second language. Estonia could extend its kind hand and help to take a big step forward by improving the language skills of these people. In addition, I am concerned that on Monday, when school begins, in our schools, where children from foreign-language homes are taught, teachers must explain what is happening in Ukraine, the Russian aggression must explain to the Russian-speaking children. I hope that our teachers, who must attend the lessons of history and social studies, will be provided with certain aids. Yesterday, we discussed with our groupmates that perhaps it would help to take up Putin's speech, with which he declared war, and to make it a critical reading material in order to explain more precisely where the lies are, where there is a real information war. Russia is doing everything it can to prevent its people from getting the right information. We try to keep people in this information room so that those whose home language is not Estonian can understand things right! We support the Ukrainians, but we also support our democracy and our independence, and this time we take a bolder step in the integration of Estonian-language education [promotion] and these people into the Estonian-language educational space! Long live Ukraine! Slava Ukrainiani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U106	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U107	Respectable Parliament! Respectable people of Estonia! In these hours, literally in these hours, Russia has embarked on a more intensive attack to break the Ukrainian backbone. According to unconfirmed information, the troops are also heading towards Ukraine as of today in the form of Belarusian units. All that is possible must be done to bring Russia, as an aggressive state, to its knees. The failure to do so and the inactivity of the West, the shame of it, will only help to wash down the full range of activities. We all recall the repeated requests made by President Zelenskiy over the last few months for preventive sanctions to be imposed on Russia. His request to the whole free world was at the Munich Security Conference last Saturday: you must intervene to defend Ukraine's freedom before a direct military blow is given! It wasn't done. The sanctions imposed by the West on some banks last Tuesday and the blocking of business with Donetsk and Luhansk, like Crimea, were obviously not sufficient. There was also rhetoric that the West should not launch the whole sanction machine at the same time, but should move by slices, by block. Same rerun on Thursday, right after the military strike. These sanctions, which were imposed, were obviously not sufficient. The sanctions of the White House were imposed with a month's implementation period concerning correspondent accounts of Russian banks[where money is held in dollars]. With a month's [reference]! And now we're in a situation where the thought field in the west has started to shift, but not enough. We honestly acknowledge that from the active phase of war on 24 February to this day, the West has given over $4 billion for raw materials to Russia. I'm putting it in perspective. 50% of the Russian state budget is actually coming from the sale of raw materials, their exchange income they are using today for war. For over $4 billion, the West has been subsiding a Russian war machine this week. In addition, some $2 billion has been given goods to Russia. I rely on general statistics from [early] years because I have not sanctioned this activity in either direction. Here our message today in these hours, when there is an attack on Ukraine by the Russian army, a massive attack, must be that the parliaments of the free world must not remain silent and must demand from their national governments that a comprehensive trade embargo be imposed on Russia. A comprehensive trade embargo! These sanctions cannot be aimed at long-term deterrence. The purpose of these sanctions must be to bring the Russian state to its knees in the shortest possible time. The inconvenience experienced by the Western economy and consumers is the least to wash down the shame that has resulted from the western passivity and silence [in response] to the prayers of Zelenskiy, which, unfortunately, were not heard before the military invasion of Ukraine at this stage of the war. So the complete withdrawal of SWIFT, the complete withdrawal of Russian raw material business, the total isolation of Russia from aluminium, wheat and, of course, the energy sector. Now, step two. That is the point of the appeal now, initiated today. We have to take it today. It is precisely the parliaments of other countries that we appeal to them to call on their governments to do so. It is said that this cannot be done because the children of Russia are suffering. But it can be done. I recall last night's decision by the Canadian Government on the purchase of Russian crude oil. The first G7 country has done so at government level. So it can be done! This requires pressure and this pressure must also come from Estonia and this pressure must come from our Parliament. It is Parliaments that can hold this dialogue around the world with parliaments that are expected to think alike. There are also a number of sanctions that have not been imposed, but which I hope will be in work. The other side of this is the introduction of systematic arms assistance, as Mikhail Lotman called, in the form of a flight-lease, because the war involves a huge amount of weapons and ammunition. These one-off steps, which have been taken, I very much congratulate the Estonian Government for them and also for the next planned steps, are obviously not enough. This means that there must be such a system, we are talking about billions of volumes, that [there will be guaranteed] daily arms and ammunition shipments to Ukraine. These two things, the full-scale implementation of the flight-lease system, but not on the principle, with all due respect for what the allies can offer, and then, according to this, the wishlist that we offer to Ukraine will be put together. No, the list has to be upside down. What Ukraine needs is our duty, the duty of the Western world to offer them. And there must be no limiter or blocker to our resource [to be provided]. Undoubtedly, these dramatic days, the hours that run, are actually also an opportunity at a time when all mankind is in an elevated emotional state, to take steps that maybe a few weeks ago would have been unthinkable: granting Ukraine the status of candidate country for the European Union, in the case of Ukraine the full cancellation of loans from the World Bank and other international financial institutions, and offering NATO a roadmap. There is now a struggle for the dignity and freedom of all free mankind. The fighting of Ukrainian soldiers and the entire Ukrainian people. The least we can do is bring the Ukrainian leaders' request, which is precisely about cutting through the basic, raw material channels, immediate and immediate cutting through to other world parliaments. And secondly, the same message is that we need a comprehensive, complete flight-lease system that will satisfy all Ukrainian needs for this war. The enemy is now under attack. This means that the free world must, with its possibilities, also advance in these hours. The situation is very time-critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U108	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I am not going to go over the dignified thoughts that have already been heard many times from this remote and media, but I still want to make a few comments just to perhaps understand the broader background. First of all, I would like to say that I was surprised by what I heard when I listened to my various colleagues, no, not in this Chamber, but in Internet conversations, in other countries. [There] it has always been said that something completely new and fabulous appeared in Russian politics. Every time I hear about history, I think about it, and there are several other people who have been exposed to it and can say that it was only nine generations ago, when Gustav von Strandmann, the landlord of Estonia, who was unknown in Estonia, wrote Strandmann's memorandum, which provided for all the same points as the Russian empire must extend to Europe. An amazing lot of acquaintances, and yet you can't talk about it here for a while. Yes, later in our country, many of the praised people have joined it forcefully, such as one of the great theorists and practitioners of the Russian colonial expansion, Admiral Adam Johann von Krusenstern, whom we consider only a scientist, and others. Now, in order not to have a history lecture, although I would rather have it than talk about war here, I stress the knowledge of the politics that are being discussed today and which some believe to be fair, Putin has a national setback and all the other things that are there. That is true, the politics of the empire are insulted. And if Gustav von Strandmann and I agreed and lived at the turn of the 18th and 19th centuries, these steps would be justified on how to expand one empire. I am pleased to recall how my Finnish colleagues this year was in contact with them after I had received a collection of documents from a good colleague, Mikhail Lotman, saying that they were shocked when they found out that the Soviet leadership had calmed its military personnel, that no, the peace agreements were all temporary, the empire was still restored and that Finland was no longer ours. It was a surprise for them. I was surprised [one more thing]. In the last millennium, we had one such project as "European History in National History" and [now recently] we talked to Swedish colleagues who had found [this project] old notes. They said that Black, listen, you were already talking about how projects have been made in Soviet and Russian times, how to occupy Gotland Island, to achieve hegemony in the Baltic Sea, what about Sweden being a neutral country and so on, because it is a strategic point. But for the second time, I didn't have to talk about history here. As for history, maybe only so much that history is said that a fool learns only from his mistakes, if he learns at all, the wise must have learned from others' own and their history. But they learn little from history. What really sent me here was that I wanted to mention all the international organisations that have been mentioned. I am involved with the Baltic Assembly, which apologized for the aggression, on the first day of the war, a statement in which it deplored Russian policy. This was particularly affected by the Benelux countries, as well as by Nordisk Råd, the Nordic Council and the GUAM countries, which are such very specific countries, including Ukraine. Exactly as well, we had great struggles. Yesterday was the parliamentary conference of the Baltic Sea States, and again the three of us, Jānis Vucāns, Aadu Must and Andrius Kupčinskas, the leaders of the national delegations of the Baltic Assembly, signed a proposal to remove the Russian delegations. True, it ended with such a big bang that the whole conference was canceled, at least for the time being. I also wanted to talk about one more thing being said here several times. I have been asked, both in this Chamber and outside the Chamber, why the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group is operating. It's a lot to call a friend group because officially he's not a friendship group. There is, however, a parliamentary group. Its actions have long been... Just in case, extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U110	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U111	Although I'm already done, I'm still asking for more time to finish my sentences. Its [Parliamentary Group] activities have long been frozen. We have been discussing whether to disband it or keep it in a frozen form to express our optimism that perhaps the situation will get better. I'm sure he'll go someday. And just as embassies are not liquidated, but frozen between their work, a number of colleagues have initially said that we are freezing this activity as well. But let us continue to discuss and listen to the advice of all the good colleagues in Parliament, what to do with it. Unfortunately, the activities of the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group are now frozen. My support for a number of constructive ideas, I cannot repeat them. Slava Ukrainiani! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U112	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, Every minute we're here today, we talk, we sit, we discuss the war in Ukraine, people die there. Ukrainian soldiers are going to die, civilians are going to die, Russian soldiers are also going to die, and I do not believe that all of them would be eager to invade another country, Ukraine, where they are at the moment. Against this background, it is, of course, very welcome that the world has now awakened, opened its eyes. When, at the end of [the previous year], we went on a foreign visit to Ukraine, I will not mention this country, it was one of our western partners, we were struck out by who talked about what was going on at the Polish border and what was going on at the Ukrainian border, which was all known and seen as the kind of Eastern European fools who are talking about russophobia, and they said to hear what this is all about. Fortunately, today, there is no country that would have come to an understanding of what Putin and his kamarilian ambitions are and where these insane desires lead to the restoration of the former empire in its size and within its limits. It is clear that Russia's goal is not only the destruction of Ukraine, the denacification of the fascists there, and so on, but if this madness can be managed, then we will also look at other parts of the former empire, the Baltic States and Poland, why not also towards Finland. This threat is no longer hypothetical and is no longer our idée fixe or phobia, but it is actually a reality. And this reality means that we cannot leave Ukraine alone. Not only do I mean that we are sending them arms assistance and humanitarian aid, all of this is absolutely necessary and extremely good. However, today's sanctions, which are unprecedented, are not yet the road to completion, they can also be tightened up. Ports can be closed to Russian vessels, and cutting Russia out of SWIFT can take much further. And most importantly, Ukraine actually needs absolutely clear assistance not only as instruments but also as direct defence. One moment in this statement today is that a no-fly zone should be established over Ukraine for Russian warplanes, Russian war helicopters, because without it, in fact, sooner or later, this great Russian soldier's cherry leg will simply crush Ukraine. I don't know how to do that. Of course, I know what the consequences will be if NATO intervenes directly. But at the same time, if we think that if no one intervenes, then this thing is going to expand anyway and get worse, and we are going to get under direct attack here, then this option has to be considered very, very seriously. Above all, as a first step, i.e. the UN and then other alliances and alliances and countries and organisations. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U114	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U115	Actually, I wouldn't have come here today to talk about the remote, because we actually agree. Aggressor has to be condemned, we've done it. He must be punished. Ukraine must be assisted. I don't think we have any disagreement here. Maybe [only] in how quickly and how strongly and how thoroughly to do it. But the reason I came here was because Jürgen Ligi, the vice president of the Reform Party, spoke. By completely ignoring the real situation, he announced from here on the remote that we do not have to, we do not need to increase our defence costs. We must forget all forms of defence procurement, as well as the elimination of defence gaps, because this is not necessary. I don't understand where these people live and under what rock they climb out of. We know how Russia has flooded the world with false information, propaganda and demagoguery, and if we have a vice-president of a government coalition in the Riigikogu who joins the putin propaganda, it is extremely regrettable. It's not just a useful idiot because of your position, apologize for the expression, but it's already something far more frightening. It is already a contribution to the destruction of our defence and sovereignty and it is absolutely impossible to tolerate it. Estonia must, as a matter of urgency, close any gaps in its capabilities in national defence. We must, as a matter of urgency, take all measures to defend our sovereignty, our independence. My good colleague Leo Kunnas, here in his speech, highlighted all the necessary issues and questions and things that we must resolve as a matter of urgency, so that we can still look boldly at the future and be able to resist the aggressor and that our allies in NATO can also come to our aid if Estonia is not yet conquered. And for that, I wish us all a very, very strong consensus and strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-01_U116	Thank you. There are no more requests, we can conclude the negotiations. The minister didn't want a word at the end. That concludes our debate, and today's agenda as well. The sitting is adjourned.
