ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U1	Hi! Happy Monday and a beautiful Easter for all of you! We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, inquiries and drafts can be handed over if such a request is to be made. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the draft of the EKRE Group, which amends the law on the organisation of local government in order to allow for referendums in local governments. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the referendum is one of the important instruments of democracy which has been used very little in Estonia, unlike in other European countries. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] As early as last year, I submitted a corresponding draft and, in October, it also passed the first reading here, but afterwards it lies frozen in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Legally, it is not an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, but it is an infringement of the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. It can also be said that this is a coalition obstruction, that is, an obstacle to Parliament's work by taking advantage of the loopholes in the legislation in force. Well, then we'll have to go to another circle. However, the current draft has also reduced the requirement for a participatory quorum, in which case the referendum will become binding. In the frozen bill, it was 40%, now 30%. Indeed, the discussion of which is more adequate or whether a participation quorum is even necessary is appropriate. Thank you. Please take this bill very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U3	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellows! By paraphrasing the words of Tarmo Kruusimäe, I appeal to you, good guardians of the Republic. I hereby submit to the Government of the Republic a draft decision aimed at moving away from our public space and taking appropriate measures for this purpose, the marks, monuments and monuments of the conquest policy of the Russian military forces. This is particularly important in the current situation, because all the monuments that are in our public space actually reflect the opinions and views of our society. That is the purpose of the symbols. If we do not do so, by keeping them, we recognise that these symbols also represent our position on the swamp. I believe that this can't be the case, and that's not the case. The second reason for this [draft] was the debate on the amendment of the Penal Code and other laws that took place here last week, on the 11th working week. Minister Maris Lauri, answering the question, admitted, among other things, that one of the possible objectives of this draft may be dealt with in such a way that it may also concern monuments, but since the legislator did not foresee it at the time, it is unlikely to be the case. That is another reason why this bill is being tabled today. Dear fellows, let us hope that you will support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U6	Thank you. The Isamaa Group will submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic concerning activities in connection with the changed security situation in Europe." We propose to the Government of the Republic to support the deployment of military units of NATO allies with greater military capabilities in Central and Eastern Europe during the preliminary negotiations of the NATO Madrid Summit with NATO allies, without excluding any type of weapons system, including the request for the permanent placement of a brigade-size unit in Estonia, the permanent formation of NATO Baltic air security mission for the air defence mission and the installation of NATO allies' anti-aircraft capabilities in Estonia. If the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden apply to join NATO, the Government of the Republic should support the membership procedure as soon as possible. In the event that the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden request the possible entry into force of NATO's full member status as a guarantee for security collective protection, joint decisions and measures taken by all or some of the Member States of NATO should be supported, as appropriate, in order to provide additional security guarantees to the requesting States from the moment the application is made. The government should support the position that Estonia supports the adoption of Ukraine to NATO in an accelerated manner when it interacts with NATO allies. While, in the course of possible negotiations, Ukraine is seeking diplomatic or military security guarantees from NATO or some NATO Member States in order to ensure its security for the future, the Government of the Republic should express support for these requests in its relations with NATO allies. The government should immediately provide the Riigikogu with an overview of the additional needs of military capabilities and stockpiles, the development of which is necessary for the organisation of the military defence of the Estonian state, in order to protect the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia from the Russian military attack. The Government of the Republic should submit to the Riigikogu a draft law on the faster development of national defence, which gives the Government of the Republic an obligation to develop the capabilities of the overview, including additional expenses for this and the next three years, which, according to the draft law to be submitted, the Government of the Republic must make provision for the Riigikogu in the annual budget. When planning the costs, account should be taken, in the annex to the draft law, of the maximum amount of additional costs to be incurred over and above 2022. The total amount of defence expenditure calculated in the 2009 national budget strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U7	Now please, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws (restructuring the National Defence Investment Centre into a government institution). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and zero inquiries. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U10	Eighty-four envoys signed up to be present. We must now confirm our agenda for this week. The agendas have been distributed to you nicely, so I will immediately vote on the agenda for the 12th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U11	The agenda is supported by 82 delegates, there is no one against and there are no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U12	Now we can start working on this agenda. Today we first have the first reading of the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic as the first item on the agenda. First of all, Minister of Culture Tiit Terik will be the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U13	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In today's session, I will bring you a suitable draft for the Year of Libraries, which concerns the amendment of the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act. Its main purpose is to give the tasks of the Estonian Savings Library and the Estonian Blind Library acting as its subunit to the National Library of Estonia. The change is due to the audit carried out by the Ministry of Culture in 2021, where we assessed the state of services and capabilities of the Estonian Savings Library. Unfortunately, at the time, it became apparent that there are weaknesses in the coverage of the savings library with support services such as marketing, IT solutions and some others [services] that can certainly be improved. In addition, some tasks overlap with those of the National Library, which makes it reasonable to optimize activities. In order to improve the situation and give impetus to the development of library services, it is reasonable to combine similar institutions, [giving] the tasks of the Estonian Savings Library across Estonia to the National Library. This is the solution that is reflected in the draft amendment of the [Law] of the Estonian [National] Library before you today. It is also important to highlight the human aspect here. Usually when institutions are merged or transferred, the question arises as to what happens to people working in one institution or another. None of the employees performing the main tasks will be unemployed, as the National Library will take over most of the employment contracts together with the new tasks. In addition, it is worth noting that there will be no major change in the organisation of work before the completion of the reconstruction of the prominent Tõnismäe building, which I very much hope to achieve by Christmas 2025, as the employees of the Estonian Savings Library will be able to continue the reconstruction of the Tõnismäe building until the end of the reconstruction process. The proposed proposal has a very important impact on social cohesion and on creating better opportunities for people with disabilities. Together with the tasks of the Estonian Savings Library, the National Library is also transferred to the Estonian Blind Library. It is currently located in the main building of the savings library on Suur-Sõjamäe street, which is far from the city centre. There is not enough good transport connection or infrastructure, for example, there are no traffic lights with the required audible signal. After the reconstruction of the National Library of Estonia has ended, the Estonian Blind Library will be located in the centre of Tallinn in the Tõnismäe building. I am pleased to say that the feedback from the Estonian Union of the Blind has also been important in the drafting of this draft and has been taken into account. All the appropriate premises planned for the building, the controls facilitating movement and the reference system suitable for visually impaired persons are also very relevant in the new location. There will also be negotiations with Tallinn City Government to install audible traffic lights in the vicinity of the Tõnismäe building. The second part of the draft concerns the Copyright Act. The transfer of the above tasks of the blind library to the national library is the reason why copyright law is mentioned in the title of this draft. As a result of one of the 2017 European [Union] Directives, literature works can be adapted for blind, partially sighted or otherwise print disabled persons without the author's consent and without payment of a corresponding fee. It will be possible to inform the European Commission of these tasks in the future. Mostly, as I mentioned about notification, this has previously been the task of the Estonian Savings Library. Now, according to the law, the national library, or one institution, is replaced by another. This technical amendment will also be achieved if this law is passed by the honourable Parliament. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, good members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your attention. I'd love to answer your additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U14	Yeah, there are questions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U15	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps you are saying clearly and concretely what this unification will add to the benefits of legal unification and why it will be done so quickly. Why do we have to be done with this by 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U16	I'll start the answer at the end. We have more than six months to do this, I see no reason to say that it would be haste. But what does it do for the better? We have two institutions with similar tasks, the target groups are perhaps somewhat different. We can say that we are, in the same way, improving the quality of the service and making more reasonable use of public money. If we want to bring the savings library and the services provided to the blind to the level that could be, in other words, to improve these conditions, we need additional resources from the state budget. If we take them under the wing of the National Library, there are enough good support services already available and we can offer the library services offered to different target groups in a more cost-effective way than the national view, i.e. we do not have to offer different support services in different locations from different organisations, but we can do this centrally from one place. It is also very important that if people with visual impairments and blind people need to move now to Suur-Sõjamägi, which is an extremely poorly accessible place, then in the future all this will be possible in our lovely National Library on Tõnismägi. This movement issue is also extremely important in terms of the quality of services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U17	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This change in the National Library Council did not raise any questions, but the explanations were very good. However, we know that any changes are always a cause for concern in interest groups. I ask you a little differently than my colleague, Üllar Saaremäe. Is there anything that should be monitored particularly closely in this connection so that the current users of the service do not remain, say, concerned, as the Committee on Culture has, however, been slightly presented to the members of the Committee on Culture today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U19	Thank you very much. It is very important, as you know as a former Minister for Culture, that all the interest groups that are participating in this service would be pleased with the changes that will come and have sufficient knowledge of what will change for them. If you look at what kind of coordination has been given to this bill, the concern has been that the services of the blind library will not be dissolved in any way among the various services of the large library. Its firm guarantee is that the entity providing this service to the blind will, as a so-called separate structural unit, remain in the large library. This task is clearly known to the library's management and certainly to the consumers of this service. The provision of this service in the structural unit is similarly very clear. It doesn't disappear, it doesn't dissolve into other services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U20	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U21	Thank you! I'm even a little embarrassed to ask you questions, but it seems to me that I have to do this. You have emphasised twice today in this remote control that the savings library, which is essentially a repository of low-usual foreign language literature, is almost the same as the national library. Bring me, please, these examples, in which case the savings library and the national library are the same. Secondly, I would also like to say that, in itself, as disabled services, everything that is intended for the blind gets better, what can be opposed to it, on the contrary. But when will that happen? The National Library is closed for at least five years. And so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U22	Thank you very much. I dare not argue with you as your former librarian about what is important or not. I think that once the state has decided that there must be such a service and such an institution, it is important to us. The main thing for the savings library today is that the service provided at their location is also aimed at blind and partially sighted people. I think it's important there too. But as for how long the National Library will be closed and when it will open again, this morning I spoke to the library manager. His hope is that by Christmas 2025 the library could be open. So our hope is that we can transfer these tasks there. How and when this could take place, the law could start to apply from the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U24	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It is a pleasure to finally see the Minister of Culture here. We have the Minister of Education, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economic Affairs here all the time, but the Minister of Culture is rarely seen, so welcome. But I read that 32% of Estonians do not intend to go to the library at all. This is about as much as the residents of Tallinn. Have you ever planned on doing anything about them, or are they just like that they don't need a library?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U25	Thank you. After all, people can visit the library physically or digitally in a very broad way. There are certainly many people who use digital channels to access library services. If you ask them if they are planning to go to the library, they may base their answer on physical presence. The National Library is also developing digital services that allow us to participate in our literary material via digital channels. But there are also people in every society who, unfortunately, are not more interested in libraries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U26	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U27	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We remember that when we had to transpose this directive here, everyone was in favour of it. Then the renewal, modification, of the empty cassette fee, was joyfully started. That is why I have remembered this directive, which is [related to] the need for the blind to be printed. But I'm going to ask you a question as a schematic. If these rights are extended to the National Library and the National Library, in cooperation with some publishers, thinks that, for example, Hargla pharmacist Melchior's trilogy, or what he is, should be translated to the blind, but then suddenly the publisher says that we don't really come up with one so that the blind can translate, so we're just doing another thing for business, and because it's expanded right, they don't have to ask the author. Is this a possible scheme, or is this completely excluded from the scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U28	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to comment on this scheme in this way on the foot of the race, whether it is correct or not. However, as regards both the production of the letter and the production of audio files, which are precisely the nature of the disabled [people's needs], i.e. intended for those who are unable to read themselves, in this case, yes, it is not necessary to ask the author for permission or to pay the royalties. This concerns, in particular, materials aimed at people with disabilities, whether in dotted or as a sound file.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U29	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U30	Good manager! Dear Minister, The National Library is in remodeling. It is natural that if the state builds any public-use building, it also takes into account people with special needs, including the blind and the visually impaired. Is it that in the new, renovated national library all rooms are considered so that all people with special needs can rent books, participate in them, go there? Or is it that several things are put together, but the construction project doesn't take this into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U31	I think that, in the case of a national library overhaul, the creation of different conditions, whether for people with visual or reduced mobility, has been followed up, whether or not we transfer this service from one location to another. I think that in 2022 it is perfectly natural that if we take the reconstruction of a public institution, there will also be very clear monitoring of how people with disabilities can cope in this building.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U32	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. This question was raised by your multiple claim that it is very difficult for blind people to go to Suur-Sõjamäe Street. Blind and partially sighted people, as we know, live all over Estonia. Just in terms of information, you could say whether such access elsewhere in Estonia is good or how. I know some libraries well, but maybe you could do some generalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U34	Thank you. The network of libraries across Estonia is actually very [tight]. We have a little under 1000 libraries, and I don't dare say that everyone has good conditions now. I don't dare point out any places in particular here, but I believe that smaller country libraries are delivering under the conditions they have been physically given, be that as it may, I don't know if it's a small library in Heaven. If there is a reader or a borrower who has problems with either eyesight or movement, they will be adequately assisted. Are there sufficient conditions for blind people and people with reduced mobility in all Estonian libraries? I think we have a lot of work to do here. But I guess this infrastructure has evolved through time. If we think about the scale of this service in the capital, I very much hope that this quality of service will be taken to a whole new level on Tõnismägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U35	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, As regards the cost and revenue section of the explanatory memorandum, as the preservation of digital data in the savings library is critical, additional resources are still needed by the National Library to mitigate IT risks and develop services. However, it is said that there is no need for additional fixed costs. From this, I conclude that they are therefore needed for investment. What amount of money are we talking about in the case of investments to mitigate IT risks and what are we going to acquire?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U37	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, if we were to leave the two institutions separate, we should develop new capabilities in the savings library and in the library of the blind, also in the digital part. We can talk about the special-purpose reserve of the National Library, such as EUR 82500 [euro], we can talk about, for example, EUR 52000 [euro] for the main activity, which concerns savings in economic costs. The digital services and IT services that exist in the National Library are unlikely to be split in half very easily, so that one goes to serve the library of the blind and the other to the [library]. But probably, if we developed these services in two places, these digital improvements would be quite large. Given the current economic situation and the prices of digital services, it is currently very difficult to predict. However, if [to be mindful] of the rational use of state money, the development of these services by the National Library is certainly much more reasonable and rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U39	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I have learned that the savings library also receives literature in Estonian. But the National Library says we should pick up the word "in foreign language." I do not understand whether the savings library will be a collection of foreign language books in the future, or whether there will also be a place for literature in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U40	Thank you. There is certainly a place in both foreign language and Estonian literature. The savings library also includes those that are not very active in their use. Since the lack of space in our libraries is a very important issue, it is possible to store the information that is not used too often in the savings library. The copies, which may be more than it is reasonable to keep on shelves, can also be stored there. Certainly, according to its best knowledge and expertise, the library will be able to review the extent to which it is reasonable to maintain in the library, and what it is reasonable to direct the macular structure, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U41	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I see that in 2021 the National Library's reconstruction project was awarded the year of the digital [construction] cluster. If you look at what it says, what good things are going to do, there is really no word about improving the opportunities for people with special needs. Maybe as Minister of Culture in your ministry, you're still looking into whether such things are considered in that house. If you move a library of blind people there, this whole house should have taken into account that people with this special need could also walk around this house. And the second [question] is this: can you tell me where the library in Estonia has created these opportunities so that blind people can cope on their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U43	Thank you. I will start answering from behind: it is difficult for me to say what all these libraries are where the blind can do on their own. I will certainly find out the list and forward it to the honourable member of the Riigikogu. As regards the first part of your question as to whether or not these services are reflected there, this audit, which is also one of the motives of this bill, is with the date of 2021 and this has also led to these tasks being transferred to the National Library. Today, before I came to Parliament, I discussed it with the head of the National Library. His confirmation was that the service in their house would be the best possible in terms of content, and it would also include the physical environment in which the service will be provided. The reconstruction of the library has certainly taken into account the fact that there are people in our society who need a specific approach. We have the blind in the order of 2000, with those who have other disabilities that need special attention to become part of public services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U44	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your answers, you referred to the fact that if the savings library and the national library were not put together, the development of these digital systems would be more expensive. In this sense, I do not understand that two institutions can also use one system, nor does it mean that if there are two institutions there should be two systems, the state can still set up a single system that can be used by several libraries if they remain separate. The explanatory memorandum also states that many tasks on the savings library and the national library overlap and relate to the functioning of the library network. So what are the similarities that are today, and what are the differences when you found it reasonable to put these two institutions together?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U46	Thank you. Of course, you can also approach it, as the honourable member of the Riigikogu said, that two institutions are using one system. By trusting professionals who have carried out a service audit and evaluating what is the best possible way to offer these services to the target group and have proposed to the ministry and through us the legislator to merge these two service providers into one of the strong service providers, we have therefore prepared this draft for you. Of course, it is possible to provide the same service in different organisations. However, in view of the aspect of this audit and the best possible use of resources, we can see that the National Library as the competence centre, which could be the most competent authority on this issue and has also examined this issue for itself, is the optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U47	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In one of your replies, you indicated that the services that go from the savings library, including the library of the blind, to the national library, I now apologise if I quote you wrongly, 'do not blur, fragment or disappear'. At least the thought was the same. Can you tell me how long it's gonna be like this, they won't blur, they won't split, they won't disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U49	Thank you. I hope this will be the case throughout this service. This, too, was one of the questions that I once again discussed with the head of the National Library today, imagining what questions might be at the heart of members of the Riigikogu. I also asked what has been pointed out so that it does not blur or disappear. I have also been assured today that this service will be very clearly the focus of their attention and will not become blurred among other services. So I can give you the conviction that the head of the library has given me. I trust him on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U50	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U51	Thank you very much. Good minister! I will continue with my question, Tiit, about services and risk mitigation. You still did not respond very clearly to what amounts we were talking about. You told me where you were going to save and that there might be some extra resources. However, it also says here that you are already going to apply for these amounts from the special-purpose funds of the Government of the Republic reserve or, if you cannot, from 2023 to 2026. The 2005 RES for the following year. I think you still have the information you need there, and at least what size we're talking about, we're talking about a million, we're talking about 10 million or we're talking about 10,000.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U52	Thank you. I don't think it's about millions. I admit to you that a very specific number cannot be given to you here, I do not have the knowledge today of what the volume of the procurement of these services might be. If you're interested in this matter, I'd be happy to let you know as soon as I know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U53	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U54	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The first question is whether we can amend the library law in these two laws and review the numbers or figures there. The second question is this. I have approached you with the problem that the Estonian Society for Nature Protection had its own large library at Koidu 80, but they are now forced to move away. They've already eliminated half the library, but the other half that was still there was complicated. Then they were advised to take the books to the savings library. There was an extremely unique, I don't know what name it was, but an extremely unique encyclopedia series. Do you have any information that the material of the library of the Estonian Society for Nature Conservation is dignified somewhere in the archives?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U55	Thank you. For a nature conservation library, I have no knowledge that they have a problem with that. They have not addressed me on this issue. If this issue is still topical, I believe that the National Library will find an adequate answer to this question. If the Minister's involvement is also needed here, I would kindly agree to help resolve this issue. The way in which this bill is processed, whether changes, improvements, additions are made, is within the competence of the members of the honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U56	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U57	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This is certainly the case, with universal access and universal design for modern [buildings] constructions or also renovations, restorations, conversions will certainly be taken into account. It is not just people with reduced mobility or vision; people also have many other special needs. My question is that the savings library currently located in Suur-Sõjamäe and the [library] offering services to blind and partially sighted persons are being transferred to the national library, which will, in good case, open the doors at Christmas 2025. Does this decision mean that it is done in the sense of merging systems, but the blind and partially sighted will continue to receive the service from Suur-Sõjamägi during this period?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U58	Thank you. You're right. The amendment of the law does not interrupt the provision of the service in any way. Legal changes, if approved by the Riigikogu, will apply from 1 January next year. The provision of services in normal locations will continue until it is possible to move to renovated premises.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U59	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the next report. I invite Jaak Juske, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Committee on Culture discussed this draft law at its meeting on 12 April this year. Aadu Must, Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin were present. In addition, our committee's good advisers and staff were present, and Margit Sutrop was absent from the committee. Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture, Tarvi Siits, Deputy Chancellor of Sport Tarvi Pürn, Deputy Head of the Department of Cultural Diversity, Eda Silberg, and Ülle Talihärm, Adviser to the Department of Cultural Heritage, as well as Councillor Katarina Buddrik, were invited. The debate was as follows: First, Minister Tiit Terik gave an overview of the draft law initiated by the government, after which the members of the Commission had some questions. Namely, Üllar Saaremäe wanted to know who owns the savings library and how the financing of its current activities will take place in the future. Saaremäe also asked what was the reason for the changes. Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture, replied that this was a state institution managed by the Ministry. The tasks of the Savings Library will be transferred to the National Library together with expenses and state budget resources. Terik added that some time ago the Ministry carried out an audit of the functioning of the services in the savings library, which revealed that the available funds were not able to finance enough support services, IT capacity and the accounting side were weak. It is possible to develop these support services better when you are under the National Library. Needvi Sits added that the current location of the savings library on Suur-Sõjamäe Street is uncomfortable for visually impaired persons, and getting a service from the national library in the centre of the city greatly improves the situation of the visually impaired. It is also important for visually impaired people to develop the IT capabilities of the library, as they are provided with IT solutions. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked whether the staff of the savings library would move to the national library and whether some of them would lose their jobs. Minister Terik replied that the function of the head of the savings library was no longer required in the joint institution. At the moment, this contract of employment is fixed-term. But the rest of the tasks and staff are moving under the National Library. There is no provision for staffing in the context of changes. Signe Kivi then asked about the savings library's savings and exchange collection. Tiit Terik replied that physical books would remain in the current premises of the savings library and that in the future these collections would be moved to the planned heritage repository. The services will be available comfortably from the National Library. For example, if necessary, books will be ordered for them. Finally, Aadu Black, the chairman of the committee, proposed that Jaak Juske be appointed rapporteur for the commission, propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 18 April, and propose that the first reading be closed. The Commission unanimously supported all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U61	Thank you. So good of a report, no questions asked. We can go to the negotiations. Ivi Eenmaa, please! There's time, easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, what if there's a person in this room, by chance or not, who's had to deal with these things for decades. I will tell you once again, and I am sorry, Minister, I will also tell you once again to come here and say... I'm asking for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U63	Yeah. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U64	... to talk about the fact that the National Library and the Savings Library are almost the same! I'm gonna urinate a little bit. No, it's not! One is the National Library, there is an international explanation for what it means. In Estonia, he still operates in the duties of the Parliamentary Library and so on. But the former depositary, the savings library, is a repository of scarce literature and is intended for all Estonian libraries. You can give away what you don't need actively. Basically, there is Russian literature for you to note, also accepted in Estonian and so on. But that's it. I'll tell you why I'm on the remote. I'm here to tell you to expect a cultural event or cultural theories or librarian generalisations from this bill, and there's no point. It's not here. In fact, it is to some extent a reduction in such dull bureaucracy, that is, it is possible to shove one authority down to another, and that is the whole story, perhaps one director's salary and one secretary's salary. All the other things will remain. So don't wait here for anything [other]. But what I said might have to be done. So I'm not in the remote to say we're voting it off at first reading, not at all. But I want to explain how some very simple things have been made quite difficult for us and quite thick with such, I don't know, bureaucratic records. This could have been done a lot easier, and the draft could have been mentioned more simply. So, serving blind people, honestly, this is something that Estonia is not doing very well with. By the way, for your information, it won't get any better in the next five years, as long as the new house isn't ready. The minister told me three years. Let's see who's right. But the fact is, it won't heal in that time, it'll all be there. The main mistake is not even here in the savings library and in the future in the national library, but in the city of Tallinn and in the city library, who could have served their people more easily, because all over Estonia these talking books are sent home. So knowing these things is what it is. But on top of that, I'd say, when is all this really gonna happen? Something will probably happen in five years' time, and then perhaps in ten or 30 years' time, when two joint museum collections and memory facilities are built in Estonia, one in Northern Estonia, one in South Estonia. When they're ready, I want you to pay attention, these books are gonna disappear and the house can be sold. But it might happen in 30 or 50 years, I don't know. So what I want to say to you is that yes, a little bit of bureaucracy like this and all of this is being carried out with great effort in the form of a very unconventional bill. But let's take him, maybe someday it'll get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U65	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U66	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic, who didn't exactly hear, maybe keepers! Maybe I wouldn't be so pessimistic that we're going to pass this law, maybe it'll get better. The library law was last dealt with, I think... I saw that the last version expired in 2010. In 2017, when we started joining the directive, the Estonian authors' group looked at the opening of the Copyright Act, and then it went to the empty tape fee, which is a kind of question, we know it. But the question that was addressed to the Minister. Paragraph 4 (2) (1) of the Estonian [People's] Library Act states that there should be one library in a place of up to 10000 inhabitants and, if there is more than that, 15,000 [per resident] could be one library in cities. We have Kristiine district with 32644 residents and 0 libraries. Does it change or doesn't it change? We were told that it was good to drive a troll from Kristiine, reach the National Library, or drive one more stop and reach the Tallinn Central Library, which is a building between the real school and the English College. We were talking about the library. I'm a great reader, but there's not enough time for my reading to be so great. So I'm not the first speaker of every bibliophile. But I don't think that's the solution. I'm maybe the old man, the greens, you can even come boxing with me if you want, but I'll still print out the paperwork. I'm such a old school, which means I can't develop. Digiliger's not for me. I'm already checking the screen, and I'm sick of it. The other one that pollutes the brain with such insane information, the television, I don't want to watch at all. The minister was a little inaccurate here. If an audit was needed for the blind library, you can hear that it was not best presented. When is the library law even coming to the Riigikogu? Already in my previous composition, I was anxious that I wanted to deal with it, and it was said that he would come. Now that he's here, all we have is the law of the National Library and the copyright law, which is being crushed. But we're not dealing with the library law right now. It is terrible to hear that 32% of Estonians do not read books. But my question is, what do we do for [reading]? After all, we have developed all kinds of things: the library bus, book rentals, I like the living library that the Association of Estonian Scouts is doing. What are these developments now? So what happens now to the people of Kristiine? Are we just putting together the library of the blind and the library that's there, the national library that's in the renovation anyway, but there's still a zero library in Kristiine? During the previous term, most of the people in Kristiine district began to support my idea that there could be a library in Kristiine, because people find that during the winter it is not very convenient to move to Tallinn Central Library, [the library] could be close to home. If the law says there should be two libraries, that's the problem I wanted to refer to. The simple thing I wanted to say is that if the author is not asked for permission and not paid for doing this book for the visually impaired, then commercially we know exactly as with school textbooks, that if you buy a textbook, you get a workbook for free, or if you buy a workbook, you get a textbook for free, that you can come up with an entrepreneur who says that now we wanted to do one very interesting [book], why not, "Lord of the Rings" for under-readers, and then say that we really don't come out, we're gonna do the sights too, and we're not gonna ask for copyright or pay. This layout is what should be ruled out, in my opinion. So there's a lot of input to give here. I hope the Ministry doesn't say we don't agree. We must agree, because this is the will of the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U67	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 559 be terminated. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U68	Today's second item is the presentation by the Minister for Rural Affairs of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" (Estonia's food and rural policy challenges in a changing economic and security environment). This is Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, please. In the meantime, I will specify to you that the length of the report is 35 minutes, and any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question, followed by negotiations between the representatives of the political groups. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U69	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Estonian people in our villages, towns and cities! Agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, the food industry and food culture are areas covering Estonia, which play an important role in the historical self-consciousness of Estonian rural and coastal peoples and in shaping the well-being and living environment of our people. My presentation is based on the framework of the "Estonia 2035" strategy and the "Agricultural and Fisheries Development Plan 2030" or "Põka 2030" strategy. We all understand that the political and economic context in one of the green turns, the corona crisis, the energy crisis and the war in Ukraine has changed dramatically since these strategies were approved. The world is no longer the same as before 24 February this year. Food security has become equivalent to other security. The overall objective agreed in the Development Plan "Põka 2030" was preferred, the environment and biodiversity were maintained, the food sector companies were successful and rural and coastal communities were viable, with sustainable food production and a functioning rural area. The health and well-being of our people must be at the heart of food security issues, and we are producing food for these people. Its essential prerequisites are human knowledge, soil biodiversity and clean water in our water bodies. Green, digital and other policy developments with laws and state budgets are only tools. As of 1 January 2021, more than 400,000 people lived in rural and coastal areas of Estonia, i.e. villages, towns and small towns. In the business sectors related to "Põka 2030" there were some 15650 companies with more than 64000 employees. Finding a balance between security, both self-sufficiency and export-oriented production and future human health and well-being objectives is not an easy task. We can see that Denmark, Ireland and many other strong agricultural areas are no longer only proud of the statistics on yield or milk dairies, as trends have changed. Food safety and quality, as well as animal welfare, are increasingly important to people. On the other hand, the external trade balance of our food, which is about EUR 300 million to our detriment, must also not be forgotten. I hope that, despite the multiple price increases in energy, fertilisers and other production inputs, or precisely because of this, our companies will be able to compete in both old and new markets by supporting knowledge transfer and innovation. There are two sides to the "Põka 2030" vision. First: Estonian food is appreciated. Two: it's good to live in the country. According to Statistics Estonia, rural areas employ 27.4% of total employment, or almost 180000 people. Thus, over 50,000 of the 23,4000 people of working age living in rural areas work in a larger city. On the other hand, the figures show good news: the proportion of children born in rural areas is rising. When 26.7% of all children were born in rural areas in 2016, 30.3%, or 4007 children, were born in 2020. This shows that life improves in the country, and many young families want to move to the country. I will also stop in myths about food and food policy, which need to be broken, because it is difficult to reach working solutions without a diagnosis of the problems and without having the facts. It is now clear to everyone who thinks that ensuring our daily food is part of a broad-based national defence, both today and in the future. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that food and food policy-making are an area with many diverse issues, where even with the help of scientists it is difficult to reach consensus. Without increased awareness of the parties, conflicts and conflicts between the opportunities and interests of interest groups tend to grow, for example between small and large enterprises, between conventional and organic producers, between livestock farmers and animal conservationists, between urban and rural inhabitants. It is difficult to achieve a situation where the majority of the parties would be satisfied with the legislative process, both in terms of inclusion and in terms of results. State security and preparedness for crises in the food security perspective. The action plan for the Estonian 2035 strategy has identified security and security as one of the development needs and considered it important to ensure security in all circumstances and to improve preparedness for crises. Last year was marked by the fact that the term "food security" came more strongly into our consciousness, both politicians and statesmen, the press and society. It's important. The importance of food security has shown us both the corona crisis and the most current event, the Kremlin aggression in Ukraine. The country was already involved in ensuring food security before the war in Ukraine. A draft Act on Crisis Preparedness is under way, where, alongside electricity and gas supply, communication and banking services, the provision of food security is also identified as a vital service and the providers of vital services are identified. The availability and price increase of the necessary inputs to keep production in operation have become an important issue. In the current security situation, under the terms of sanctions and prohibitions, the supply of fertiliser, feed and fuel is decreasing and price increases have already reached both consumers and food producers. The drastic rise in the price of energy carriers has hit many both grain and livestock farmers. However, it is clear that this is a temporary market shock. It will take some time for new supply chains to be developed and the economic measures taken by countries to mitigate shock will have an impact. However, in the current war situation, it is crucial, from a food security point of view, that maximum food production capacity be maintained and that producers do not cease their activities this year due to higher input prices. In order to ensure food security, the country plans to build up a grain security reserve and direct crisis relief measures are being developed both by the government and by the European Union. But just as extensive national defence is Estonian food security not only for diligent farmers or heads of state to do. The hard end is in fact in the hands of the consumer, especially the informed consumer, who, for example, by favouring high-quality pork from Estonia, can help to support a sector that has been hit hard in the crisis. By supporting Estonian production, we can also strengthen those sectors where self-sufficiency is not yet 100%. If every one of us can volunteer for national defence, for example, by joining the Defence League, then there is no need to go any further than to the right counter in the store to support the Food Protection Union. I believe that if we do not guarantee food security, while also preserving the environment and human health, the whole country, as such, will be built on sand. How can food security goals be achieved in a sustainable way? In addition to crisis aid and incentives, we must also urgently start discussing how to achieve food security goals in a sustainable way, i.e. how we produce the food we need. We want a food system that is sustainable. It begins with our daily choices as an individual, family, community and society. Food, health and vitality are closely linked. In order for the system to be balanced, economic benefits must be guaranteed for all parties involved. However, economic benefits must not arise at the expense of the environment or human health. The "Estonia 2035" strategy aims to develop an environment that supports people's health, which is linked to strengthening the Estonian economy, people's innovativeness and responsibility. The objective of the European Commission's "Agricultural plate" strategy is to achieve a sustainable food system. What does that mean? We need a more socially responsible food system and a management culture that will gradually reduce the environmental and climate footprint and contribute to human health, economics and the living environment of all of us at home on planet Earth. What does a green transition and a sustainable food system mean for food producers and processors? Are our current knowledge, management methods and financial resources sufficient to ensure food security and green transition changes? By now, it's clear that it probably isn't. The planning of EU money for the period started is aimed at adapting sectors through the Agenda "Põka 2030" to green transition through knowledge transfer and giving new impetus to entrepreneurship. For example, we are preparing the use of the CAP budget of the European Union for the new budget period. The objective of the CAP in the new budgetary period of the Union is to strengthen a smart, resilient and diversified agricultural sector that guarantees food security, promotes environmental and climate action and improves the socio-economic situation in rural areas. The promotion of knowledge, digital transfer and innovation are important in this respect. We will have around 1.6 billion euros of European Union and Estonian state money to use for this in the next five years. However, it is more important to see what lies behind these numbers and keywords. We need to think now about how every euro invested would help our companies to cope better with future risks and crises and ensure food security. The implementation of the common fisheries policy of the European Union shall be financed by the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund. The aim is to facilitate the adaptation of the fisheries sector to structural changes in order to increase the vitality, competitiveness and income of Estonian fisheries. We want to significantly expand domestic fish farming, mainly in the sea. We are also making resources more sustainable for fishing on Lake Peipsi and we are also improving electronic surveillance. The green transition is linked to the changing expectations of consumers. The mindset and expectations of society are changing. There are also changing expectations of agriculture and food production, including the environment in which our food is produced and the values of food produced. Increasingly informed consumers will carefully study the origin of food, the use of plant protection products, animal-bird welfare and chemical preservatives in food when choosing their daily diet. If we look at what is happening elsewhere in Europe, we will increasingly understand the opportunities offered by the green transition to national economies. Everyone tries to find their niche in it. The European Union's goal is to become the world's first climate-neutral community by 2050. The "Estonia 2035" strategy also sets an ambitious goal: to achieve a climate-neutral economy. This requires a change in agriculture. At the same time, the potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the agricultural sector is limited. In today's new security reality, it is important to maintain food security and the European Union's food self-sufficiency capacity. Food is more lacking in the world today, and we must avoid choices that could lead to a reduction in the land used for food production. The green transition must take account of national specificities and find sustainable solutions. I have emphasised both in Brussels and here that there is a need to take account of the specificities of the Member States in guiding the changes in the green transition. The obligation to meet the climate targets puts the energy crisis and the war on the hands of the Member States of the European Union to serious challenges. When looking for sustainable solutions to the cost concerns of agricultural inputs, it is fair to ask in the long term whether it is reasonable to postpone the release of mineral fertilisers from dependence if their prices have increased just as much because of the recently quadrupled price of natural gas. I think that, in cooperation with scientists, we should look at the possibilities of cutting costs and increasing revenue. Estonian food safety. Estonian food has been evaluated, the composition of Estonian food is safe for human health. We follow the principle of commitment to food safety that a person has one life and health that is of the utmost value. I will give you an example of how to fight antibiotic resistance, or AMR. AMR is a complex problem in shaping an environment conducive to health, including human health, veterinary medicine, livestock farming, agriculture, the environment and trade. The task of the Ministry of Rural Affairs in the fight against AMR is to direct veterinary medicine and livestock production and to ensure the availability of laboratory services. It is in all our interests that drugs that have been treated with animals do not enter our bodies or our children's bodies through food. We have drawn up an AMR action plan and we are contributing money as well as people to a better understanding of what medicines are used and how much animals are used. In 2019 we launched the RITA 1 research project "Opportunities to manage and reduce microbes resistance." To this end, we are setting up a database and we are working on raising awareness. The blind pursuit of short-term productivity in the food supply chain is detrimental to animal health first and then to human health. In short, we are part of nature and nature must be respected. A wise farmer and fisherman who cooperates with nature has always known this. The key to gaining consumer confidence is in the hands of the food manufacturer; trust must be earned. Given Estonia's small size, one of the opportunities for development is the networking of food producers and consumers. Each family could have its own familiar food producer near home, whom he trusts. And not only trust blindly, but occasionally also visits, open farms, open ports and open food industries days, where you can ask everything, including what is put in the sausage and what is in the wine. We understand that a fair price must be paid for healthy quality food. This cannot be low in a situation where input prices are increasing. If the pricing of food producers, processors and distributors in the food supply chain is transparent and fair, I believe that the cost of access to healthy food for less insured groups is also ready to be offset by local authorities and public authorities, such as in schools and social welfare institutions. Knowledge transfer helps to adapt to change and remain competitive. In order for our food producers to make greater use of the latest information in their activities, we plan to review the advisory system and the organisation of knowledge transfer, integrating them more into a single flow of knowledge. So we plan to join one of the strong research institutions of the Estonian Plant Education Institute and the Centre for Agricultural Research. We have also multiplied the volume of studies that will allow the necessary developments in the field to be seen in depth and in larger whole pieces. As far as possible, the share of R &amp; D and innovation in the state budget should be raised above the 1% permitted across political parties. Estonian soil and food security versus energy security are important topical issues. If we compare the secondary risks associated with managing food and energy security risks, we must be careful not to jeopardise food security by ensuring energy security as a country. I mean that farmers increasingly want to build solar parks on their land. If energy is paid more than food, this development seems inevitable. But with balanced planning, both have a chance, and there's a need for both. The gold of our people is black soil. What does a sustainable food system mean for a food consumer, for every one of our people? Making the food system more sustainable is one of the priorities of creating a healthy food environment where it would be easy to make choices based on health and environmental protection. Creating a food environment that facilitates healthy eating will bring benefits to consumers' health and quality of life and reduce health-related costs across society. We all want the honey we buy to be real honey, not sugar syrup, so that the olive oil we use for cooking is not produced in accordance with a low standard, and our food does not contain any antibiotic residues that could put our health at risk now or in the future. Consumers must be given the opportunity to make their health-supporting and environmentally friendly, or sustainable, choices. We want food packages to have an easy-to-eat label system that targets good shopping choices. It is also necessary to reduce the levels of salt, sugar and saturated fatty acids in food in order to facilitate health-enhancing purchasing choices. To shorten supply chains and to buy food produced as close as possible to your home will contribute to a better origination on the label. These changes have already been introduced on a voluntary basis by many food and food industries. But let us not forget that 10% of people in the world suffer from hunger and, at the same time, 39% of adults are overweight, as much as 52.7% in the European Union. In order to solve these problems, we need to waste less food and feed more consciously and healthierly. Organic food for schools and kindergartens. In order to shape healthy lifestyles and eating habits for children and to give them good knowledge of organic farming and environmental preservation, the issue needs to be addressed as early as possible. It is therefore necessary to support the provision of organic food in schools and kindergartens. Like any family, every school and kindergarten could have their own farms. This year we will support the use of organic raw materials in schools and kindergartens, where at least 20% of the raw materials used for food production come from organic farming. In addition, it is planned to organise training and counselling for caterers, schools and municipalities. The budget for this year is 0.8 million euros and applications will be accepted in the second half of the year. Every following year, the budget will have to be increased by around EUR 0.4 million. We design Estonia as a recognised development centre for the circular bioeconomy. We want to create a support system to support the creation of new value chains and business models, support pilot projects and become a recognised development centre for Estonian sustainable bioeconomy. During 2022, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, together with other ministries, will draw up a roadmap for the development of the circular bioeconomy for Estonia as a whole as well as for larger regions. We want to replace current production inputs with a high climate footprint and create new economic sectors and opportunities for increasing added value, which would also allow all food waste and similar resources to be smartly cashed. It is a painful fact that today many of our farmers cannot manage without the support of the European Union. We intend to support the enhancement of bio-resources in the near future with nearly EUR 24 million, which comes from the European Union's recovery plan. Here we need investment in technology, product development and the introduction of waste that has been discarded, all in cooperation with scientists. Such investments are carried out by large-scale major projects that strengthen the sustainable growth potential of the Estonian economy. In addition to food losses and the re-use of food residues in the circular bio-economy chain, it is worth recalling President Lennart Meri's flying country-language saying: "The situation is shit, but it is the fertilizer of our future." When a farmer mixes with straw, making shitty manure to preserve and grow soil biodiversity, our biogas manufacturers move buses and cars. Such bioenergy works in synergy with food security and green transition targets. Reducing food losses and waste is our sacred duty. In the current circumstances, it is particularly appalling to know that a third of the food produced in the world is wasted and that in Estonian homes, about 54 kilograms of food per household is wasted per year. The obvious wisdom of a peasant is that before we start expanding and intensifying production, the waste must be stopped. In order to reduce food waste, the Ministry of Rural Affairs cooperates with the Ministry of the Environment on the basis of a food waste prevention plan and with the Ministry of Social Affairs on the promotion of food donation. In cooperation with Estonia's large dairy industries, we have come to rethinking the labelling of dairy products. While from Soviet times dairy products were marked with the expiry date "Permissible until..." in Estonia, the technology has now evolved so much that the industries could switch to the label "Best Before...'. This will give the home consumer a message that it is worth tasting, sniffing and observing dairy products on the expiry date, rather than launching them into the trash bin. In addition, it allows chains and dairy producers to donate these products on expiry date. It is clear that the food system will not become more sustainable if its party's food habits do not change. Everyone is part of the system, from children to parents. A human-centred country, involvement of partners, joint action, regional development and good rural development must live in Estonia as a whole! Next, I would like to talk about the most important ways of promoting rural areas and I will start with a piece of memory: we are nobody alone, two are better, together is very good. The country and the rural economy do not go far without joint action. In business, yesterday's competitor may be a cooperation partner and today's partner may be a partner tomorrow once you have considered the possibilities of home and world markets together. Already in ancient Rome, a proverb was known, which sums up the point of collective action: cooperation grows small, conflicts disintegrate large. I would like joint action to have a good wind in the wings, not only of grain but also of dairy and other sectors. This is crucial. Home to the country. As I mentioned earlier, rural areas are home to a third of our people and the proportion of children born in rural areas is increasing. This is a sign of trust in young families. The "Estonia 2035" strategy aims to ensure that public services are of high quality, predictable and accessible in every region. There is a lot of work to be done for this. One of the fundamental rights of a person is to choose his place of work and place of residence. The way we work and where we work, together with technological progress, has already been changing for a longer time. But the corona crisis gave it a new meaning and amplified many of the trends we have seen. This has resulted in an increasing interest in choosing rural areas as their place of residence and living environment. However, the long-term trends leading to the concentration of people and economic activity in larger centres have led to a significant market failure in the real estate market. A paradoxical situation has arisen in which people are ready to move to the country, but the low market value of property located beyond the centres and the resulting claims for additional guarantees when applying for a loan make it difficult or impossible for many. We have launched a pilot project in favour of moving to the countryside in Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia, together with the Rural Promotion Foundation, to address this problem. It is a pleasure to note that seven families have already benefited from the proposed solutions. If this pilot project succeeds, it should be extended to other counties. Rural calculation methodology for an ex-ante assessment of the impact of all national policies. Another important initiative agreed in the "Põka 2030" development plan, which we are launching this year, is the rural calculation methodology for an ex-ante assessment of the impact of all national policies. The Government of the Republic approved the proposal to develop a methodology for calculating rural development in April last year. We are working with experts from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to develop a guide on how to assess the impact of state development plans and draft legislation on rural and coastal communities, following the example of Great Britain and other countries. It is important that the impact of each country is examined in different parts of Estonia, including community representative associations, so that every village can read and provide our families with the necessary public services. Our common goal must be to ensure that the countryside is well-lived and that political decisions are based on the specificities and needs of the regions. Developing new local development strategies for the CAP. The national cooperation network between the Estonian Leader Union and the Estonian Village Movement is so important for maintaining Estonia's rural life that we have allocated more state resources than on average in the European Union. The starting points for local development strategies for the new Leader action in 2023/2027 are the green and digital revolution. The development of strategies will create opportunities to start implementing activities at local level as soon as possible. For the first time, it is also possible to focus attention at local level on the activities planned under the European Social Fund+, in particular to improve the availability and quality of care services, in order to alleviate maintenance burdens, ensure human dignity and increase social inclusion. I therefore call on all interested parties to participate in developing new development strategies for rural and coastal areas and in shaping the future of rural areas. People, our people. Repeating is the mother of wisdom. The development plans, laws and state budget money approved by the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic do nothing on their own, people think, decide and do nothing. Our people, working together. This year we have held many round table discussions on the energy crisis, the problems associated with the war in Ukraine and the possibilities for solutions. At the beginning of March, we also organised partners' day, where we talked about the involvement and cooperation of stakeholders separately. Together, we strive to be better and better prepared for new trials. Food security is not possible without environmental protection. It's all our business, together we're stronger, together we're moving forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U70	Thank you. We can move on to the round of questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this brief presentation. I am urged to ask for this principle in strategy 2035 that a reduction in land suitable for food production must be avoided. You said you had to find a reasonable compromise, because farmland is also suitable for solar cells and so on. I don't expect it to be done on half of the farmland, but I'm sure it will be done in some parts. How can we ensure this reasonable compromise in practice, if there is also a need, interest and pressure to put solar panels there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U72	Thank you, Reverend Asker! That's a very good question. In today's security situation and, in fact, in the new energy crisis, we need to take into account that land prices and its value are constantly increasing. This means that food production in the countryside is not a monopoly, so there is a great deal of pressure to replace it with other sources of income. If, statistically, rents in Estonia are slightly less than 70%, this indicates that not all land belonging to food production is directly used by farms, but owners can change this [use] according to income opportunities. Looking at the latest land auctions, we have noticed that those companies that want to build solar parks and also sell electricity to the grid offer very high prices compared to agriculture, so that farmers are no longer competitive. We have worked with a large number of municipalities in the Ministry of Rural Affairs and have tried to find ways of protecting the minimal value of agricultural land, which is a high bony road. We can say that in very many cases this experience has been positive, or local authorities also understand the value of soil. If soil is damaged, it will take years to rebuild it, not centuries, but hundreds of millennia. That means it's important. We are also currently in the process of defending valuable agricultural land in Parliament. We will try to make further proposals on this in the near future in order to continue the debate. But once again, agricultural land, which we have more than a million hectares at its disposal, is an important asset and must certainly be protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U73	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U74	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Minister of Hää! I've got another question. After all, we know exactly what condition farmers are in today's day. Production prices seem to be much more expensive, but input prices have still risen by hundreds of percent. My question is, what kind of help is the government giving to farmers with additional budgets? We know that the government did not put the top-up in [the budget] last year, so we can say that we do not have the top-up in this year's budget. The European Union has said it will provide 2.5 million and the government will have the opportunity to add 5 million more. The government also has the possibility to reduce the excise duty on blue heating. So, what's the thing about the hat that the government's sending this way, because it's not like an empty bag is standing up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U75	Thank you, Honourable Asker. It is certain that both today's government and previous and future governments must support the agricultural sector and the food industry in a broader sense in times of crisis. Some of the subsidy packages that have already been granted have been multiple. I am thinking here of two exceptional subsidies, plus an additional energy support package, which also concerned possible price reductions in the inputs of companies. We are at such a stage in the budgetary process that we hope that an additional budget can come out of the government this Thursday. We have made requests in both parts that you mentioned, both for special diesel and for additional crisis assistance in relation to what the European Union is proposing. But right now, I can't say 100 percent exactly what it's going to be. I can only confirm that both parties have taken this issue seriously and are making an effort to ensure that there is an additional package of aid in agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U77	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I heard you say it's good to live on the beach. But tomorrow we have a discussion with the Beachers on how to make this life so-called normal. I ask you how you feel about developing a beach life policy document or something, especially to enable the coasters to fish, it would be a right to fish. Right now the people of Lasnamäe, let's say it's ferocious, take it away first, even though those who live on the beach would want to fish too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U78	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Perhaps you could clarify, were you referring to professional fishermen or recreational fishermen? Recreational fishermen? This particular area is not in my administration. All I can say is that different fishing authorisations are indeed extremely popular and opportunities are decreasing very quickly. But I wouldn't just stop at Lasnamägi. If we look at where these permits are applied for, we will see that they are applied for across Estonia. This is part of our rural and fisheries culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U79	Honourable questioner, unfortunately, the second question cannot be asked. You have to stay inside the frame that is. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Could you open up in a few words what is the state of play in the negotiations on the common agricultural policy with the European Commission now looking at Estonia? Are Estonia's views taken into account and how are these positions? Are the prospects for Estonia positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U81	Thank you. Indeed, Estonia was one of the 19 or 20 countries of the European Union that presented this strategy plan at the end of the year, with this principle in order to get feedback quickly from the Commission. We have indeed received the first feedback and are currently in an additional phase of the procedure. On the one hand, we could say that our proposals have been viewed positively. However, we note that the European Commission, on several points, points to the fact that climate and environmental ambition could perhaps be greater. In fact, I would point out that neither in the first pillar nor in the second pillar have we been guided by the minimum number of possible values given, but by clearly higher [values]. But we also want to strengthen producers directly through this budget strategy. Therefore, in this development strategy plan, we have brought the possibility of coupled support to the maximum allowed. Through tied subsidies, we also want to find ways to strengthen businesses. But I agree with you in this sense that there is nothing easy in these negotiations. Next week or at the beginning of the week after next week, the Agriculture Commissioner should come to Estonia, meetings with him are planned and there we will pick up the topic again. In the framework of the rural fair, there will be a meeting of three Baltic ministers in Tartu, where we will shape our positions. Maybe we don't understand a little bit about some accents we know. If we look at purely food production, as I said before, it would be important that agricultural land does not decrease, but rather we notice the pressure that more land could be afforested, including agricultural land, for example, there is this pressure. But we certainly would not want to agree to this at this stage. We have made some proposals in the light of the crisis. One was not taken into account; the other was more widely taken into account, for example, that the obligation to take grassland back could be temporarily suspended in that sense, so that sowing could be done literally, given what food security is in the wider sense. Another thing is, for example, the possibility of making different sowings in eco-regions, where opportunities have been expanded. It's not easy, we're trying our best. However, the fact is that the same crisis package that we discussed here, mentioned by the previous speaker, could still be created because we quite pressured, both Estonia and other countries. Indeed, at that point it started with pig farming, where both feed prices and sales prices ran in a cross direction. This means that all inputs went to maximum cost and sales prices to a maximum cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U82	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In my opinion, the biggest drawback of this type of debate is that we do not have meters. Only one minister, Minister of State Administration, brought the metrics here. It is, in itself, very good if we can make an assessment or follow up on the next few years to which we are going. My question isn't about that, it's about the green transition. It is quite rightly written here that if the grassroots is not carried out globally, the competitiveness of our companies may be reduced, and the setting of high climate ambitions should not jeopardise the production of healthy food on the ground or the quality of life of our rural and coastal communities. Golden words. But what should you do to make it happen? It just doesn't work out right now. How can we make this global transition an equal treatment of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U84	Thank you, Honourable Asker! That's a good question. Although, when we are talking about "Põka 2030," there should be all the metrics that we want to achieve. This means that interim reports must be made to see if we are moving in the right direction. But in addition, the metrics that have been dealt with there can also be sent to the members of the Riigikogu. There are several aspects to your question. One thing is clear: the European common agricultural policy is part of a very important and strong European food security. This means that the European Union's actions have also increased its export capacity, which is very important. The other side is whether and where there are limits and what is the climate mark that will occur in this production. If we think that our competitiveness will not be undermined in relation to new climate objectives, in many cases we are actually thinking about whether and how third countries and potential imports from third countries could undermine the competitiveness of European companies. The Commissioner has promised that measures will be taken, be it a certain quota system, to add so-called 'hidden footprint' pricing or whatever. They are all extremely important in this sense. We're thinking about what we've been saying all along, so we don't have to rush headstrong. I, too, have raised this issue several times in the Council, and we are going to raise it again with the Commissioner. I would say that this period, which we are currently dealing with in the strategy plan, will run until 2027. We had a transition period of two years and now this so-called complete new period, which is also with new principles and principles. That's the transition period in my definition. This actually means that in 2027+, this strategy plan should also give the European Commission more opportunities, in terms of budget, to generate these transitional investments in order to cope with them. In any case, the less we can support businesses in this transition, the greater the risk that there might be a problem. The other half is still there, and it is that some businesses have already, regardless of what the European Commission is doing, set themselves certain objectives that relate to exactly the same climate objectives and to reducing their potential footprint. Our concern is that if we look at the different options from the agricultural perspective also in the Estonian context, it turns out that many of the methodologies that we currently have are not very good with comparison data. This means that what farmers are doing or are going to do tomorrow should be transformable in order to report across Europe how much we have reduced the footprint of one or the other. But the fact is, we can't go on at the same speed without changing anything in the environment. It is clear that I am 99.9% convinced that consumers will determine this direction for the future. Part of consumption means that both animal welfare and the environment are important, but it must be balanced and sustainable. In food systems, it is important that all those involved in this system should go one foot in this process, namely agriculture, trade, industry. When one link starts to "writing," it is usually punished by agriculture, or primary producer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U85	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U86	Thank you. Dear Minister, Land is the main and, in fact, indispensable means of production in agricultural production, especially fertile agricultural land, which is not very much available in Estonia. We also know that the earth is an unrecoverable natural resource. Once it has been taken under buildings, facilities or roads, it has been confused with agrochemistry and everything else, it will not recover within hundreds of years, it will not be able to recover. In today's situation, forest land is very well protected and agricultural land is virtually unprotected compared to forest land. We take this for granted under planning, we extend them, although forest land is often less fertile than agricultural land. What is behind the fact that the government coalition has still not actively supported the law on the protection of fertile agricultural land?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U87	Thank you. In fact, today's government coalition is part of the process of dealing with this draft. The main question, or one of the questions, is that it relates not only to the coalition, but also to the evaluation of the Chancellor of Justice and local authorities, by referring to the first version of the opinion, that it is too serious to affect the decision-making power of local authorities and that it intervenes too forcefully. What's the softer option? That's what I described earlier. We have very positive examples of cooperation with over 50 municipalities, including in Tartu, where agricultural land was protected during the planning process. True, it has to be said that the same farmer, the owner, has the right at one point to deal with finding, I do not know, a more profitable activity for one hectare. A compromise must now be found where it is reasonable and to what extent it is reasonable and where it is not. If I remember correctly, in the last eight to ten years, some 8 000 hectares of agricultural land have been covered by housing and about half of it has been covered by roads, which, as a percentage of a priori, may not seem very large, but as a whole, I agree with you, I have also expressed this several times in need of the protection of agricultural land. Whether he gets the same kind of protection as the forest, it is difficult to say at the moment, it really depends on the same hall, the end of the procedure for this draft, which is currently under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U88	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U90	Heir, let's let the others do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U91	Thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation. I believe that Estonian food will be much more valuable today's second Easter, and it will be appreciated. But I'm asking you that you said last April the government approved the development of a rural development methodology. What is the result, or what is it, of the original document for ministries, and how will it affect rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U92	Thank you, Honourable Asker, for this question. As I mentioned in the section on this part of the speech, when we make certain decisions at government level, at parliamentary level, it is crucial that we look at all aspects. We know that, in the wind of global globalisation, there is also considerable pressure on urbanisation and the decline of the rural population, despite the fact that the number of children in rural areas has increased, which is once again positive. We should develop principles, principles and, above all, a methodology to take account of these circumstances so that it can be incorporated and taken into account as much as possible when dealing with laws. Perhaps we could build knowledge through these skills and perhaps also mitigate the effects of taking one decision or another. But the overall goal is that the more dispersed the population is in the territory of the country, the better. There are certainly plenty of negative aspects of maximum urbanisation, despite the fact that in terms of cost-effectiveness it may be as positive, but newer knowledge of it has partly started to disprove these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U93	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U94	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about the climate change and giving certainty to farmers. If we are looking at climate goals, then indeed, there is a great deal to change in Estonia, for example in transport and so on. But how can farmers be assured that, if we want to guarantee food security, there will be no significant reduction in emissions in agriculture, that this effort will come from other sectors, that no one will lose their animals or that the field will not have to be placed under solar panels, and that it will actually be possible to continue production to date? As regards fertilisation or anything else, biogas production or waste-related practice issues, these must be resolved, but in large part their activities are not expected to be brought together to meet their climate objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U95	Thank you, Honourable Asker, for this question. In fact, there are a number of questions and several aspects to this question. If we simply look at the economic aspect, it may mean that some businesses are restructured. They have done so in previous periods and will probably continue to do so in the future, regardless of whether this is a climate objective or not. This depends on many other factors. We also recall the dairy crisis in 2015 and the later African swine fever. Even then, some operators said that they have not invested in the dairy sector and that they are leaving this sector, going to other areas. It can still happen. The other thing is that productivity on certain issues has increased all the time. When we talk about food security, we talk in some ways like two levels that would encourage agriculture. First of all, knowing that food is missing in the world. It's global knowledge that there's a shortage of food. True, in terms of the level of self-sufficiency, we have a lot of food left over. When we talk about growing cereals, we can produce more than twice as much as we consume, the dairy sector is the same, in the case of beef, we are at the threshold of one hundred percent, with pork below it. This means that what we know best and do gives us the opportunity to trade for other so - called goods. But as you have noted, the difference between imports and exports is, unfortunately, about 300 million. In the meantime, it was 200 million, but in times of crisis, it has slightly increased. The second question is that I have already referred to the practice of certain countries and to the demands of consumers, whether we should produce intensively at all. The question is not that we produce less a priori, but we have to calculate it. This means, figuratively speaking, that in some countries, I have heard and read about it, it is so that during a certain period, for example, cows a priori produce less milk and, for example, during the winter period, there is no overexpansion of potential inputs or feedingstuffs, or vice versa. This means that more flexibility in monitoring how much is produced and why is produced. But the fact is that it is not very reasonable to move forward at the same pace. We should stop for a moment, not to stop production, but to rethink who our future customers will be, who will be partners, which will be the future markets. We very much hope that the new dairy industry that Paide could start working would literally provide cost-effectiveness, savings, also in terms of their other energies. The country is not going to say that 3% of livestock production must now be reduced. Absolutely not, that's not the issue. It is also true that livestock production has a certain share in climate objectives. But [can't] say we're not doing anything in agriculture. We certainly do, and these opportunities also exist, there are 9 to 12 methods, including precision cultivation, and so on, all of which provide an opportunity, on the one hand, to create environmental sustainability in order to meet the climate objectives, including the biogas you mentioned. Indeed, if we produce all kinds of scraps we can turn, like the positive side in terms of the climate and the economy, then this is a very big step.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U96	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U97	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You spoke of very cosmic issues and climate. I am a little more corny and I think that your presentation is entitled 'The challenges of Estonian food and rural policy in a changing economic and security environment'. Last January, you asked the Riigikogu whether it would be better to live in the Republic of Estonia than to be part of Russia. You left a big footprint on the Russian media wars back then. I ask how you view the comparison between Estonian and Russian agriculture today and how sanctions should affect Russia. Do we have any effective means of influencing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U98	I guess I shouldn't answer that question because you quoted it wrong. The question was about life, where it is better to live. If you've been afraid to answer that, after the Kremlin's massive aggression against Ukraine [from the beginning], you might have the courage to answer. But the headline in the media was given by a member of the government, not by Urmas Kruus, a member of the parliament at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U99	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U100	Thank you. You have stated that if we do not have the greens globally, the competitiveness of our companies may be reduced. That's it. Indeed, there is no grassroots worldwide, and this is painful for our food producers and, of course, for consumers. Consumer awareness has no role to play here when prices make food inaccessible to ordinary people. Also, the possible customs to foreign producers, which you mentioned earlier, will not make food cheaper. Today, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment made such an interesting thought ball that 150,000 hectares of arable land should be afforested. If we take into account the price increase caused by the green turn and that if this [think] goes through and the farmland goes down, how will you, or will your government, ensure that, as a result of the green turn, food will remain available to our people and will not become a luxury commodity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U101	Thank you. I'll start at the back. Personally, I am of the opinion that a forest-rich country of Estonia should not a priori extend the forest area on account of agriculture and land for food production. This is not a matter of one minister's one minute [long answer], but it needs a wider discussion. Personally, I think that good agricultural land should be used for food production. Now this second part, which you mentioned, is that the consumer is only affected by the price. I do not agree with you because consumer groups are different. The wealth of countries and the purchasing power of groups of the population are also different, which means that it is important for some people to have cheap food and these countries have different solutions up to additional social compensation. However, if the Ukrainian and Russian grain stocks do not reach certain markets and it is difficult or, in principle, impossible for Ukraine to export also grain stocks, because it has been a pretty important supplier to certain North African countries, global trends may emerge there. In this situation, where we produce a very large number of agricultural products more than we consume ourselves, we should not and should not talk about not having enough food. But it is also true that pretty cheap food has created a situation where farms have not been able to raise prices on their own within reasonable limits and are forced to make more use of European Union aid. In my opinion, this is not a very good solution. This means that the consumer also has a certain responsibility here and the possibility of literally voting with his purchases in order to make our businesses stronger. As a result, it is extremely important to be able to see where the food is produced, from whose farm or from which establishment it comes from. This could create a situation where we would consume more food produced and grown in Estonia, which is also crucial for environmental objectives. That we cannot manage the influx of cheap food from third countries, I certainly do not agree with that. Is that easy to do? I agree that this is probably not the easiest task, but in this sense it is necessary. In other countries, consumers have already started to pay much attention to these same issues. The examples I gave earlier related to the way the consumer actually looks at the welfare of animals and the environmental footprint. But it has to be taken into account that, since we have such a high export capacity in food production, we are part of a global one, and I call it a conditional one. This means that if we fail to take into account certain conditions, the sale of surplus raw materials or products may also be affected, because we do not meet these conditions. Businesses perceive this in absolute contrast. Some are already working on this and were working on it before a similar green turn at the level of European agricultural policy began to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U102	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! The very rapid increase in food prices increases the cost of providing high-quality free school food for young people. Can you confirm from this speech chair of the Riigikogu today that free school food will remain in the future, despite rapid price increases, and the government will find the necessary additional money so that our young people will continue to receive high-quality school food without any money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U104	Thank you. If I am not mistaken now, we have school lunch grant, not free school food, and this means that local authorities have handled this subject very differently. It has never been discussed in today's government that we should stop paying the school lunch allowance, which means, in my opinion, that it will continue and that the government will not put this issue on the agenda. At least that is my opinion in the light of these discussions. What we have done, and what I mentioned in my speech, is that we would like to support the local authorities and schoolkeepers - kindergarteners who are ready to take organic food on their menu, i.e. get organic labelling, from 20%. We have a number of aspects here. One aspect is that children are getting more and more high-quality food, but on the other hand they can also get an idea of environmental preservation, get this knowledge and maybe set up their own school in the same way that some schools in different areas of Estonia have done either school gardens or bedrocks so that they can use more food close to home. Of course, we also want it to be more in the future. Perhaps the point of the footprint is also that it is not worth transporting this food, which we can produce and consume on the spot, from hundreds of thousands or thousands of kilometres away.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U105	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a very simple and specific question, a very laconical question, I would say to which I dare hope the same concrete and clear answer. In fact, why have food industries and Estonian agriculture as a whole not yet been included in the list of vital service providers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U107	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The honest answer is I'm having a hard time answering it right now. All I know is that over a year ago, we started working on it. It has to be acknowledged that in certain discussions food security was viewed as something that is unnecessary and is not necessary. However, as I said in my speech, we are now also working at the legislative level to make a change, and that if this [draft] is ready to be presented to Parliament, it will be adopted here in Parliament. We have already changed a few important nuances, which also concern the availability of food supplies. Until now, we had a reserve of three days when we talk about the country as a whole, and in the near future it will be guaranteed for seven days. We are also discussing 14 days today, but if we add [the] seven-day supply at family level or household stock under the leadership of the Home Daughters, then there could be a whole, knowledge and skills to prepare for different crises. So we are making an effort to do this, and I very much hope that if this legislative amendment is taken up in this very Parliament, it will create an important discussion. But here is the same subject that, if certain things are guaranteed to private consumers, the food industry did not. For example, we are talking about energy supply with gas, which is a very topical issue, but we are also prepared to review the measures of the rural development plan in order to give companies the opportunity to make additional investments in energy security. This could mean and should mean that if they currently have one choice or type of energy they use in business, then at least another could be added as an alternative in order to be able to choose. However, in the case of gas, the government has taken fundamental decisions regarding the construction of the LNG floating terminal in order to get rid of Russian gas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U108	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a question about spring and autumn farm work this year. Most agricultural machines are known to work on diesel, and they also need AdBlue fluid to work. We already have an AdBlue deficit in the country today. Is that a problem for farmers? If that's a problem, does the government have a plan to solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U110	Thank you, Reverend Asker! What you have mentioned in your question is, in my opinion, a very vivid reflection of a few important things. If we look at companies as a whole, we could say at macro level that we do not have a problem until autumn. But when we go to the level of companies, we know that the companies' stocks of fuel, fertilizer, seed, whatever the difference is. Some have an annual reserve, some have a two or three-week reserve. In the case of diesel, we are also going to follow this, and I can add to it from the good questioner before, that fuel stocks also take into account the fact that it is possible to provide additional fuel to the agricultural sector if necessary, should there be a crisis. In general, it is the case that the honourable Parliament has enacted a draft law concerning the special diesel processing register. In this statistics it was pointed out that in about 90% of the cases, the operators themselves own a so-called warehouse or stock in their own premises or in cooperation with someone and that about 10% of the purchases are made by mail. So I would say that we need to approach it in a very diverse way, on the one hand, certain national reserves that we are increasing and amplifying, and on the other hand, on the operators themselves [stocks]. Because, let us be honest, in this light, certain risk management must certainly be reviewed. Everyone knows that one of the great rules of logistics until now has been to keep enough supplies, because everything is within your arm and leg, you call and you get delivered. It's changed for today. So there will certainly be changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U111	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I listened to your report, and I was wondering if the Ministry of Rural Affairs really supported the fact that the fields were covered by solar panels. I've realized that this is the crap that's been going on for the last two years, that large solar parks have been put in somewhere in Kapa-Kohila, but there are no consumers. They are expected to join, I think, for years to come, because there is no such network. Solar panels should still be at production and, as far as possible, on roofs of production buildings in order not to waste agricultural land. Did I get something wrong, or did you say that the price of land has risen so much that you should put farmland under solar panels?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U113	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. Thank you for that question. You have understood me correctly in this sense that I see the danger that solar panels or various energy carriers will not only compete for agricultural land but also for the forest, which may at some point mean storage devices for energy. I agree with you on this, and I have also said this on previous occasions, that as a priority, it should be possible to join the electricity grid for those solar panels centres or [sun power] producers who want to have it for their own use. That would be number one. If I am not mistaken, there was an additional need to create more capacity to join the infrastructure in the amount of 53 to 54 million. But I'm staying with me. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in Taavi Aa is also reviewing this process and working on bringing about this change. But what I wanted to say is that we cannot prohibit a farm from placing solar panels for its own use, if necessary, in order to increase its energy security. But if we do, it should certainly not be done on valuable agricultural land. If you look at the whole aspect, you can also consider whether it is a long-term or a short-term investment. I have pointed out this danger, it must be taken into account when possible. But, as I said, cooperation with local governments has been better than expected, and if the larger composition of this hall comes in the procedure of the law, then something can change at the legislative level as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U114	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Because times are hard, that's what we all know, and we can see it all. What has happened in the world? In these difficult times, countries no longer rely on a free market economy, but also on a great deal of protection for their own markets and for their own businesses. I think we have to do it, too. We know that the so-called support things in Europe's older countries have now improved, but still there is a difference. There is one way to support our farmers. This is the own contribution rate. The European Union has set certain minimum levels, somewhere it has 15 pross, somewhere it has 40%, but the country can add to it and reduce the farmer's obligation. Is and where are we going to put more state support in order to make our own contribution smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U116	Thank you. If the State adds additional resources, a priori does not necessarily mean that the company is putting less or more. This depends on the nature of the measure and the proportion of its own contribution. Yes, as a principle, you might think that the more the state adds, the less this own contribution rate could be, but they are not in fact a priori dependent on each other, precisely because the objectives of the measure are different and, in some cases, it is also clear that more money is being sought than the money as a whole. But that doesn't always mean that all good projects are going to get [money], so many good projects are going to be lost. It's versatile. Personally, I think that if we've had so far, in the old period, let's say, like, this average state contribution has been at 18%, then now it's going to rise by over 30%, it's going to get twice as big. This must be taken into account by the State. On average, the amount depends on what the proportion of the different measures in the first and second pillars will ultimately be as a result of the negotiations. Then we can start to talk more about how much more should be added to one measure or another. I think that, at any stage, the state should certainly [insert] more in order to create more opportunities for investment support, for example. This is certainly a place to add, because certain investments are costly for the company and not all investments are a priori immediately cost-effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U117	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Merry Aart, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to talk about the CAP strategy plan, it is a document that must be ready by the end of this year. This is the only way we can start implementing it in 2023 and we can start opening up measures for a new period. These measures are very much needed by producers. It would be unfair not to recognise the preparers of the strategy plan, the negotiators with the European Commission, the target groups who are involved and who have expressed their views. It is a question of how much they have been taken into account. It is true that there will never be a situation in which all target groups would be satisfied with their role. I don't remember a situation like that. However, in the negotiations on this document, I see a desire to defend Estonia's views. We'll see how this works, but it's grateful. We don't have much to be happy about. The support for Estonian farmers is still the lowest in Europe, with the support of Latvia, the redistribution to the smaller ones, the slightly winning organic [producers], the slightly winning beef farmers, especially those with a connection to semi-natural communities. The losers are large dairy farmers and cereal producers. Of course, they themselves depend on how they can use other measures. Farmers have very difficult times. The price of inputs has risen three to four times, the sales price of production has increased up to two times. Quite a few farmers, especially in pig farming, are already going [production] or are seriously considering quitting. It is not possible to pay for production until infinity. For quite a number of years now, farmers can only cope with subsidies. The more difficult the economic situation is, the clearer it is that the country needs small, medium and larger farmers. We have to be able to anticipate risks. Those livestock farmers who produce their own feed survive this crisis, those who do not produce themselves, are in a very difficult situation. A country must come to the aid of this country if we want to have livestock farming after the crisis, at least the main herd, if not more. I have pointed this out before, but I would like to come once again to the fact that the protection of nature and the wisdom of the peasant are very closely linked. The best keeper of nature is the farmer and the owner of the forest. He has the responsibility to give good ground to future generations for food production. We need to trust the owner if we want our food security to be guaranteed. There's been a lot of talk about cormorants. I used to go to Võrtsjärv with children to admire nature and picnics in Tondisaare. Now the Ghost Island cormorans are so polluted that even the locals are passing this island in a distant arch. Even Matsalu cormorants enjoy fish in Võrtsjärv. What else are they doing by the sea? Can anyone in this hall imagine the cost of goose damage in the fields? Several farmers are forced to plow up grain fields again and sow summer crops in an already sown field. Whole families go and clap, for three weeks, basically greet geese in their fields 24 hours a day. It's not worth talking about compensation, it's a fraction of the actual costs. It's a very small part, better than the weather, but a very small part. From the spring of last year, the Environmental Board has had to develop a methodology that would deter birds and preserve crops. Unfortunately, the unarranged number of years at which this methodology must be prepared was forgotten. As far as I know, it's still being prepared. It is possible that by 2025 this methodology will be completed. I very much hope that this will also take into account the needs of producers. This too is important for food production. If we want to have enough food to ensure food security in good times and in times of crisis, we all need to cooperate, including ministries and officials, with a view to the outcome. I also want to say that we may have a lot of smart documents. If we do not see the relationship between different actions and decisions, how to achieve a result, then we will not get to that. We may have a green crossing road map, but if we put the same solar panels in the middle of the best field, for example, especially if they are not yet connected to the network, will it contribute to food security? Or if we put these solar panels on a roof or somewhere where there is no fertile soil? The current war situation in Europe is forcing us to think very seriously about what we are doing, what we are doing for, and how we are doing. I cannot help but say that we need a wise and meaningful agricultural advisory service. It is the advisory service that helps to steer all activities in the right direction, supports farmers, explains the needs of lawmakers and also of agricultural scientists. Collaboration, interaction is needed, but this is another issue and it needs a separate report. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U119	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Viidik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U120	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Minister Urmas Kruus for a very constructive and meaningful presentation. I mean, you could go over all those thoughts, but you're not going to do it now because you can agree to anything. But I would like to talk about food security, perhaps in such a more everyday and understandable key. One example of this morning. I had a conversation with a small company in Hiiumaa, my neighborhood, who is involved in crop production and now also in flour production. Their joy and concern at the same time was that they were good organic farmers, but most of this [fruit] still goes to cars and exports. Plus, it was like he said, at least some part of them can make flour and take their people to dinner. In my opinion, this is one of the key issues in the whole context of food security. The Minister also stressed this on several occasions. But if you take it well, what's food security? In my opinion, this is, on the one hand, the existence of a supply of food, which has also been mentioned here. However, the sustainability of local food production is even more important. If you go on with a little fishing mumble, it is fitting to recall the Estonian people's proverb that love still goes through the stomach today, on Easter. Of course, when you're full, your feelings are more positive. If Estonia is feeding its food, it is very, very pleasant. For this reason, the programme supported by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the European Union programmes on the farm plate, which once again develops a model of short supply chains that brings the producer and consumer closer together, is certainly very positive. One important aspect that went through this was the security of food supply or security of supply. As the Minister mentioned, we have product groups where the level of self-sufficiency is very good and above, but also product groups where it is low. There is certainly reason to think about how to balance these shortcomings. I am particularly happy, as a Western Estonian population, that aquaculture has become an active activity, which will hopefully bring much more local fish to our food table. We were also talking about the energy economy and agricultural production. I am not focusing on biogas production at the moment, but as far as solar panels and valuable agricultural land are concerned, I hope that we will soon be able to resolve this issue in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. However, it should be understood that this is also a matter of security if the food producer is able to supply itself with energy. So the installation of solar panels cannot in any way be condemned in this context. I'd like to ask for a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U121	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U122	There has also been talk about the circular economy in this context. Let us not bring into this context the expression 'waste of food', but inevitably food surpluses are also a matter that needs to be addressed very deeply, so that we, on the one hand, reduce the waste of food, but, on the other hand, give spoiled food a new life of composting and then recycling. This, in my opinion, is certainly an important aspect of the green economy in the agricultural sector, the rural sector. Of course, as far as security is concerned, one aspect, which I believe is very, very important, is that production in rural areas has been a community-based activity of all time and, as a community-based activity, it will quite literally increase the security of the community. Hopefully, it will also create solidarity, better interaction between the [members] of the community, but the security of the community through joint action is, in my opinion, completely linked to agricultural production. So, in fact, there is nothing to say in the end but the strength of the Minister for Rural Affairs to implement this plan. I very much hope that our farmers will also be able to solve the bottlenecks linked to the difficulties of supplying the East, and Estonian agricultural production will continue on as good and effective a course as it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U123	Thank you. I now ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U124	Good manager! Dear Minister, Good chairman of the committee! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I was expecting something more today. Knowing the Minister of Rural Affairs, I know he always takes his actions very seriously. When we were together in the Committee on Rural Affairs, we always managed to find consensus. But when you read this paper, I've been saddening for the last six months that we are discussing, we are thinking, we are trying to decide, but there is no decision, perhaps the inability to make decisions. Let's start with energy security. This remote control says that farmland is in a situation where solar parks can be built there. If you want to build something else in the productive land, you need a detailed plan for it first. Perhaps today there should have been a decision here that farmland that is fertile, solar panels are not being built, they are being built on production buildings, cities, where there are consumers. We have the roofs of production buildings, we have houses, we have everything else, we shouldn't waste farmland that doesn't grow, it's the size it is. Here's what I'm gonna look at: school food, organic food and everything. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs today we discussed the draft Social Democrats, the proposal to raise school food money for the government. We know that organic food is much more expensive on the retail market than any other conventional food, because the production of fertilisers simply increases. Who didn't support this bill? Only the Reform Party. The rest of the parties supported. But here's a suggestion. Next is that we could discuss the fall in excise duty on special-marked fuel. The Fatherland has made such proposals soon for the last year and a half. Last week, we discussed excise duty cuts in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Not all political parties except the Reform Party supported excise duty cuts; the Reform Party did not support them. I am pleased that the Minister is of the opinion that excise duties could be reduced, but it is certainly necessary to work hard in his home party so that at least members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the home party would also support the Minister for Rural Affairs, because otherwise there may be a situation that you want to do better, but it will turn out as usual. We are talking about green energy and renewable energy. It does say here that more than 20 million are expected from the European Union to produce biogas and everything and to deal with it. Very simple. It should then be decided by the government that if there is a slurry store at the table, the roof will be placed on it and biogas will be produced. A simple decision doesn't take too much to spin. There are examples of this in Estonia and there are examples of this. Of course, it's an investment. A few years ago, it was very difficult for it to pay off. The investments were made, but it was not easy for them to pay off financially. At today's gas price, which has risen five-six-seven times, it makes sense. Especially if the coalition considers this important for energy security. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U125	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U126	But unfortunately, there are no specific decisions. We are talking about the food industry and the [food] supply. The previous speaker spoke about the example of a farmer in Hiiumaa. I think this is one of the places that I should have talked about and discussed today. That we ourselves produce, first on the field, and then we value what we produce in that field, and that is what we do to our people. As we read a week ago, cows with the best milk can grow here in Estonia. Our milk production is the second largest in Europe. We produce more than we consume. Of course, exports are very important, because only exports make money for the state. The remaining consumption is domestic. How do we keep dairy herds from shrinking? Pork growing. It is a matter of security that we ourselves have meat. Today, of course, the situation is much better than it was six months ago, because six months ago the price of meat was so low that smaller and smaller pig farmers closed the doors. Today, fortunately, the price has reached this level, just like the price of milk, that survives and remains a little over. I hope that the next ministers who come here with a report on developments by 2035 will have very concrete proposals that have been discussed and decided on by the government. The debate on these decisions should be here in the Riigikogu and there is also this political decision. Once a political decision has been taken, the next step is how to support, with state resources, that these decisions are also implemented, but not that we plan, we want, we come. More determination! Then it will also be possible to bring Estonian agriculture and food production to a higher level, which is very good today, but we must keep our farmers and hope that our people will also live in rural areas. A third of our people still live in rural areas. How to support the survival of schools and kindergartens, so that all the services that every citizen is used to receiving in the city can also be obtained in the country, this is one place that should be discussed more and more today, because all the people of Estonia deserve to be treated well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U127	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Ivari Padari. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U128	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After all, all the targets that are in this document are correct and good. The Minister also made a nice presentation. The target is 2035. We have talked a lot about this new strategy plan, which actually only covers half of that time, i.e. until 2027. But if you go to a smaller part of the time now, then it is that we are going to have extremely revolutionary times this year, and next year, when agriculture is being tested, because of all the things you know. Clearly, the price increase in agricultural inputs, if we are talking about fertilisers and fuels, is still in hundreds of millions of Estonian agriculture. This is still an extremely harsh situation. Speaking of fertilisers, 90% of the fertilisers had already been stocked and bought last year, i.e. this spring will live as nicely as possible. But it is clear that we still have the autumn and next year's hole, where the possibilities of crediting, that is to say, everything that can also be carried out by the Rural Promotion Foundation, must be put in place. He must be given more resources as far as possible. Yes, food security has indeed become a strong word in this context, and not much has been said about it in the past. I just remembered, in critical times, that's what I'm talking about. When the twin towers were attacked and I was Minister of Agriculture in Lar's other government, the entire cabinet suddenly woke up: do we have any food? At the time, we thought there was food. There was a grain warehouse in Rakvere, after which this warehouse was stolen [empty], [fruit] went in liquid form into the Estonian people. What's food security? There is a great deal of scope and scope to expand this term, but the most important thing is that a functioning agricultural sector and a functioning farmer is food security. We can say that Estonia is not at risk of hunger, but these reorganisations or setting things right in the new situation are quite difficult. We'll get that fertilizer in the future, I'm sure we'll get it cheaper than today's top prices, but it's gonna take a slap. We know and it is also clear that, in this situation, yes, food prices have certainly already increased, but they are expected to remain at some such heights. We have one thing to do, it's the fertilizer side, to think it through, we have to think the same way about the bait side, because even with our top herds, it was important for the player from Ukraine to enter the bait, even in May. It is clear that, in the new situation, we will also reach land use, agricultural land use and greening. Clearly, I see that there is a need to intensify land use for agriculture at least for a period of time, so that we can cope with our livestock. There are so many variables here that you have to go along with. An important part of how to contribute here is, of course, state policy and state aid, which are largely the common agricultural policy of the European Union, co-financing by Estonia and, of course, the next additional budget that I have ahead of me. I know that there are plans to put at least twenty million agricultural subsidies in there, and we hope that they will come too. There's been some talk about school food here. What do I say to that? At first, it seemed like the kids were just giving hot food at school, and maybe that's where it's going to stay. It's a sign. It's a more varied thing, it's still whether we've been practicing our children's appreciation for decent and domestic food since we were kids. When we were here discussing the difficult situation of pig farming three months ago, we came to the conclusion that in Scandinavia, it is different that Scandinavia is highly valued for domestic countries. Not that we're protectionists, but it's just that if the neck carbonade is cheaper by the euro, they're still taking homemade neck chops. The subject of eating habits and domestic [food], which comes with school food, is very important. I ask you to take this matter seriously. We'll get to these issues either way or at some point. Now for energy. Certainly, today's strategy plan needs to be revised seriously so that energy solutions for agriculture can receive investment support. I understand that the recovery plan includes a few dozen million of these topics, but here, even if there is such a decent pilot project, what is happening today around Estonia, with the help of which the city of Tartu receives its biogas. For information: it's about a hundred cows feeding one bus a year. We have a proper pilot[project], but of course, a well-governed company. We need to move forward with this wisdom and see how we can create more of these biogas plants, because it is clear that one small producer is not enough. There is a certain critical volume that is needed. For example, in the case of this critical volume, I will look at the strategy plan, the strategy plan also provides an opportunity, for example, to make energy cooperatives with several producers together. We have to get to the circular economy, the circular economy is a sensible thing, and it is part of the green idea that we want to bring into agriculture. I don't know exactly what peasant wisdom is, because I've seen a lot of peasantism, too, but I believe that peasant wisdom is such a circular economic approach to the economy, to food production, to society. Nothing, intelligent mind, for us in these difficult years to reflect on the promotion of agriculture in such a way as to get it back in place. But critical times are certainly, I think, autumn and next spring and [critical is] that of the appalling rise in the prices of inputs. Good luck to us and live Estonian agriculture!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U129	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U130	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, A very important topic that is being discussed here in the Riigikogu Hall today. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the team who put this strategy plan in place and prepared it until 2035. We have discussed this on several occasions in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and a small input has come from that side. For each country, I think it is very strategically important that it has military security, energy security and food security. If these three areas of security are guaranteed, I think that the country is also strong. Let's face it, without food security and without food, a soldier can't make it on the warfield either. So food is very important anyway. I am pleased that we are increasingly talking about and meditating on food security. If we look at inflation, which was 15.2% compared to March last year, then a great deal of this price increase was also due to the rapid rise in food prices. The rapid rise in food prices hits very hard the people in our country, whose income is not very high, and poorer groups of people. Statistics show that many people have developed a situation in which they choose those foods that are overdue or choose which store gets the cheapest food. In my opinion, the country has a huge opportunity to contribute itself to making food more accessible to people and to making our companies more competitive. We should certainly discuss whether we should lower excise duty. In my opinion, excise duties should be reduced, in particular the excise duty on special-marked diesel, in order to create a somewhat more level playing field for farmers with our neighbours. Unfortunately, compared to the rest of the European Union, as we know, we still have the lowest direct payments from the European Union, or among the latter. The state's contribution could be to reduce the excise duty rate on specially labelled diesel as soon as possible and to bring it to a minimum level in the European Union of EUR 21 per 1000 litres. This is not the same amount of money that is very high, EUR 5 to 7 million per year, but it is very important. The farmer understands that at least the country will do its utmost to meet him. There aren't that many possibilities now. Another thing we should definitely do. If the European Commission has put 2.5 million to support our agricultural sector, and the country has promised to add 5.5 million, then in any case the additional national budget should reflect these amounts. These could be the minimum amounts we could talk about. I'm pretty confident that the coalition partner, the Central Party, has support for them in any case. We certainly support both the reduction of the excise duty on special-marked fuel and the fact that the country will find a minimum of 5 million more for the money allocated by the European Commission. What else do I want to talk about? I guess this difficult situation makes you think about how to organise your life in agriculture. Very many areas we can strengthen ourselves in Estonia, such as the situation of the bioeconomy, which my colleague Ivari Padar talked about. We could produce significantly more biogas biomethane in Estonia. If today the bus park of the city of Tartu is moving thanks to biogas... I'll ask for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U131	Please! Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U132	... it could be significantly expanded. This also applies to the heating sector, as agriculture can also be very active in this area in order to heat local boilers with different types of fuel, which in a sense may also include straw, which is already used in some places. I know that a very good [company] is heating its catfish with straw. There are still ways. Of course, we must review the conditions of competition so that our good farmer can survive these harsh conditions of competition. Every effort must be made by the state to make our farmer feel more confident. I can say that, in addition to feeding our people, we also have great potential for exporting food. We know that food shortages are growing in the world. Today, too, food products that could not be sold in the past will be sold at a very special price. At the beginning of the year, we spoke in the Commission, for example, about buying-in prices, concerning milk, pigmeat or cereals. We know that these prices have now increased, at times, even on a number of occasions. If a farmer had received a sale price a year ago, which is now, he would have been very happy. But unfortunately, input prices have all gone away and the farmer is still facing a difficult [problem] to deal with fertiliser, fuel or electricity. But I want smart decisions for all of us. I wish the Minister every success in the negotiations in the government so that these minimum wishes can be reflected in the additional budget. I know the Minister is working hard on this. We have our support. Good luck and thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U133	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. As stated in our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U134	We will move to the third item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Eduard Odinets, Helmen Küti, Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkuti, Indrek Saare and Jaak Juske on 4 April 2022 regarding the effects of underfunding higher education (No 128). Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. I ask Mr Jaak Juske, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U135	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Good college people! Estonian higher education is in a serious crisis. For more than two months we have no administrative contracts between public universities and the Ministry, the Estonian state. The underfunding of Estonian higher education has become a chronic problem and its sour fruits we can now see how many universities have announced that they have started cutting and closing free Estonian-language study places. This is a very serious crisis that concerns the whole future of our higher education, its quality and its availability. In this context, the Social Democrats have put four questions to the Minister. We want to know how such a situation has ever happened. When does the government plan to find extra money so that this embarrassing financial crisis can be brought to an end and universities can conclude administrative contracts? It is not the policy of today's government to cut or lose free Estonian-language higher education, is it? Those are the questions. We ask for answers, Madam Secretary, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U136	I ask the Minister of Education and Science of the Riigikogu to answer this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U137	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, good members of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for your very important questioning! I am quite frankly saying that I am pleased that the issue of funding for higher education is still being held in the forefront, despite the fact that we [all] are starting to retreat from the COVID crisis, there is a war going on in Ukraine and there seem to be so many other acute issues. But the issue of funding higher education is certainly an issue that can really be called a crisis. In your introduction, you pointed out why this situation has developed. This situation has arisen because after the decision to transfer to free higher education, EUR 10 million of additional funding was given to the higher education sector in order to switch, but since then the additional money for higher education has been pointed out and has been available for years if no additional money has been added at all. I see, for example, that 2018 was 2%, then 3.1%, then 2.8%, 2021 was 4.9%, and that was 8 million euros, which was really looking back at one of the biggest money injections into higher education, this year is 3.1%, 5 million. So this is the answer that really, the field of higher education has been systematically underfunded since the transition to free higher education. But now let's take a closer look at your questions. The first question: "Why are there still no new administrative contracts with universities? What is your responsibility here as Minister? " Since the spring of last year, the university rectors have said very clearly that funding for higher education is a problem. An education agreement was also presented, which made it very clear that funding for higher education as a ratio to gross domestic product should be 1.5%. If we wanted to reach this goal, an amount of EUR 110 million would be needed immediately. We haven't gotten that money into the state budget. In the negotiations on the state budget, I applied for an increase of 7.2% in operating support, at the time, on the grounds that we had a request to raise salaries to the same extent, so that the salaries of teachers would rise in the same way as those of teachers. We didn't get any extra money. Within the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, we redirected EUR 5 million into higher education, which is 3.1%. When we made this decision to put EUR 5 million into funding for higher education, I was embarrassed that this amount was so small, but when I look at what has happened in previous years, it seems that this amount was completely solid. But, of course, it doesn't solve the systemic problem. The funding of higher education is a common concern with the Rectors, which is also a concern of the Ministry of Education and Research. And why? I think a very vivid example is that we need more teachers, we need more engineers, we need more doctors, we need more IT specialists, but we see that graduates of all these disciplines get significantly higher pay on the labour market than their teachers get in universities, mostly doctorate lecturers. For example, engineers receive EUR 500 less pay in universities than in the labour market, EUR 1300 less in the IT sector [teachers], EUR 1 500 less in the university for doctors [teachers], even less in the university for teachers, EUR 200 less. If we now come to these administrative agreements, the fact that the state can tell universities that we need these specialists more requires more funding, and that both parties can sign a fair-faced agreement requires more funding for higher education. That is why the Rectors have said that they will apply for a 15% increase in operating aid over the next four years. This seems to be the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the Of course, I also feel personally responsible for the fact that, at least while I am a minister, there will be more money in the field of higher education. I will certainly stand for higher education in the negotiations on the state budget. "Is and when is the government going to find the additional funding that universities want? " We will certainly be discussing this in the government in August when the negotiations on the state budget strategy and the state budget start. As I said, the Rectors have made it a condition, one might even say that they have submitted an ultimatum so that, in order for them to be able to meet the order requested by the State, operating aid should increase by 15% over four years. What does that mean for the taxpayer? For taxpayers, this means that an additional 24.7 million would be needed in 2023, 28.5 million in 2024, 32.7 million in 2025 and 33.6 million in 2026. This is a cumulative cost as the base continues to grow. Despite these quite many additional millions, as a ratio to GDP, we would still remain at 1.1%. If we are now in the order of 1%, a 15% increase in operating aid for four years would keep us at 1.1%. But this is certainly an important issue for the country's budgetary strategy. We have two main sources of additional needs in the Ministry of Education over the years: the increase in teachers' salaries and the financing of higher education. I will certainly raise these two issues. The third question: "Does the government intend to reduce the funding of free Estonian-language study places at Estonian universities? " No, it is certainly not planned to reduce the funding of study places in Estonian at universities. If you refer to Tallinn University in your inquiry and that the University of Tallinn closed several curricula, these curricula were not predominantly the curricula of Tallinn University's areas of responsibility. One of the Master's degree programmes of the Recreation Order was their responsibilities curriculum; the other five were out of the field of responsibility. I generally look at the overview of responsibilities. For example, at the Academy of Arts and at the Academy of Music and Theatre, all curricula, one hundred percent correspond to their areas of responsibility, in Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu, nearly one hundred percent of the curricula are curricula in the areas of responsibility, but the University of Tallinn has 73.1% of the curricula in their area of responsibility. Of course, if the resource is limited and there is a clear limited resource in higher education, then all universities should focus in particular on developing curricula in their area of responsibility. But, of course, reducing the number of curricula does not mean reducing the number of students automatically accepted. For example, 7600 students were admitted to higher education in 2021 and 7005 students graduated from upper secondary school in the same year. Even if some curricula are closed, this does not mean that higher education in itself will become less accessible. Question 4: "How do you see the future of higher education in a situation where the government is unable to secure the funding that universities want? " I have led the government to the topic of funding higher education and to the analysis done by my ladies and gentlemen in the ministry. There, various higher education funding models and their effects, their pros and cons were analysed. When we had a debate on a matter of national importance in this Chamber on funding for higher education, I described all these models at length. But as a quick reminder that we have three models of magnitude, it is possible to choose between them, but it is not something very certain that can be created within these models, too. Firstly, the continuation of free higher education under the same conditions as today. This would require additional funding from the taxpayer of EUR 110 million for higher education so that funding for higher education reaches 1.5% of gross domestic product. The second model is that there is mostly free higher education, where the student has a small-scale ownership. Here it has been proposed to do this for a school year of 300-1000 euros. Depends on the amount of money paid once a year: if this administrative fee is, for example, EUR 1000, then it will bring the area up to EUR 15 to EUR 25 million, if it is, for example, EUR 300, then it will raise EUR 9 million. The third [model] is paid higher education, where the student has a significant impact on ownership of more than EUR 1000 per year. If it were agreed to implement this system that, for example, the average tuition fee would be EUR 3000 per year for all students, this could have an impact of some EUR 60 million per year. However, for both the second and the last models, it is absolutely certain that this will require very fundamental changes in both the student loan system and the school grant system. In particular, in my opinion, the transition to paid higher education requires a very clear mandate for elections to the Riigikogu. It's such a fundamental change that you don't just do it. Personally, I believe that the first Estonian-language higher education should remain free of charge for everyone. The question is that if people who are already working want to come back to university in a flexible way to complete a second, third or fourth higher education, I believe that private money could also be more involved. But for a young person from upper secondary school, the first Estonian-language higher education could, in my opinion, be free of charge. When we discussed the issue of funding for higher education in the government, I had a very clear understanding that all the parties at the table realised that the higher education sector needed extra money. The Ministry of Education and Research was tasked with drafting amendments to the Higher Education Act, which have also passed through the Research and Development Council. How can I put it? The aim of these changes is, in particular, to increase academic discipline in order, for example, to reduce the interruption of [studies]. We now have that a student who goes to free study and studies in one specialty begins to think that this specialty still doesn't suit him, he interrupts his studies in this specialty, enters the next specialty, studies there again for six months, starts to think that it still doesn't fit, and then enters the next one. This is the way you can change a profession without limit right now. For example, you could limit the number of times you can change a profession until you start paying for the education you want to complete at one point. Or, for example, how many times the state is willing to pay for higher education at the same level. Currently, higher education at the same level can be obtained repeatedly free of charge. There's a minimum time that needs to be skipped, but can we extend that time? These discussions are ongoing and we will see if we can get to the draft. Thanks for the questions. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U138	There's plenty of them. Please! Commence Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U139	Thank you very much, Minister. Although university funding has increased slightly over the last year as a sum, the ratio to GDP has fallen from 1.5% to 1.1% at the same time. My question is why the government has allowed this situation to arise and why the government will reduce the share of funding for higher education in GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U140	Thank you for your question. I'll see, though, that I haven't decreased. 2021 was 1% and 2022 is also 1%, before 2020 was 1.1%. The decrease, a marked decrease occurred in 2018 against 2019, but today's government has managed to maintain the level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U141	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U142	Thank you. The Kohtla-Järve City Government allocates to its educational and cultural institutions a payroll fund from the city's budget, which is for 11 months instead of 12 months. When the headmasters start to say that they have problems, or the directors of cultural houses, they're told that you can't manage within the given limits. I have listened to your interviews and read the articles. Sometimes there appear to be clues, just as universities are also co-responsible for the situation that has arisen, just as they too might be a little better able to manage within the limits of their allocated budget. Is it possible to read here that you blame the rectors of universities so that they can better manage within a given budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U143	Thank you. I was just wondering what article or interview you might be referring to, which might have made such an impression. In what I have also emphasised in replying to you now, I am sure, and that is what I have said to the rectors, including Tõnu Viig, that the universities would keep the focus on their areas of responsibility. The state is also demanding in this respect that universities keep their focus on their areas of responsibility, because these areas of responsibility were agreed in their own time because there would be as little duplication as possible in a small country, because each university would increase its own strengths in precisely those areas that have been agreed and for which it is responsible. In general, as I said, this picture is very good. In most public universities, curricula are largely responsibilities-based. Tallinn University stands out with a difference. The University of Tallinn is now doing what it does to focus on those areas where it has an agreed area of responsibility in terms of limited resources. That's right. Perhaps you refer to the former Gunnar Ok report, which really made proposals for a more fundamental reform in the field of higher education and also for various university mergers. As far as I know, it has been analysed and found that these mergers will not bring any financial savings. That is why I, too, have not been the front speaker on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U144	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have not agreed here with our colleague, it is spontaneous, but I will also continue with the thinking of Rector Tõnu Viig of Tallinn University. On 16 February, he claimed that the views of universities and government are not very different, for example, from those of the specialists that Estonia needs or how many international students are needed. He continued that the current funding cannot do all of this of the same quality. Thus, at least according to Tõnu Viig, the government has a view of how many foreign students should be present. I am asking, first of all, how many of these should be either in absolute numbers or what should be the proportion. Secondly, especially in the light of this inquiry, I ask how much money is needed for foreign students studying in English according to the government's view.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U146	Thank you. Certainly the state does not say how much money is needed to teach foreign students, it is purely a question of university autonomy. But indeed, in earlier times, one of the metrics of university funding has been the internationalisation of universities and also the number of foreign students at the university. That is what we want to abandon when concluding new administrative contracts, because these quantitative objectives have been achieved, we do not need to encourage it in any way anymore. In the case of internationalisation, we want to abandon quantitative targets. The goal is that we look first and foremost not at quantity, but at quality, which students reach Estonia, so that they are really very strong students who would give our academic family [something] more so that they would not be able to earn money. Yes, from quantity we want to move towards quality. Today, these agreements, as you know, are behind the same problem of funding higher education. But that was one of our goals, actually common to the Rectors, which we would like to agree on in the administrative agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U147	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, when you answered Mrs Pikhof, you did not mention clearly that very rapid inflation eats the little money that has been given to universities, so in fact, funding has basically decreased. However, it is still scandalous that we are still in a situation where there are no administrative contracts. We are in a situation where the Estonian state does not actually order any study places from universities. But I ask you that you listed a number of possible funding schemes and, as your minister, you make political choices. What funding scheme do you support?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U149	Thank you. In fact, we have stopped ordering study places when financing higher education. These are exceptional cases when the state says that we really need additional places to teach teachers, for example, and has also paid extra money for this. For example, for the academic year that begins in the autumn, we ordered more teaching places from Tallinn University and the University of Tartu for more than a million euros. As I said, my preference is for the first higher education to be free of charge for a young person, the first higher education in Estonian. From there, if working people also learn part-time, for example, I think there might be more private money to be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U150	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U151	Thank you. Madam Minister! My question, too, is motivated by what you have already answered a little bit. This is a duplication of universities, but not a duplication of study places and specialties alone. I remember the subject of labs that have been very lushly dealt with at some point in time with European Union funds. From time to time, I've also looked at this thing so that I could, for example, have done one lab at three universities, being a dilemma, of course. Tell us what opportunities are actually available between universities to make better use of this internal resource. What look do you see at this new EU wallet, how much can it contribute to the progress of universities? How can duplication be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U152	Thank you. We have just had a debate in the Research Policy Committee on research infrastructure issues and also on how open research infrastructure is for researchers. For example, the question was raised about where this is where I, as a scientist, see what kind of research infrastructure I could use and when. For example, we do not need the same laboratories everywhere; they could be cross-used. In the debate, however, it turned out that they are also cross-used, not all the same laboratories. Where could universities make more use of these internal resources? I think that this is, above all, a question for the university rectors, which you could ask them. But if I look at, for example, what we as a country have wanted, it is that teaching those specialties where there is a greater shortage of labour to grow, and in those specialties where we have also seen overproduction as a result of the earlier model of funding higher education, the number of places for study would be reduced, and that is what we have actually seen. The statistics clearly point out that if, for example, administrative managers came into the labour market too much through this partial paid higher education model, we now see that there are significantly fewer teachers in universities who are not in need of the labour market, while the number of study places in the IT sector has increased significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U153	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Education and Science, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for coming so quickly to our question and answer questions on 4 April. This shows that this topic is very important to you. Thank you so much for that. Universities are in fact in a situation where several years have been made at a loss. After all, the aim of reducing learning activity is to ensure the sustainability and quality of university education in a situation where funding for higher education is inadequate and, in fact, the future is uncertain. You also pointed out that this is like the subject of the next elections. But I ask, is there anything in the supplementary budget that is likely to come in the area of education that will make it easier? You've pointed out that teacher training has 1 million, but it's probably already in the state budget, it doesn't come with an extra budget. Is there anything to cover the extra budget a little bit, or is it here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U155	Thank you. Indeed, more than 1 million of us within the [budget] of the Ministry of Education and Research, without asking for any additional money, directed to the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn to increase the number of study places in teacher education. The supplementary budget clearly maintains a focus on supporting Ukrainian refugees and compensating for the effects of the war. There, indeed, we have also applied for additional funding for higher education, which concerns the payment of scholarships to students from Ukraine, EUR 5 000 per academic year. 27 students have reached Estonia, the universities have received further applications, they are being processed. So the number of these students is likely to increase. But yes, 27 have already come up, there were Ukrainian students here before the war. So, in the context of an additional budget, it concerns a scholarship for Ukrainian students.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U156	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U157	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! We know what kind of pay our university faculty gets. After all, the crime is that teachers who teach teachers receive less pay than in the future teachers of general education in very many places. Really, it is. The small amount of money that the state is so to say in this basic funding channelling to universities may not go at all to raise wages, to make wages competitive. What is the Ministry planning to do to ensure that this funding is given to universities and is primarily paid for, not paid for the electricity bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U158	Thank you. Of course, it sounds very good that there is a perverse example that teachers receive less pay than teachers in general education schools, but really, they get 200 euros less pay. In my opinion, however, the incoherent thing is that it is EUR 1300 for IT specialists and, as a rule, they have a master's degree, even though their lecturers have a doctorate or that it is EUR 1500 for specialist doctors. I think it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... But really, it sounds very vivid that teachers get even less paid because we know that teachers' pay is already low in themselves, and that even less is paid in universities than our teachers do. For example, the last time during the state budget discussions, I had an agreement with the Rectors that if we get this 7.2% increase in operating support, that money would go precisely to level the difference between teachers' salaries, and the agreement was that we could look at the stats as to whether or not there was a change. The University of Tartu actually raised the minimum rates for teachers' salaries, but the truth is that they have not received the EUR 5 million that the universities gained because the administrative contracts have not been signed. It is also the only money they have not received, because previous management contracts had agreed that if the agreement could not be agreed, the average amount of previous years would still be transferred to universities, but that additional money had not been received by universities. Really, it's the only way, the agreement with the rectors, that the money will be added. That's where the shoe squeezes the most. That's where the money goes. But we have universities autonomous, and I consider it very important that universities remain autonomous. In general, I believe more in a society of agreements than in regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U159	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, it is an unprecedented case that there are no administrative agreements with universities. I very much appreciate you being an expert in this area and a politician, but I must say that as a minister, you have failed in your field. You said that you appreciated the agreement, but you have not been able to guarantee the financing of Estonian higher education; you have not been able to stand up for all this in the government. It creates a great deal of instability. We can see the consequences of this in higher education. When a good lecturer leaves, who has to work in a demotiivised, by the way, for an unremunerated salary, it has no effect on the Estonian economy or the state's ability. We have a meeting next week with the Rectors where we'll discuss it. Tell me when these administrative contracts will be signed. After all, this is the sign that the government actually wants to contribute to higher education. There is no other question, it is a question of money and decision-making, it is, and there is a question of choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U161	Thank you. You might want to ask the Rectors how they are satisfied with the sitting Minister of Education. Ask and see if their assessment is the same as your assessment of whether it matches. Secondly, the answer to the question is that I very much hope that in the autumn, once the decisions on the state budget have been taken by the government, we will be able to sign the administrative agreements immediately. We have agreed with the Rectors that administrative agreements have been prepared in such a way that once the government has made a decision, we can immediately sign them as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U162	Good minister! No more questions... Still, still. Indrek Saar would like to ask. Next time, a little bit faster. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U163	Excuse me, Mr President. I also apologize to the Minister for keeping me in the mood. But with a question, I'll come back to my wages. I understand that universities are autonomous and so on. But as Minister of Education, you should have some kind of vision of what should be the desired wage level, for which you are working and for which you are applying for money in the field. What is your plan that you want to realise in the case of university faculty salaries next year and the following year? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U164	Thank you. My plan is for higher education funding to increase by at least 15% next year and the next year. If this were to happen, next year it would bring more than EUR 25 million to the area, and more and more from there. I understand that it would be very socialist if the Minister were to determine the salaries of university teachers, but I am certainly not in favour of this. I expect university rectors to do very well by giving them opportunities and resources to decide what the pay of a particular lecturer is. So I am working to ensure that funding for higher education reaches such a level that the rectors can assign to the faculty a salary that they consider fair and right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U165	Now we've run out of questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U166	Thank you very much. The more questions, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U167	Let's open the negotiations. First of all, representatives of the heirs. If I may, Mr White, ask you to wait a minute, I would like to give the Social Democrats a chance first. They've been asking questions. Please, Mr. Juske!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good college people! Dear Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you, on behalf of the heirs, for the relevant and substantive answers, as we are discussing here today a very important issue in the key to the future of Estonia. This is because Estonians will never grow up in number or strength, but we can be great in spirit. This strong Estonian spirit, however, relies on strong education, one of the important cornerstones of which is higher education in Estonian. Higher education, which must be of high quality and accessible to all who appreciate learning and strive for new knowledge. Our public universities are suffering from chronic underfunding. The result is to narrow down or close down free Estonian-language curricula. Universities have already announced such forced cuts. Minister Kersna and her fellow thinkers will take Estonia back step by step towards paid or, at least part, paid higher education. It's a sad fact that you can't hide with a nice story anymore. The salaries of teachers in general education schools have not been able to bring Minister Kersna to the promised 120% of the national average wage, not even close to it. The Ministry's higher education policy, however, is even worse. It is no exaggeration to say that the funding of Estonian universities is in a crisis, a very serious crisis. It is quite extraordinary that the rectors of public universities must not conclude administrative contracts with the Ministry, the Estonian State. In essence, this means that the Estonian state does not order any study places from universities. This scandalous situation, to put it mildly, is already going on from the beginning of February, with no end to this crisis yet to be seen. Yes, Minister Kersna, in this speech chair today, shook himself a little bit into the head that he, too, has not been able to fight enough money out of the state budget for the universities. He probably doesn't have enough weight at the government table, or the Reform Party just doesn't want to give the universities any extra money. There is no political will to support the continuation of free learning. The additional budget under preparation is not expected to be needed, and so we also heard today that perhaps the money needed by universities will be found in the state budget for next year. This means, however, that there will be no solution to this issue before the end of the year. Rectors of our universities are calling for a 15% increase in basic funding over four years to keep funding at least today's level. Yes, the sum of our universities has gained money every year because the state budget has simply increased. However, funding for higher education has fallen from 1.5% of GDP to less than 1.1%. At the same time, as we know, there is a very rapid rise in prices, inflation, which is why universities need additional money to cover their economic costs. However, the need to raise the pay of teaching staff is already seriously screaming. Figuratively speaking, universities are burning their salaries in the oven to keep their houses warm. Of course, in the current security crisis, the government can say that good university people, please suffer for a few more years, because Estonia's statehood is in danger. Such a message, however, would mean shooting [in the foot] in the long view. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which was born 30 years ago, sets the purpose of this country the survival of Estonian [ethnic], language and culture throughout the ages, forever. The decisions of the government led by the Reform Party have already led to the tightening of Estonian-language free higher education. This will not help us in any way towards achieving the objective set out in the Constitution. It is not the responsibility of any other country in the world to maintain and develop higher education and science in Estonian. We must not give ourselves a discount here, because this will weaken the Estonian spirit and then the cannons and bullets will no longer help. Then we're very easy prey for the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U169	And now Jack White. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U170	I'm asking you to give me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U171	If you have a wish, you can. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U172	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm original when I say that the problems of higher education can be divided into two. First, such acute, inquiring terminology chronic [problems]. These two concepts do not necessarily contradict themselves, and at present it seems that they do not exist at the same time. The second level is fundamental problems. A while ago, perhaps we could have hoped that we could solve these problems, the problems at both levels together, and that we would have made a proper reform, but now it seems that this time has gone. It seems that, in itself, in order to ensure that the system, which is not the best or, at least, fully outdated, can inevitably continue to function together with all its defects, this acute problem needs to be resolved immediately. Of course, it is extremely sad that the University of Tallinn and the University of Tartu have decided to make the society aware of their budgetary problems or to signal them with the closure of Estonian-language curricula. Let's say that the government is currently under pressure at the cost of damaging Estonian society. But it is not right to blame universities either, because the person in need still uses the most effective means to signal his or her distress. I am not going to talk about a chronic acute problem, but I note that the expenditure of the Estonian state on higher education has not been low. In fact, I have taken out the most recent OECD report "Education at a Glance." According to this, we have expenditure on higher education services per student, adjusted for purchasing power parity, higher than the OECD average. Higher than in France or Ireland, for example, not to mention all Eastern bloc countries. If you don't believe it, check it out, Table C1. 3. However, given the proportion of GDP in educational expenditure, it turns out that we are slightly below the OECD average in terms of the proportion of all educational expenditure, i.e. funding for all educational establishments. I am thinking about pre-school institutions, general education schools and universities together. In these cases, we are slightly below the OECD average, but we are still crossing all the countries of the Eastern bloc. If we look only at universities, we are very high on the proportion of GDP, crossing Sweden, Finland, Belgium and France, for example, not to mention all the other Eastern bloc countries. Here you go, check it out, Table C2. 2. It is true that this is the 2018 data, which is the most recent data available to us. It is also true that the financial situation has deteriorated since 2018. It's true. But the fundamental problems of universities were already the same as they are now in 2018. So, we have a lot of things to think about. The first conclusion should be that we need reform and, before doing so, a proper analysis and clarity as to whether, looking at universities with a longer focus, more support should be given to universities or vocational training institutions. According to the OSA reports, the labour market expects more graduates of vocational training institutions than graduates of universities. We are, in fact, completely unaware of the proportion our population should have with university education. The strategy makers have looked at the ceiling and written down a number. But let's just say that as sure as it is that we need a comprehensive reform of the education system, I am also saying that the government is unable or unwilling to do so now. Whatever it is, I'm going to repeat over this acute problem that universities need more money right now. I think I have some time to talk about fundamental problems. First of all, two problems: quality and relevance of graduates to labour market needs. It's obvious that neither of these things are in order. The wage bonus for highly educated workers aged between 25 and 34 is the fifth in the OECD countries in Estonia, and this wage bonus has decreased steadily. Check it out, Table A4. 4. However, according to the European Survey of Skills and Jobs, the gaps between jobs, workers' skills and education acquired in Estonia are among the largest in the European Union, while the proportion of over-qualified young people in Estonia is among the largest among the countries of the European Union. At the same time, the largest share of people in Estonia is those who do not have enough knowledge and skills to do their job. Of course, it's different from one specialty to another. But according to the National Audit Office's audit two years ago, the conclusion was that the students' professional choices have moved from the labour needs of society to the opposite direction. I have not seen anything decisive being done to change it. The third problem, of course, is pointless English language. A large or majority of foreign students who have studied in English will receive a document certifying Estonian higher education on behalf of the taxpayer in Estonia and then leave Estonia. A large part of foreign students regret that they have not learned enough Estonian to stay in Estonia. Training one foreign student, even if he or she should pay tuition fees, does not pay a large part of it, is much more expensive for the Estonian labour market than teaching an Estonian student. However, the average salary of the remaining workers in the Estonian labour market is lower than that of the Estonian graduates, at master's level by as much as one fifth. A part of Estonian students will also study in English. There is no doubt that learning in native language is still more effective. Does anyone doubt that? Nor can there be any doubt that the increasingly widespread and dominant English language in higher education institutions poses a threat to the use of our language, the vitality of our mother tongue. Unlike the above problems and the need for a comprehensive reform of the education system, this pointless English-languageisation could be stopped immediately and not only through administrative agreements, where the Minister of Education and Research should also be commended for the fact that these changes have been made, but should also amend the law on higher education. That's the bill we've put forward. But I will end with a reconfirmation that the chronic acute problem, or financing, needs to be resolved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U173	The members of the Riigikogu seem to have no more wishes for words. The Minister has requested an end. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U174	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I thought I'd say a few more things. Firstly, how many universities have changed receptions in their specialties based on labour needs. If I look at the 2012/2013 academic year comparison with the 2020/2021 academic year, what do I see? In business, administration, law, the [acceptance] has fallen significantly, while the number of study places in ICT and health, for example, has increased. In itself, these are real trends. They have grown slightly in education as well. But actually, I wanted to come to the end of this remote control because, since I was repeatedly accused, Minister Kersnat, I looked at what, while the Social Democratic Party was in the government, he did for the funding of higher education. In November 2016 you came to power, 2017 Higher Education Finance Operating Support fell by 0.7%, 2018 rose by 2%, then further by 3.1%. I said I was embarrassed. I didn't get any extra money in the government to finance higher education and I found EUR 5 million in the field in order to give more money to higher education. This was exactly the 3.1% increase in operating support that seems to have been sufficient during the period of government. I ask what you have done to better finance higher education. Higher education has long been underfunded. I understand that, of course, I bear this responsibility today, I bear this responsibility very clearly, and I have also tried to take responsibility by reviewing the money within the area. Teachers' wages: more than EUR 9 million went into teachers' salaries out of the money available in the field. I understand that this is not a matter of pride, probably in the field of education would have found other places to put this money in, but teachers' pay was a priority, actually was a priority. I didn't wait for the hand in front of [long], just the extra money. If we really think that funding for higher education and the pay of teachers is a priority, then we also need to review the money within the area. So strength for all of us! I am very pleased that the Social Democrats are keeping the matter public. I am very pleased that you are meeting with the Rectors, just as I am meeting very closely with the Rectors. Only together, I believe, can we resolve this problem in the long term too, that the next ministers should not say that look at what you once did when you were in the government. Let's hope we don't have to hear any more of these accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U175	I'm closing the negotiations. We have exhausted this question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now the case that we are done with the agenda, but as always on Mondays, it is possible to speak within a free microphone. So after the hammer hit, please let me know. That's not what you want. Then today's trial is over. Have a good night and I'll see you tomorrow... [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay, but then next time, please, do a little faster! Mr. Kruusimäe, a free microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U177	Thank you, good vice chairman. I didn't know there was a really good hand round here, there might be a number of seconds, but I'm trying to be faster, I assumed someone might be a little bit faster. The good people who watch and constantly step up on the street, grab the button and say that this thing is done, the other thing is done, the third, the fourth, the fifth. Well, it's not really done. We have courts grinding slowly, but fairly, and the Riigikogu is not quicker. Maybe the local government is even more competent, but yes. Let's get down to business. On 21 March, Fatherland and surprisingly, the EKRE also handed over a draft law to amend the arms law. It was March 21st. It's almost April 21st. So far, the Government of the Republic has not been able to shape its own position and the procedure stands. But the people who read the ticket already know that it's like it's been handled. These symbols are not yet legalized. For people who bother to observe, [for knowledge,] this is a good number, 585 SE, or the draft of the government and the draft of the Fatherland, were merged and its readings will come to us on Wednesday and Thursday so that you can know how they are going to take place. When did those Butša horrors come to light? In the first few days, it was already said that it was genocide. The Riigikogu will probably reach this result and hit the hammer on Thursday. So what you read about the seituks isn't exactly what real life is. We've got a lot of time to process. I was talking here about the need to amend the law on the election of the local government council so that the people of third countries who live here cannot decide on our affairs. Without will, we have such municipalities where indigenous people are outnumbered. People from another cultural space, with another mentality, and now also insanely supporting aggression, speak of the Russian Federation, are dictating to our people how it is decent to live. To this idea, I haven't found any company yet, no peers, no friends of mind, but work is underway, work is underway. So always pick up your ambassador's button, ask him what he's done for this, for the second, third or fourth, because most people lose the importance of the problem just as it's written in the paper. And the newspaper wrote: "Is Georgi's tape forbidden? " The question mark is behind, but the person thinks: " Wow, it's done! " We can only talk about this on a Thursday day. Did Butchas be declared genocide and genocide throughout Ukraine? We can talk about that on Thursday. Watch more live broadcasts in the Riigikogu, watch us on YouTube, you will be a little more familiar with things and you may understand that the media is doing these great stories also because more clicks are needed. If there are more clicks, that is the argument, that is, they are users and, accordingly, there is an advantage for other advertising publications. Here's a little ad: wash your hands and love each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-18_U178	Now we've run out of voice requests in a free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Today's session is over. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
