ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U1	Minister, thank you very much for this very good presentation. There are questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm sure it's a very important bill. But why don't you break up the score-pays issue? What are the conditions under which exactly this performance salary may be paid? And what might result in a wage being paid for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U3	Thank you for your question. We also had this issue up in the Committee on Monetary Affairs under discussion. The regulation or proposal then in the draft is that, if a performance fee of more than EUR 50000 per year is paid in the form of a performance fee of a very large amount, more than EUR 50000, then we have a transferable European Union law that provides for the possibility of requiring 50% to be paid either in shares or in similar instruments. And the purpose of this, such a requirement, has been, figuratively speaking, more to link the managers of individual investment firms to this particular undertaking. In other words, the investment firm manager should take into account the longer term perspective and its impact on the investment firm when taking risks. And this similar requirement already applies to management companies and banks, for example. And also in our debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the question was that what if there is no investment firm practice that it issues shares or equity options, or if it is also a company in which the group structure does not allow it? Then, of course, the Financial Supervision Authority may make an exception and not require it. So that's not an absolute requirement. Of course, this situation needs to be looked at in each individual case. And, of course, I think that it is important to stress that, when it comes to an investment firm of the "lowest class," i.e. an investment firm belonging to small investment firms, this requirement does not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U4	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U5	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm looking at six of these second-class investment firms in our market somewhere, some 100-million-dollar assets, but it says here that a couple of thousand behind-the-line investment companies are looking hungry at our market, where there are six. One of them has a thick end, the other one has such margins alongside it. How can it work if this few thousand beyond the border come to our market? And are they coming, or have they just let you know that you want to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U6	Thank you. Right now we have seven investment firms. And, as has been said, with this draft, we are taking over European Union law, which means that a similar law applies in all the countries of the European Union, we do not stand out in any way in this regard. And the seven that have now been authorised by the Financial Supervision Authority are, for the most part, included in this second class, i.e. medium-sized investment companies. It is very difficult to predict whether anyone, how many people and what kind of interest Estonia might have at one point, but, as has been said, it is a right which, in this case, applies jointly throughout the European Union. We are in no way in a special position or in a special status. In this sense, they must comply with these requirements and rules, in any country in the European Union they should be willing to take action.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U7	Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U8	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. This bill transposes two directives of the European Union into Estonian law. I have such a desire, a desire to find out whether our government officials do not have the appropriate competence, that they are unable themselves to develop a prudential and supervisory framework for investment firms. And then what happens, the other side of the question would be, what happens if we do not adopt this directive of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U9	Thank you. After all, it is in our interest that these rules are rather similar and that the rules are applied in the same way in the various Member States of the European Union. So it is certainly in the interests of this sector to take them over. And to answer the first part of your question, whether we ourselves have no competence: no competence, it is quite there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U10	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here, in these directives, there is certainly much that is necessary and there is also an added value for the environment, which is worth taking over, but there is also a lot, or, well, let's say, there is such a strange issue in it. We still have a practice that the board of directors, the company board, appoints the board of directors and lays down the remuneration and other conditions of management. But now here, let's say, in the case of these investment firms, if this volume of assets is more than 100 million, which is not a very high threshold, some sort of remuneration committee still needs to be created between the board and the board. What's that for? What added value does this bring to solving problems? After all, it is also the company, the shareholders and, at the expense of the company's profits, the remuneration must also be paid to this committee. What added value does such a Committee bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U12	Thank you, good questioner! Good question. This is probably the goal of longer-term and more thorough consideration of remuneration. And whether it is absolutely necessary to pay a separate salary to the Committee, I don't think anyone is going to make such a requirement. This is definitely not the case automatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U13	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U14	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I'd still like to come to the issue of the payoff. We know that our pension funds, too, there were periods where it didn't seem like it was glowing with its very good results. Now it has also been said here that indeed, the performance fee can be reduced if the results are modest. Perhaps you could open up what that would mean in modest numbers? In what land is the result modest? Is there, I don't know, 5% profit enough? Or does it have to be 10% or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U15	Thank you. The law does not set such a thing or such a limit, does not tell anyone, or does not make it compulsory to set a performance fee. On the contrary, the upper limit is what we're talking about here. As has been said, if the performance premium is paid more than EUR 50000 per year, then apply this 50% payment either in shares or in similar instruments. And, as has been said, this does not apply to small investment firms. Similarly, in the case of loss-making investment firms, it is clear that no performance fee will be paid there. But specific percentages and valuations, this certainly is not a matter of law at the level of the individual investment firm to assess such performance. This cannot be done at the level of the law, and I hope that never will.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U17	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You said to my previous question when I asked you that 2000 would like to come here, like there are many economic regions in Europe, but here I read that the Financial Supervision Authority has said, or rather has informed the Financial Supervision Authority, that they would like to stick their noses in it. My question was, what does that mean for the seven little ones in front of us? And the second little question is, some new terms: what kind of animal is this clearing member?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U18	Can I ask you this last question for a moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U19	Yeah, not an animal, sorry, that's my expression. But the clearing member, this is a new term that we take over into Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U20	Thank you. First of all, what does it mean to add new players? Well, on a small market, it always means more competition. But once again, seven eligible investment firms have now been authorised, and it is not known at the moment that such a quantity is actually being added to the market immediately. Of course, this would mean, on the one hand, a greater choice as to which investment firm service to use when these players are added. But, yeah, right now we have seven of whom we're dealing with. And now I have to say that this second part of your question, obviously we have to specify what exactly it was after, a little bit of confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U21	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must say that Mr Sõerd, a well-respected colleague, is undoubtedly a very good reform party. But when the subjects go, say, to banking, he often forgets it, and he's really passionate about checking it out. I fully agree with what he asked you about whether this committee would be needed in the meantime and whether money would have to be paid for it. You said it wasn't an obligation. And I have the same problem, actually. Maybe you can sign that law so that this committee doesn't get the money, then you can save the money, and you can keep Aivar calm. Me too, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U23	Thank you. I very much agree with you on all the praise you have just said about Aivar Sõerd. And all the amendments that will be tabled between the first and second reading of the draft, we will have to examine them and consider what can be taken into account. After all, in this Parliament, you are the judge of the changes made to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U24	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U25	Good manager! Dear Minister, I also certainly like the fact that the compensation rate may rise from 100,000 to 170000 in this draft. There's a side to this property sale. But why don't you tell me how long it's gonna be, when it's gonna be reimbursed? Is it one month when the money's been on the bill, or is it another number?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U26	Thank you. If I may, I will specify this later in writing, just in case, in order not to be mistaken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U27	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, No, Aivar Sõerdi can be commended, and that is why I will continue. Looking at how Mr Sõerd raised this question, and also reading this very difficult text myself, I do have the feeling again that we have turned a few winks over these directives when we transpose them. This bureaucracy has been enjoying itself, not looking for such a minimum level, but groping about where the ceiling is about this bureaucracy, and sometimes the ceiling has hit its head. Where would you put this bill now: are we on this minimum level, are we on top of the ceiling, or are we already through the ceiling?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U29	Thank you. We're on just the right level. And I say, of course, during the drafting of this draft, we also consulted the parties involved themselves. We asked Finance Estonia, the Banking Association, investment companies, but also the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank for an opinion. So the parties concerned by this amendment are aware of this draft and have not expressed such detail and concerns as have been heard in this Chamber. In this sense, I think the proposed regulation has become quite good.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U30	Minister, it has now happened that there are no more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U32	Thank you. I ask for a chair of speech in the Riigikogu from anyone other than Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, 505 SE's first reading, held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 January. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, and Toomas Honourable, Deputy Head of the Financial Services Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance participated. Indeed, the draft takes over two EU directives and amends the management and capital requirements of investment firms so that they take better account of the business models and risks of investment firms. And during this debate on 17 January, the Minister gave us an overview of the draft. Most important aspects have already been reported by the Minister. But yes, here is the question of changes in management and capital requirements, then of the increase in the limits on the compensation of deposits guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. Okay. As investment firms and banks are currently subject to similar capital management requirements, they are not flexible enough for investment firms. The draft will make these requirements more proportionate for investment firms. This regulation as a whole takes better account of the risks and business models of different investment firms. Investment firms are divided into three categories by size: large, medium and smaller. The Minister has already talked about capital requirements; he is not going to repeat it here. This issue of performance fees was also mentioned. It is also important to stress that the amendments concern the simplification of the provision of investment services and the increase in the ceiling for the reimbursement of savings, which I mentioned. It was discussed. We had two issues in the Commission. My colleague, Aivar Kokk, asked why a performance fee should be paid to board members in shares and how other shareholders would be affected by this situation. And how does such remuneration be paid in companies that are not on the stock exchange? Mr Honourable explained that the requirement must be made out of the European Union's regulations and cannot be sidelined; they must be transposed. The purpose of this regulation is to link the commitment of the manager more closely with the company where he works. However, payment does not necessarily take place in shares; it can also be done in other securities. For example, an investment firm may issue bonds that do not directly give voting rights in an investment firm. So the choice to use the instrument remains up to the investment firm. Okay. Then I asked myself about the categorisation of these investment companies operating in Estonia. As far as banks are concerned, we have systemically important banks. Are investment firms here also systemically important, i.e. first class investment firms? They do not exist, our investment firms, which are seven now, six of them are in the second grade: Admiral Markets, Cresco Securities, KAWE CAPITAL, KIT Finance Europe, Redgate Capital, Funderbeam Markets and Grünfin, which are later, last created, it should fall into the third category. Yeah. These were the issues that we addressed in the Commission. The Commission also made decisions. First, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 26 January; then to propose that the first reading be closed; thirdly, to appoint a member of the Commission as rapporteur here; and fourthly, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 February, i.e. 10 working days. All these decisions were consensual. Attention! I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U34	Great. Thank you, good waitress. One question, at least for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U35	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The Minister has just suggested that if the word 'clearing' does not fit, then, as a parliament, we could propose and change that we have this opportunity. But at this late hour, we can talk to the cards open. If officials have also found that it should be a clearing member, a ministry representative says that he may not support this proposal from Parliament, and the coalition ambassadors will vote in it without knowing what the clearing member is. I realized that a clearing member is a clearing member, came out, giving me this kind of answer from Mr. Google right here at this point. Do we, say, still have a lot of bureaucracy, but should the laws that we adopt be understood in Estonian as well? And don't have all the loan words, I don't know, maybe it's the word "clearing" in Estonian, but we don't have to do any dark translation. Is that too bureaucratic, I ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U36	Yes, this is what happens here in our drafts so that the texts can be more understandable. But I looked at it, it's terminology, it's not really here, there are four new terms. A small and unrelated investment firm, translated from the English text, that is clear, that is clear. From the capital of a group, well, that's understandable. Now the net present value of the financial term is again, net in English. But then it's a yes, here's the fourth, the clearing term. A clearing member shall be an undertaking that participates in the CCP and is responsible for fulfilling the financial obligations arising from that participation. I admit I got a little embarrassed when I read the explanation for that term. I think I understand what this means, but maybe we can ask for it, specify it. What exactly is this CCP participant? He's some kind of opposite character, the opposite character, but that's, yes, that term, that term explanation is, a little bit better phrased, yes. But no, but there aren't too many new terms, and I don't think it's that big a problem yet. Perhaps the bigger problem here is perhaps that too much, even with this remuneration or with performance remuneration. There should be a reasonable balance here, which we are still accustomed to in our business environment, that shareholders decide, shareholders appoint the board, the board has their roles, but here the law may want to prescribe more than we are used to in our usual practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U37	We can go on with the questions. Aivar Sõerd, may I? Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U38	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm telling you, this salary nominating committee, it's purely a freeloader. We can say the English word. You don't really, really need them, but it's also a chance for relatives and acquaintances to find a good place where they have to look at these salaries from time to time. My question, however, is that. The Minister said there are seven investment companies now. There are others coming to the market; they invest broadly in the Estonian market. Now that some of the larger internationals come and eat the smaller ones and at some point our economy will remain dependent on their majors, if they simply decide at some point that investments in Estonia will no longer be invested or carried out. How to protect Estonian investment companies and how to protect the Estonian economy in situations like the one I described?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U39	In fact, we did not discuss this issue in the Commission. But let's talk about it. I don't think there's a problem here, or the danger you're seeing. In fact, compared to the rest of the world, the Estonian financial sector is rather banking-oriented. We're dominated by banks. When entrepreneurs need capital, they go to the bank to ask for a loan. Such a share of equity could be greater or the possibility of offering equity investments could be greater. We actually have a more banking sector than Europe and America, not to mention the United States. So, in fact, the assets of these seven investment firms are only 100 million in total. In fact, these services, even securities intermediation, securities issuance, the management of bonds issues, I think there could be more providers of these services on the market than these seven companies. But this activity has been taking place in recent years, their activity has increased, and when foreign capital comes here, I don't see a problem. In banking, on the contrary, domestic capital offers very strong competition to Swedish owners, banks of Swedish capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U40	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to say that pursuant to § 98 (4) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, a member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions at first reading of the draft. This debate seems to be going well, so I call for it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Good waitress, I really tried to help you. I made sure it moved on, and let's go further in the details. But there's no more questions right now. Thank you, good waitress, no further questions. So, and now, as usual, is there a desire to open negotiations? This is a draft 505. Very well, I will open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner. Please! Eight minutes, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U41	Let's see.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U42	All right, let's not rush.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U43	Let's not rush. But anyway, I was inspired by your proposal to come here, and this brave back always gives me a certain sense of coming here. Thank you very much for that, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, I suspect I won't take advantage of eight minutes. I'd like to say a few thoughts, though. When I asked if we were once again ratifying the one directive that we do here every week, taking over, whether we were going to make a few more rounds like this with fun and pleasure, it seems to me that we have done it again this time. Two keywords: the basis of the performance fee and their determination. If these, here it is said that indeed, if the result is negative, there is no reason to pay the result. But if the result is like modest, then it's like you can reduce it. Does it have to be done by law? Does such a text necessarily need to be introduced? In pension funds, it seems to me that a few years ago, a performance fee was paid, so it was quite flat, regardless of what the result was. Maybe now we've been inspired to sign in the law, but then we'll find the reasons that the result wasn't so bad. And, indeed, the remuneration committee here, I also congratulate my colleague Sõerdi, who raised this question: ultimately, whether we are not increasing pointless bureaucracy. This is the part where we still need laws for all of this. And what my colleague Ernitsa said, well, it is, in my opinion, a pound of today in a sense, this "clearing member." Indeed, it also shows the level of the law that we are discussing here together in the late or, in fact, early morning. I think it could actually be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U44	Thank you very much. Thank you. Any more calls? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 505 must be completed. I will set the deadline of 9 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U45	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws (507 SE). I ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you the draft amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, which is due to the need to respond to the risks arising from the rapid development of financial technology. The scope of this bill is services similar to financial services, which can theoretically be used for money laundering or terrorist financing. Estonia was one of the first countries in the world to regulate and license providers of virtual currencies. The very rapid development of technology and innovation in the financial sector is something that we, as a country, decided that we wanted to be benchmarks here in 2017. In doing so, we also took responsibility for finding ways to mitigate abuses, in particular the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The popularity of virtual currencies has exploded, but in addition to enthusiasts and investors-developers in this area, fast and anonymous solutions have, unfortunately, become consciously used by criminals. In this context, the risk for Estonia, as the issuing State, has increased in a similar way. The aim of this draft is to reduce the likelihood of misuse that the current legal framework allows. The sector itself is international. However, very many companies issued in Estonia and authorised by Estonia have little connection with Estonia, which means that supervision is difficult at the moment. Inconsistent awareness in the sector has been identified, as well as lack of due diligence by virtual currency providers. The risk manifests itself as crimes of money laundering and terrorist financing, fraud and theft. For example, the demand for ransom payments by hackers who paralyze institutions' websites and applications has caused a lot of real damage. In addition, virtual currency services may be used to avoid international financial sanctions. And if we ignore the risks that have now arisen, unfortunately, this could have very sad consequences not only for this sector, but for the state as a whole, for the state as a whole. A realised money laundering scheme or terrorist financing through one of the virtual currency service providers licensed in Estonia would certainly cause serious reputational damage, the impact of which would be passed on much more widely and also to other sectors. This means that our reputation or our credibility in the eyes of our important partners will certainly be undermined. Of course, the risk associated with virtual currencies and virtual currency services has not only occurred in Estonia, but has been published in a large number of countries. The rapid increase in risk is marked by an increase in the popularity and availability of virtual currencies. It must be said that, also with regard to the COVID, part of crime has moved more online, often generating revenue in the form of virtual currency. The virtual currency sector is vulnerable to the average as operational requirements have been there and are currently lower than in the financial sector. Estonia responds to risk and these risks in three ways or in three waves. The draft before you proposes the most urgent changes necessary to mitigate the risks. These changes are starting to have an impact as of this year. The second step is the Act on crowdfunding and other investment instruments and virtual currencies. This is a draft which is still in the coordination circle and is already undergoing a broader reform, and a new, permanent regulatory solution will also be found for virtual currency services. The third step is the implementation of European Union law. However, as many people know in this Chamber, European Union law in this area is still in negotiations and these initiatives are likely to have an impact in three or more years' time. The aim and direction of all these three regulations, let us say, are the same, and the measures they take are all consistent with each other. So, along with the development of the sector, there is gradual regulation. This bill regulates in more detail the concept of providers of virtual currencies, obliges them to retain transaction data and to share them among service providers. This will enable research institutions, where appropriate, to restore the path of the virtual currency movement, which will play a central role in preventing crime within the meaning of international standards. In addition, we have a proposal to introduce additional operational requirements, requiring further reflection on the service provision, a stronger link with Estonia, which is necessary in order to enable our supervisory authorities to monitor these services in practice as well. Thirdly, we also foresee further changes of a more technical nature that are necessary for the Money Laundering Data Bureau. The possibility shall be given to carry out background checks on the staff and officials of the data bureau itself. Just to remind you that in the past, the Money Laundering Data Bureau (RAB) has been part of the Police and Border Guard Board. It is now an institution that operates under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. It is therefore also necessary to introduce this amendment in order to allow them to carry out, at the same time, a background check that was possible in the past. Non-profit organisations and foundations operating in countries subject to sanctioning regimes become obliged persons to reduce their exploitation by terrorist donors. When establishing identity, the debtor must continue to collect data on the means of communication of the natural person. Some of the changes necessary for the effective functioning of the database of beneficial owners will also be made. This is the kind of bill that I have to talk about, too, things that this bill does not do. The draft does not regulate technology, regulate not all services related to virtual currency, but only services capable of converting, maintaining, transferring and growing virtual assets. Perhaps these services are the scope of this bill, which has common features with financial services and which uses a theoretical opportunity to launder money or finance terrorism. No technology will be banned. Neither the possession of a virtual currency nor the restriction of turnover for the consumer in any way. The target group of the regulation is service providers who have been granted an Estonian licence. The draft also takes into account that not all other countries may have extended the international standard to providers of virtual currency. Nor do all virtual money bags or transactions necessarily have a different technical side to pass the information on to. The draft therefore also allows service providers to mediate transactions with service providers that do not yet apply the requirements and with separate wallets. However, in the case of such transactions, service providers need to monitor the transaction risk in real time. Technical solutions for this are already well in place and, in fact, in many cases have been introduced. As I mentioned earlier, having taken the pioneering role with Estonia once, the international community, not only active in this area, but also in this area, expects us to find regulatory options to implement international standards on the prevention of money laundering. And we are in this case the ones whose example other countries may begin to shape their own regulations and solutions. So that's why we can't stay here in a passive or waiting role. We have an active and cross-border sector on which we, as a country, have a responsibility, so that they are not also exploited in any way by the bad guys. Businesses that act honestly and create real innovation should not and should not suffer because of those who do not understand their role and responsibility as part of this new financial system and want to abuse it or do not want to cooperate meaningfully with supervision. I would also like to thank all those market participants, such as the Estonian Founders' Association, who are very active and meaningful in thinking about how we can achieve this result, which supports the objective that we have had when presenting the bill, that innovation, including innovation in the financial sector, is expected in Estonia, but the risks must be grounded and honest-minded developers, innovative service providers, developers should not be afraid that these evil-intentioned players will ultimately be fooled or, let us say, by using sufficiently precise regulation in any way to put their reputation in jeopardy. So, by presenting this draft and during these discussions, which have already taken place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have overconfirmed from the Ministry of Finance and the Government that we are certainly prepared to act carefully, decisively, in cooperation with the Commission. If necessary, we will also develop amendments that would help achieve these objectives even more effectively, to mitigate risks, so that the draft is unambiguously understood by everyone who operates in this sector and the risks we identified last year in the risk assessment analysis can really be landed effectively. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U47	Thank you, Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U48	Good manager! Good madam minister! As I understand it, the rafts of crooks are thronging around an innovative environment like Estonia with virtual currency. And if you look here, in 2020, there were 368 rogue permits issued, including 108, or a third. This has been the case for only three months in 2021, and it will soon be the third month of 2022. How's that slope? It has also been said that the pressure of the crooks, so to speak, on us, on this honey pot has skyrocketed. What do these jumping figures look like in 2021? How many of those rascals were there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U49	Thank you. I have no way of commenting on what you've referred to or what you've identified. But this is a very serious matter, the risks really are great in this sector, not only are there certainly great opportunities and there are great opportunities for innovation. However, at present, part of the risks are related to this, as I said in my introduction, that there are a large number of companies operating with the licences applied for in Estonia, which do not really have much to do with Estonia. Which means that we will not actually be able to exercise any supervision over them. However, since the licence has been issued by Estonia, if it should become clear that they are acting for less honest purposes, the damage to their reputation and the damage that is actually caused by it will extend to Estonia first and foremost, and this risk we consider important to mitigate. That is why you have also been presented with a draft which specifically sets out the requirements for virtual service providers in a much more precise way. Among other things, it states that we would still like to make sure in the future that this activity is related to Estonia in one way or another when issuing the licence, not that the authorisation issued in Estonia is used as a tie leaf somewhere else, knowing that Estonia is not in a position to exercise supervision and control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U50	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! In particular, recognition once again for the restoration of an important area. But it's more like a two-part question. First of all, I understand that we are once again at the forefront when we also set an example in order for quite a number of countries in the field. Are there other good countries like this, and what experience do they have in this area? Are there any examples? And another thing, maybe very human. Those Estonian people who own virtual currencies in some form, bitcoins and so on, will anything change for them with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U52	Thank you. This draft law regulates and targets providers of virtual currency services. In other words, individuals who own, for example, the wallet of virtual currencies are not affected by it in this form. This concerns service providers and concerns those service providers for whom a licence is valid. And in the case of other countries, there are probably a lot of people waiting for the European Union to be ready with its rules first. Of course, when we talk about other countries, say the situation at all, when we talk about permits issued, there is really no one who can be compared to Estonia. For example, in the case of Great Britain, licences have been issued for 12, not for 120, but for the whole of Great Britain for 12, for example in the Netherlands for 22, for Germany for 3. There were 381 active licences in Estonia only recently. Just to bring them to comparison, to get an idea of which orders of magnitude we're talking about. And Estonia is essentially one of the first, in fact the first, to set rules at such a level, to deal with risks so extensively in this form. That is why I also stressed that we have the opportunity here to become a country from which others can later follow the rules, and we are certainly ready to share our experiences. And I believe that there is actually a great deal of interest in sharing the experience of applying these rules. Because concern and perception of risks and the perception that a very rapidly developing area is also associated with large risks, it is still emerging internationally in practically all countries. So we are being looked at carefully and, in fact, expectations of us are certainly high.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U53	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U54	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. According to this draft, §753 (2) describes the volume of the supervisory fee. And if I understand correctly, this is 0.035% of the total amount of transactions initiated or accepted in the course of the provision of the service, i.e. turnover. Now, the global crypto market is in trillions. The larger platforms in which they are traded are in billions, which means that the supervisory fee for such a platform is in millions. Now, if we take the example of a talented developer from Estonia, who creates a platform with a turnover of billions, then it means that he may not have the money to pay this supervisory fee, because the specific nature of the crypto market is this, the profit does not translate from the turnover in any way. Do I get this logic right and what this 0.035% is derived from? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U55	Good questioner, your time! I'm sorry, but we've been given 60 seconds. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U56	Thank you. Firstly, the supervisory fee is certainly linked to the scale and severity of this risk, the proposal made in the draft. I am aware that the proposal to charge the bill has caused, or is causing, concerns in the sector, and probably is the specific amount of the fee that we need to discuss during the procedure for this draft. Maybe the same percentage you referred to. And it is clear that, as has been said, as the risks are high, the sector is growing very quickly and growing, as turnover has grown very rapidly for the players in this sector, the supervisory fee may also seem very high for many, either proportionally or in sum. Is there any reason to review where to draw the line exactly? I think this is something that needs to be discussed between the first reading of the draft and the second reading. I know that this is one of the concerns that companies active in this sector are seeing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U57	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U58	Good manager! Dear Minister, If anyone asks if this bill is needed, they definitely do. Whether that's exactly how you need him, that's questionable. This is certainly what the Committee on Monetary Affairs is for to discuss with the parties. Yesterday, we had parties at our desk. It hatched that this bill was particularly needed, because when one undertaking feared that it would leave the market and it would be the largest, it would have a turnover of 300 million, but a public tax would cost 100,000. Then, frankly, the question arose as to how many people he has at work or whether they really pay the minimum wage. But I ask, because we are like the pioneering role, I have come up with this question, yesterday's committee meeting showed the same thing that we have more concern about the fact that the money laundering office is perhaps too big a role and it is not always able to do that role, and then there is fear that something might happen, and that is why the laws are being made so harsh that there is no such law anywhere else in Europe today. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U59	Thank you. What exactly was the question, of course, was a little confusing, but I agree with you that this law is definitely needed. And really, once we find out there are risks, these risks need to be mitigated. And if there are better proposals on how to do this even more effectively, so that indeed, honest-minded companies should not worry that unscrupulous operators can later tarnish the reputation of the whole sector and cause much trouble for a very long time. If there are proposals on how to do it even more effectively and better, they are certainly welcome. This draft, I think, can be argued over, the rigour, or whether the proposed provisions should be even more stringent in some places, as can be seen from the coordination table at the draft and the feedback table, for example, that some of the proposals were precisely in this direction. I think there are certainly places in this bill that may have to be written in more detail. But it's important that the risks get grounded, and we can't compromise on that. It is also in the interests of the sector itself and, more generally, in the interests of the Estonian economic environment. What we can already see in the current procedure of this draft is that there are a lot of questions that are understandable, because it is a new regulation or, let's say, an improvement in regulation, it is a new area, and often there are more fears among those involved in the sector today than would be justified. These fears must be taken down, the background of this regulation must be clarified, the regulation itself must be clarified, and, as has been said, if necessary and where it is necessary, either to dim the wording or the regulation itself, it must be done, and that is certainly what we are prepared to do in cooperation with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, also to formulate proposals where the need arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U60	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good minister! Looking at the explanatory memorandum, both the Board of Auditors and the Estonian Cryptorah Association have been somehow hesitant about the audit capability and possibility, with reference to the lack of competence and other things. On the other hand, it is understandable that this audit must come, there is no doubt about that either. But also looking at the fact that this law is intended to be enforced as early as 1 February 2002, then probably this is an optimistic time. What about the auditors? How much do we have? Are these deadlines appropriate when they should be audited? And should the annual reports for 2021, be already audited? What about the auditing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U62	Thank you. First of all, it cannot be accepted that auditors are unable or unwilling to control providers of virtual currency. We have also dealt directly with the board of auditors and, in fact, the auditors feel the importance of this area themselves, and that the risks that exist in this area rather require such an expert and competent look and intervention. The period of entry into force that you referred to cannot certainly be 1 February; it is now clear. When this draft went to the coordination circle, there was, let us say, an initial plan and a plan that would also be able to present it to Parliament more quickly, but now, of course, this 1st February must be revised as a deadline. This still depends on when the law is approved in Parliament and when this general entry into force procedure is. We want to do this as soon as possible because, in fact, every additional day in this area, if it were already possible to apply these new hedge measures, I think, is only our victory. But those deadlines, of course, must be taken over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U63	Yeah, thanks a lot, thanks a lot! Let's move on. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If Aivar Kokk here received such a complaint a few moments ago that the question was extremely confusing, then I will try to ask you very specifically. As we are talking about money laundering here, my question concerns fundamental basics in combating money laundering. The question, for my part, is that, as we know, money laundering is a prerequisite and a constituent feature of the so-called pre-crime. Without it, it is not possible, in principle, to talk about it in the sense of the Penal Code. There are two options for delimiting the circle of pre-crime offences, either the creation of a list of pre-crime offences or the creation of a sub-crime approach. Which way is Estonia to choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U65	Thank you, Honourable Asker. We have chosen and are choosing a path that will help to mitigate the risks of services where we can see that the provision of a virtual value service can theoretically be used either for money laundering or for terrorist financing. The way we handle these risks accurately has been explained in the draft, and the explanatory memorandum has long been explained. So the authorities that have been put in place to carry out this inspection must have control. It is very difficult to carry out this control effectively at present. So that is why we are introducing additional requirements into the law and we want to implement them. I am now sorry that, in answering your question, I will also take this opportunity to continue my reply to the previous questioner. The year 2020 does not yet have to be audited and, of course, not all need to have a so-called full audit. Suffice it to say, in certain cases, a review, which is easier to check by an auditor, is sufficient. And 2022, i.e. this year, when Parliament adopts this law and the law enters into force, is the first one to be audited. Not in 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U66	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U67	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, Virtual currency service providers are planning to regulate these activities in a multi-stage manner, as I understand what you have said. Here, in particular, there are additional requirements or specific requirements that highlight their Estonian links and regulate accounting. But I realized that the bulk will then come with the new law, which is then this money laundering and then this, which is what it was now, with the single currency and other investment instruments and the virtual currency bill that is now coming. When's it coming? And what else is there to add? Can you give me some of that information?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U68	Thank you for your question. This current bill is such a quick risk mitigation bill, what's in front of you right now. The law on currency exchange and other investment instruments and virtual currencies, known as the Acronym, provides comprehensive regulation, including supervision under the Financial Supervision Authority. But these draft laws and regulations themselves are bound by their content. It's not like we're going to do a quick solution now, and then we're going to start completely from scratch. In this sense, there is also the principle of a new comprehensive law with which I hope to come before you, we hope that in the first half of this year there will be a bill in the government, and after that it will be possible to come before Parliament to defend it. It still follows from its content the same principle as the draft law that is still before you by adding these different requirements in order to make the provision of virtual currency services more transparent, more control-efficient. The same principle is followed by the so-called large law that is currently in the coordination circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U69	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U70	Minister, thank you very much. We have indeed opened new mines, or crypto mines, alongside the mines in Ida-Viru. The mining works are carried out in Eesti Energia, Defence Forces institutions, apartment buildings and do not know where else. The question is: what is going to happen in this market? I don't know how competent these assessments are, but the Crypto Money Alliance and the others appreciate that it's a strong blow to them and the whole thing pulls together. I am neither for nor against them, because I do not know enough about the field. Your assessment, or also the price of your employees and the value of your money laundering bureau, will this market start to dry up quickly and move to other countries, or will this race continue here? What really is the future of this market after the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U71	Thank you. The future of the market is such that, firstly, those who use services that are users of the service, users of the service of providers of virtual currency services, will be more confident in the future that, if it is an Estonian authorised service provider, it will meet the requirements that we impose by law. Their assets are also likely to be better protected. Perhaps the licence issued in Estonia should be such an essential quality sign that it is not the Wild West, where no requirement applies, but vice versa, service providers must be compliant and it must also be possible to verify these requirements by the issuer. The aim is to mitigate the risks we have identified now. That is the purpose of this bill. All those who meet the requirements that we impose on service providers are, of course, welcome to continue their activities. How many of these companies with licences currently issued want to continue to operate in real terms and how many of them are actually related to Estonia will become apparent after some time when the law has fully entered into force. However, the overall change in the market is still linked, as has been said, to the fact that those who act with honest goals, who are actually innovative, whose interest is to develop innovation, to provide innovative services, can also be more confident themselves that such a constant risk and risk, that not very sluggish, but let's say that previously not so strict companies with licenses issued in accordance with the requirements damage their reputation, so that these risks are grounded. So it gives greater certainty to the market itself, the market players and the users of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U73	Good manager! Good minister! What is it about Estonia that is not such a wild west of crypto-diggers? Reading this bill to the exponential rise, every third is a crook, and when you read that finite resources are what cannot be monitored. And what does Eesti Pank write? As a very harsh assessment, it is proposed that according to the results of the risk assessment, virtual currencies pose a high risk for Estonia in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing as well as in terms of financing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. And he proposes to raise the minimum capital by half. At this point, from 360,000 to 730000, apart from all this in the background. This is the proposal of Eesti Pank. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And what does the Ministry of Finance, what do you run, say? Forget it, don't count.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U74	Thank you. I guess there's a new habit of not following the question, but I'm trying to guess what the questioner wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U75	Well, you're an experienced politician.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U76	And that's exactly what you pointed out, that's the whole point of this law, that there are risks. These risks have been highlighted by the Ministry of Finance and the relevant authorities as a result of the national risk assessment carried out last year, and this entire draft is currently presented to you to mitigate these risks. There is a need to hedge, and there is a need to find ways to actually impose conditions on the granting of licences, how it would be possible to actually verify how the parties involved in the transactions, if they are service providers, would also be obliged to collect data and hedge risks. That's the whole point of this bill. Of course there are risks, otherwise we wouldn't be here today. That is why I am asking Parliament to adopt this draft as soon as possible so that the risks can be better mitigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U77	I have a request that the question time really is one minute. Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U78	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, I must admit that I do not have a question in this case either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U79	We have a round of questions, sorry, Mr. Storm. We're in the middle of a round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U80	I have a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U81	I don't, I don't have a home and running...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U82	Then I'll formulate the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U83	Very good! Let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U84	Thanks! But if there have been previously statements that the market might run dry or collapse somehow, if we are going to regulate and better control, on the contrary, I think we do not need the money that is not acceptable to such an environment. We still want investments here that are subject to such control and that are intended to be delivered in a controlled environment. But we've been looking for all kinds of Nokiai over the years, and my message here is that the Estonian state actually thinks about all these operations, that we can do very well through this to the state with a promotion, to invite large companies, new unicorns and everything else. This could once again be our Nokia. If you want to answer, you're welcome!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U85	Thank you. Nokia may not even be a good example anymore. But innovation is definitely welcome in Estonia. And this main problem, after all, still in this sector, which we are proposing to you by the government, is not so much in Estonia's own businesses. Rather, the problem is that innovative, very good and good companies, entrepreneurs and companies operating in Estonia are unfairly bearing the risk to those who have taken a licence in Estonia, but who have no connection with Estonia and who carry out a licence in Estonia somewhere else and who are not subject to supervision. If, on the other hand, their involvement in activities not with the purest intentions were to become apparent, this reputational risk and this problem, which also extends to Estonian companies in relation to their activities, is this problem. And that is why, indeed, the granting of the same licence will continue to be necessary and it is our wish that licences will still be issued to companies that have a link with Estonia in this area and for whom supervision can actually be carried out if necessary. And it really helps, as the questioner pointed out, to increase credibility, the credibility of the whole sector. And in setting regulation in this form, there are certainly those who are watching very closely how Estonia succeeds and whether it succeeds because they too are experiencing similar problems or are experiencing similar problems. And if there is one country that can review its legal space in such a way that the rules are in place, I fully agree with you that this is certainly something that will help our economic environment and economic space as a whole will help to increase credibility. And trustworthiness for a small country is certainly a very important indicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U86	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U87	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you, it is clear that this bill is completely unthinkable and hastened. I think panic is a very bad strategy when drafting such an important law. If, for example, we take the most central place in this draft, which concerns the percentage of supervisory fees, and you say that, well, I don't know, maybe between the first and second readings, we change this number, then it's not professional. Why does it have a central role in the bill? This is because this percentage and how it is determined essentially depends on whether the whole sector will go to Estonia. And if so, you are totally directly blocking innovation with this bill, and you are blocking the free market. But that's what I'm asking. Now, if the Money Laundering Data Bureau is going to manage the huge amounts that are going to be collected under the surveillance fee label, where are they going to take this ability to operate on such large sums? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And how exactly do they manage it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U88	Thank you. Strengthening the FIU has been one of the priorities over the past year. The fact that there is a very capable new head in the Money Laundering Data Bureau, who took office in the half of last year and who has been able to significantly strengthen the professionalism of this institution in a very short time, is something that I think Parliament, too, should actually be proud of. The ability of the Money Laundering Data Bureau will certainly become even stronger in time. I appreciate your concern, but I assure you that this is really a priority. And as far as supervisory fees are concerned, it is certainly not possible to say that supervisory fees are the central issue of this draft or in any way the central solution. The specific parallel taken into account in the submission of this proposal or on which it is based shall be the parallel of the paying agencies. These rates have come from there. So I absolutely do not agree that this is a hasty draft. The risk analysis has been prepared in the first half of last year and, following the analysis, this draft has been drawn up in a very thorough manner to mitigate the risks that have come directly out of the analysis, a number of expert assessments have been taken into account in its preparation, which does not mean, as has been said, that, if there is a need to write one or the other side more accurately in this draft, or if there is a proposal on how to implement it more effectively, to mitigate risks more effectively, these proposals must, of course, be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U89	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is probably no secret that Estonia is seriously involved here in the problems of money laundering and terrorism, and it is probably already known to you that there are many similar features of both money laundering and terrorist financing. Perhaps then, as I asked you earlier, the pre-criminal crime of money laundering is often committed in one country and concealment is done in another country. The same is true of terrorism, where terrorists raise money from different countries and the crime, bombardment, is committed in a third country. My question is, given who our partners might have been on the blacklist as countries that had a connection to money laundering and terrorism?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U91	Maybe, I don't know, are the questions incomplete? [[Kalle Grünthal will explain.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U92	I can't have a debate like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U93	What is involved in the investigation or what exactly? [[Kalle Grünthal will specify the floor.]] Okay, if you're asking about specific crimes...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U94	Okay. Minister, there is an opportunity to respond or not. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U95	I understand that the questioner asks about specific crimes and which countries they relate to. This is certainly something that if you call in investigative bodies or call, for example, the Money Laundering Data Bureau, either in a committee or in a political group, they will certainly share the data, not necessarily in a room like this one. But I believe that I would also be happy to share the risk analysis and share the information they have with Members. So that's definitely what I suggest you ask. In fact, like your first question, this is also a criminal law issue. And the draft that we are currently dealing with deals with prevention and prevention. The draft that we have submitted to you is not directly related to criminal law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U96	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U97	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, In this bill, I caught my eye on a point that doesn't sound like much of a Nokia title now, or obviously doesn't get an innovation star. We are talking about submitting the annual report to the Financial Intelligence Unit. And here it is, and so it is actually referred to in the explanatory memorandum that, in any case, even if they have already been submitted to the Commercial Register, they must be re-submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit, even though the data bureau is able to obtain them from the Commercial Register itself. What is the point of such a completely unreasonable logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U98	Thank you. That if the FIU has a justified need to ask for additional information and also to ask for a report, it can do so. However, the requirement to re-submit an annual report to the FIU. You should refer to a specific paragraph, I should be able to comment on it in this form. As a general rule, there is no need to re-submit an annual report to the FIU.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U99	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U100	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps this crypto money and virtual currency is a messy thing, and the more I appreciate our colleagues' efforts at 1.24 to create clarity and your willingness to respond. I'll take it from where Mr. Ernits left off. Perhaps he pointed out that Eesti Pank had very strongly expressed the risks of crypto money and proposed to increase the minimum capital requirement for providers of virtual currency to 730000. And at the same time, the Ministry found that it doesn't have to be $350,000. Can you redefine your position or your position as to why it did not find support, the position of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U101	Thank you. In the course of this draft, during the drafting process, we have consulted and asked for feedback from a wide range of parties. And just as in the same table that you quote, if you go along it, it turns out that there are proposals with exactly the opposite content, not by Eesti Pank, but by other parties involved. And when making an ex-draft, all these arguments had to be considered, and the result has indeed been that it was not possible to enter it in the bill in the amount quite as proposed by Eesti Pank. And I am not going to read everyone here, which is also highlighted in this feedback table by other parties, but it is certainly possible for Members to get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U102	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U103	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I still don't understand this virtual money or that way. Well, according to my information, it's just some kind of password that you own some kind of thing, isn't it? But my question would be simple. Is it possible for Estonian people to deposit virtual money today? And how the citizen says, for example, that I'm gonna save some IT guru who's just going to lose on ice, go through the ice, and he's gonna tell me that Kruusmäe, I'm gonna carry you a bitcoin. Where am I going? I will go to the bank, say please, I would like to get Estonian money or euros for it. How does this happen? I think it's just a password. The criminals have agreed that this password is going to cost so much right now. But how can I become the owner of bitcoin now in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U104	Yes, you will be the owner of bitcoin when you acquire bitcoin, but the virtual currency itself is basically a digital value. And this one is transferable. If you ask him if he can be deposited, if it can be deposited, then yes, he can. This is the virtual currency wallet service that you can use if you own virtual currencies. And the content of this service or, let's say, the provision of this service, the provision of wallet services, will first create an encrypted key for a particular client or, if you call it a password, you can call it that. And the same wallet service, or storage service, holds this unique encrypted key that can be used by the client for the purpose of storing or transferring the same virtual currency.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U105	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U106	Thank you! Well, I'd recall if Hong Kong ran off some four years ago by hackers on a platform with an insane amount of bitcoins. If I go now and say, you know, I had bitcoin, but I don't have insurance for me, well, I'll make sure I have three bitcoins in that currency, right? And then I don't have it anymore, because this platform's just run off, how can I get my own investments when I've invested in this bitcoin, here could all happen to slippery, I could fall head on the ground and say I'm the owner of bitcoin. How can I prove that it's lost income, or is it covered by insurance? I have a feeling that it will only be dealt with by a small, narrow group, and we in this House must discuss this very grand problem of how this digital key or password is being handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U107	Thank you. The number of people it concerns is no longer so small. This interest in virtual currencies has grown very rapidly and has grown very rapidly in the number of people who, for one reason or another, have decided to invest or acquire virtual currencies. And, of course, if you asked before how and if it can be deposited, it is precisely the same virtual currency provider whose activities are regulated by the law before you that needs this virtual currency exchange provider who would exchange for virtual currency money. If you ask how you can exchange this virtual currency into currency, then yes, it is part of the services that are offered. How can you prove that you have ever had a corresponding virtual currency, then yes, you must have that proof. Whether there are transactions with this service provider, for example, you must have the opportunity to prove, for example, that you have paid this particular virtual currency provider or that you have a customer agreement. This is also an opportunity to prove it. But I have a duty to say that this particular draft, which we are currently discussing, actually falls outside its scope, which you are asking for. My colleague Jüri Jaanson asked about the next draft, including the big new regulation coming before Parliament, then this major draft really also offers a broad picture that will give a more precise answer to all these issues that you have already touched on. And then I think we can discuss it more closely if we need to. But, of course, one of your colleagues, also a fellow group member, asked earlier about auditing and whether and why this is necessary, namely to increase their credibility or to improve prudential requirements, it is certainly also necessary to audit the accounts and raise prudential requirements so that the client you may be has, whom to turn to, and the client has to know who is responsible. And it would also be known how, in a situation like the one you describe, the interests of the client will be protected by the interests of the investor. This is possible, I agree with you that for many, everything is still a very new world, and certainly, therefore, the rules that will help to increase credibility need to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U108	Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I really must tell you that there are no more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U109	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U110	Thank you. It was a very enjoyable debate. Let's move on and I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, and today it really is an opportunity for the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in person. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U111	Thank you, Mr President, for this excellent opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, As such a very thorough and educational presentation came from the Minister, I think I may not be opening up the content of the draft. That 507 SE aims to regulate risks in the field of virtual currencies. At the same time, do so in such a way that this area remains in Estonia. And this draft was held twice at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 and 25 January this year. A presentation of the draft by the Minister of Finance took place at the first meeting, and Matis Mäeker, Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit, and Markko Kard, Deputy Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit, took part in his team. And the debate was quite thorough. And we agreed at the next session that we would ask for the opinion of the market participants. And then we went into more detail with the debate. This second hearing took place on 25 January. And indeed, we got a series of questions that obviously need to be clarified between two readings. That there was already a supervisory fee among these issues, which is about one and a half times higher than in the case of banks in Estonia. One concern was that the draft imposes an obligation to identify both the payee and the sender in two transactions, not just one which may be technically quite complex. Then the problem was the limit on raising money for two years. A company that is active in this area will not be able to involve investors if necessary when this draft is adopted. Then there was the topic of state fees and a whole series of other questions on the table. However, at its first meeting, the Commission sent the draft to its first reading. And here he is. I was appointed rapporteur. The deadline for tabling amendments is 10 working days and the amendments must be tabled on 9 February. And there will probably be consultations during this period, and the result will be clear before the second reading. And in short, that's it. I would be happy to answer your questions, but they have probably already been submitted to the Minister. So have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U112	Good waitress, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Everyone here really has the opportunity to ask two questions. Please. Any questions? It is. But there are only two questions you can ask here, you have, Mr. Half-Amets, the third already, so you cannot give. Due to the Home and Working Procedures Act, cannot be granted. Then that's it. Good waitress, thank you! There were no more questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I will open negotiations and speeches from the place, a representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Disappeared? Anti-Semimets, I looked, he existed, now he doesn't. Okay. Consequently, I will close the negotiations, if there are no speeches, then I will close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline of 9 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. That concludes the first reading of the 507 SE and brings the 11th item to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U113	We are moving forward to the 12th item, which is the first reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (510 SE). And I am pleased to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U114	Okay, sorry, I got the mask off. Good morning. The amendment of the Social Welfare Act and, in fact, the amendment of the Child Protection Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the Family Act. There are over 70 changes in this draft and, in conclusion, all of them contribute to reducing red tape, improving legal clarity and faster access to aid. The needs for change, as well as the solutions, have emerged from practice and have been discussed in a wide range of working groups, analysed in a number of memoranda, studies and also included in audits and reports, including in the Conclusions of the Convention on People with Disabilities. In two cases, this is a change resulting from the Supreme Court judgment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] On the subject of long-term care, the Ministry of Social Affairs has submitted four different memoranda to the Government of the Republic, and the draft amendment package includes, among other things, amendments to the first stage, which are a prerequisite for subsequent changes in the field of long-term care. Let it be said immediately that there are financial resources available for implementing the draft, and we will not ask for additional resources with this draft. The funds are in both the budgets of the Social Insurance Board and Tehnika. All ministries have, of course, been involved in the process of inclusion and coordination of the draft, but partners of great importance to us, such as the Advisory Board of the Estonian Leaders of Social Institutions, the Association of Special Welfare Providers, the Chamber of Disabled People and so on. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities is always an important partner in the field of social welfare, although it did not share the same opinion with the Ministry during this coordination process with all the changes, but all the precise explanations are also available in the coordination table as an annex to this draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also explained to the Cities and Municipalities Association that the impact on local government was assessed in the sections of the draft, which are activities that have been specified in view of the current role of local government. In fact, in the sections of the draft, where the local authorities specified their responsibilities, an additional financial measure to support local authorities, which is not directly planned from the state budget but from the European Social Funds, is intended to provide local authorities with 1 million starting from 1 April, i.e. the date of entry into force, in order to prepare for the assessment of the needs of customers and better organisation of the provision of assistance, including further training for social workers, as well as the development of tools. And now for the changes in this bill. First, the so-called first stage of changes to the long-term care system. In the Commission, we also had more talk about the next steps planned by the Ministry and the Government this year. But with this bill, we're going to change the family law. While children, as well as grandchildren, have so far had maintenance obligations for their parents, this bill exempts secondary relatives from maintenance obligations. Simply put, a granddaughter is not obliged to pay for the care of a grandparent. And, as you can understand, there is much talk here about general care, where we know that nearly 80% of the cost of general care is borne by the client, his family and among them children and grandchildren. If you ask how many grandchildren there are today who cover maintenance obligations, the honest answer is that we do not actually have statistics on this, as general care is a service organised by the local government. However, I can give an example of the city of Tartu, where the part-financing of the city of Tartu has 300 general care clients and in these 300 cases only two grandchildren have been required to support themselves. This change makes sense, both because of family relations and because of the financial burden on grandchildren, but actually also serves the interests of the local government, because the regulation so far has put local government in a position where they have to make unnecessary efforts, bureaucracy to find out where the grandson is, where his grandson is, what his financial means are to support his grandparent and then demand it. Although helping people in need is also the responsibility of the local government today, the draft also specifies the task of the local government to identify the need for support for persons with a care load. If the need for assistance is identified, provision must be made for appropriate assistance, be it a person with maintenance needs or a maintenance load. This means that the periphery carers are also a clear target group here, for which the local authority must identify and then provide additional support. The earlier the informal carer has been supported, the more likely it will be to continue or begin to participate in the labour market. A caregiver's mental health problems and a drop in need will be prevented, as it is not rare that the caregiver himself proves to be in need. A person in need of care must be able to live in his or her own home for as long as possible. It is also a fine-tuned principle that we regulate, or actually specify, with amendments to the Welfare Act. The interest of all of us is that a person can age with dignity and that an institutional institution, including a general welfare institution, is indeed the last solution. Studies also show us that people's own preference is overwhelmingly to live at home when they need help and receive the necessary home services, whether they are involved in handling domestic activities or in personal care. The amendment also complements the principles of providing social welfare assistance and support with the principle that this home-style environment must also be provided for institutional care. And for the first time, we also regulate the concept of long-term care in law. The following amendments now concern this proactive approach. If we have built our welfare system in general since 1995 on the principle that the person in need must turn to the local government for help and apply for it, we have now directed more the local government to act proactively, or to turn to the people themselves, to find out their need for help. And this is not a new principle in law, but a more precise principle. Local authorities will be given the right to receive an overview of children living in their own region who have been asked for the degree of disability, not only for children who have been given the degree of disability, but also for those who have been asked for it, because we expect that there may be a need for help there. And in order to prevent the detection of disability severity, it is wise and reasonable and appropriate to help these children in the past through local government services and other assistance. But also adults who have been identified as disabled. And here's the point again: once a person has been identified as disabled, he doesn't have to turn to the local government himself, but he does a proactive first step to provide help by the local government, introducing to the person or his/her loved ones what the possibilities of receiving help in a particular local government are. Thus, the local government will have an overview of potential needers, children and adults, as well as older people, and it will be easier to plan the social services of the local government, both in the palette that is needed in this area and in the volume of services. In particular, it is also an instrument for the local government in budgetary planning. By creating an exchange of information between the state and local government, we try to identify the need for assistance for each child and family and adult as early as possible, so that the services provided can also be of a preventive nature. And, as we all understand, preventive services help to delay the difficult need for care, and this is easier for both the person and, in fact, for the local government and society at large. We also bring laws into line with case law. The list of documents to be submitted to the local government when applying for income support is amended. The list is supplemented in the light of the judgment of the Supreme Court, in which the Supreme Court has come to the conclusion that reducing the burden of debt in enforcement proceedings is not considered as a net income of the person, since the sums withheld in enforcement proceedings cannot be covered by the person in order to satisfy his or her primary needs. The second amendment to the Supreme Court's judgment concerns the determination of the severity of the disability and, if necessary, the principle has been specifically introduced here, that if a person cannot cope independently with the treatments and he/she needs the assistance to do so, so that the degree of disability should also be identified. The state has provided local authorities with resources to help children with severe and deep disabilities through the Support Fund every year. This has also led to the attitude of the local government to assist children who have already been disabled and who have, in particular, severe or deep disability. Of course, there is a desire for the services to reach children earlier, and therefore we will replace the criterion of a child with a child with a high need for help, regardless of whether the child needs help or not, and the scope of this assistance is large, it is possible to provide this state-funded resource from the support fund for the provision of services to the child and his family. The draft also sets a criterion for a social worker. If we already have a requirement for higher education for child protection workers, then the other social workers in the local government have not had such a requirement so far. In the future, a social worker must have a higher education degree that is a professional, or have acquired a professional certificate for a social worker. This is critical because the quality of social work and the skills of workers are, in fact, the things that help people, and a very large part of social work is precisely direct communication, knowledge, competence and skills. I am pleased to say that the Ministry of Social Affairs will also be able to support, once again, the training of social workers in the region of Ida-Virumaa, which will be the beginning of this month. And cut red tape and unnecessary business. People are exempted from providing data that are available in national databases when applying for income support. For example, you can use the land register here. We will also make it easier to identify the degree of disability in old-age and old-age people who are in an unchangeable or progressive state, enabling the degree of disability to be detected for a longer period than five years. So far, only children, now also old-age age, have had such an opportunity. I would stop here and be ready to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U115	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U116	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I've been interested in this disunity for a long time. The so-called distant south is the country of the disabled. County Põlvamaa, 22% from 18 to the end are disabled, while Võrumaa is also on 20 and Jõgevamaa 20. But Läänemaa 9, Saaremaa on 10 and so on. Where does the difference come from? People like you could live anywhere, but if every five people in Põlva County are disabled and in Hiiumaa or in Lääne County are 9%, where is the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U117	Thank you very much for this question. I can add here the latest data that I can bring out of my head, which equally concerns the southern local authorities. Over 40% of old-age pensions are those who have been given some degree of disability. Of course, this raises questions and, of course, makes us think about regional inequality, which is certainly one reason, but probably not the only one. It is believed that, as far as we have been able to analyse, there is greater unemployment in these regions, lower incomes, in the general population there is a greater proportion of those who live in different social benefits or also in social security measures, be it unemployment benefit, be it some other benefits paid by both the state and the local government in the welfare system. And it is true that we must balance this regional or regional inequality with very different measures. It is not just social welfare, because care and social protection will indeed come to the aid of this shortage, unemployment or old age, but creating these preconditions for people to cope better is a task in many other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U118	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! I very much agree that a number of important things will be resolved when this bill is being dealt with. And drawing attention, which came from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, would certainly need an analysis before proceeding with the second reading to see if these problems are all covered. However, my question concerns the dates of entry into force. The law has been introduced into force on 1 May 2022, 1 September 2022, 1 January 2023 and 1 February 2023. So what exactly happens on these dates? And do I get it right that the fact that the granddaughter will not be obliged to pay for parental care will come into effect after the adoption of the law by the President when it is announced and published in the Official Journal of the State? I actually knew that answer, but since a lot of people have called and asked to explain and to keep the verbatim, I just expect the Minister to confirm or respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U120	The majority of the changes will enter into force in the normal way, as Mrs Helmen Kütt said, from the announcement by the President and publication in the Official Journal of the State. But then there are the differences that are within the specific paragraphs. The provisions relating to this cycle of the state budget, such as the provision of the Fund, are one that can enter into force from January. Similarly, these are provisions which require the local government to prepare itself. There is also some additional time left for these provisions. But then, indeed, § 1 of this Act, which mostly concerns changes in social welfare, has been brought into force on 1 May this year. And then from § 2, which is the Child Welfare Act, two points have been added to September 1st of this year. But, as I have said, this law will indeed enter into force in the normal way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U121	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U122	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You indicated that grandchildren no longer have to support grandparents. Does the obligation of grandparents to look after grandchildren change in any way with this bill? And the question is, if grandkids no longer have to support their grandparents themselves and support them in a nursing home, then who does this obligation go to? Someone still has to pay for this service. Is and in what form will this take place in the future? In the case of Tartu, you gave an example of two people who paid. And I understand that this is not a need-based understanding, but it is going to apply over the field. It cannot be said with certainty that everyone would really want it, that some people would like to continue to support their grandparents, but now the state is assuming this responsibility. And how reasonable is that? Because it has been said in the past that there is no point in making overall grants in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U123	Thank you very much for the right question. First of all, I must say that the state is not committing itself to this bill. These obligations continue to be divided between the local government and the maintenance person when the customer himself has a shortage of resources. The local government is the organiser of general care and since the Social Welfare Act was adopted in 1995. Now what has just happened in society is an unreasonable burden on people. While we are talking about a community of rural municipalities and cities, we have a consensus with the community of rural municipalities and cities that their desire, and that means that they represent all local governments in Estonia, has been that the burden of finding out about the children's children, and then also their financial capacity, will be taken away from local governments to demand them as well. Now, what is very important to really understand is that maintenance obligations and then care obligations per family member are two different things. When we talk about a maintenance obligation in terms of family law, in terms of private law, it is something that is enshrined in the family law and that speaks literally of a financial obligation to support someone. This is exactly the same responsibility as parents have for a child. When we are now talking about this due diligence obligation, which is also provided for by the family law, we are actually talking about this attitude, attitude and voluntary contribution. On the contrary, we are convinced that this voluntary contribution can be greater without the pressure of the commitment. If we also look at the practice of other countries, where grandchildren have no such responsibility, we actually see that these human relationships, caring for one another, the easiest thing, visiting nursing homes too, these relationships have improved considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U124	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, From here, to look at the draft explanatory memorandum, the Cities and Municipalities Association has been quite concerned about this draft. I understand that this analysis is still being carried out and the financial burden is being attempted between two readings. However, they note that the necessary resources should be provided for local authorities to carry out the new tasks entrusted to them by the State. Have I understood correctly that the state also covers 100% of these new tasks, or is it here again that we have given some kind of money and then we want the municipality to cover all areas from additional road maintenance and social welfare? Or what about these possible instruments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U126	Thank you very much for your question. I am extremely grateful to the local authorities for the work they do in the social field and also for the part they put in their budget for social welfare. Nevertheless, I am quite concerned about the major trends, because if we bring a parallel between education and the social sphere, the average Estonian local government has 60% of its budget for education and less than 10% for the social sector. Only for larger cities is it more than 10%, a few percentage points. And if we also consider that yes, the sum of the sum has increased the social spending of local governments, they have not increased in percentage terms. And this is a worrying trend, given the growing needs of people, and then the growing number of older people, but also people with special needs, in society. Why I dare say this in this way is that what has grown, in the same amount, is the resources that go to the income base. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that the Social Welfare Act, which was already mentioned today, adopted in 1995, which, in essence, applies to the present day, already divided the functions between the state and the local government. And when we talk about long-term care and people's initial need for help, these functions have been in the local government since 1995. The changes we have made to this law are of a specific nature that does not change the essence of the matter, that it is the responsibility of the local government to care for the elderly and actually to support children and families. During this time, the state has been insanely increasing its spending when we think, for example, about our parental benefits or even about our family benefits scheme, because it is one of the most generous in the world. Similarly, in the meantime, we have had support measures that we did not have in 1995, when we are talking, for example, about unemployment insurance in this form, unemployment benefit in this form. Further examples can be found. However, there is a presumption that the local authority will be complying with the obligations already in force since 1995 and that it will also be better performing them on a day-to-day basis. Let us even think about what is the code of ethics for social workers, which actually says the same, that it is the task of a social worker to educate himself on a daily basis, to ask himself critical questions and to try to develop this social work constantly according to local circumstances. So I also agree that local authorities have concerns. But these concerns are absolutely always the case when we have specified the tasks of local government, but we have always managed to overcome these concerns together, and, as I said earlier, in order to better perform the tasks we have specified, we will go from April to a million euros to support local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U127	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U128	Good manager! Good minister! I am glad to hear, of course, that you will be supporting local authorities with some EUR 10 million. In general, it's a nice bill, but you said it was old people talking to the trees. In fact, it's since the age of 18 and this percentage is smaller, I looked again at Põlva and Võru and they're at 9%. One in ten people who are still alive is disabled. In Hiiumaa, two or three and so on. Where's the difference? Or maybe there's some sort of tree-fixing thing that if there's a bad life, those who have the chance to determine a disability, well, get a little bit of a tip and let's say there's a disability. Or is this a real picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U129	Thank you for your question. If we now look at the population in proportion to the number of children with disabilities, the region of Ida-Virumaa is actually the most critical one. And when I am talking about children in this context, I am talking about young people up to 16 years old, because from the age of 16, young people are considered to be a group with adults in the light of the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons. If you point out in your question whether the determination of the severity of disability is always transparent, there is certainly room for improvement. In an ideal world, I wouldn't consider it necessary to identify the degree of disability in this form at all, because no person needs this sign that I have a disability. However, there are people who have been identified as disabled today, but there are many more people who need help. This need for assistance may be temporary, it may be long-term. In any case, it is our interest as a society to identify and provide this assistance at the right moment. So if we move forward from here with the next developments, I would be happy if either I or the following social protection ministers could bring such drafts before the Riigikogu, where we would give up the determination of the severity of the disability and can provide help to people centrally based on IT systems and on the needs of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U130	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You are probably aware that the Chancellor of Justice has already turned to the Social Affairs Committee, first in 2016, but also to the Ministry, and now he has turned to the Social Affairs Committee and the cost of providing the service to support everyday life is a concern. At the time it was discussed, Maarja Krais-Leosk replied by the Ministry of Social Affairs that the Ministry was planning to review the whole special care system, the design process is currently underway and the draft for the entire special care system is scheduled to be drawn up in 2018. This has not happened to date. I have the question whether you will be prepared within 10 days, which is the time for amendments, together with the Social Affairs Committee, to prepare this concern, which is also referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, in fact people who are very concerned that action may end unless this amount of expenditure is identified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U132	Thank you very much for the painful question, but for the very right one. We have also met recently with specialists from the Chancellery of Justice to discuss this issue. But my honest answer is, in this ten days, we won't work it out. It is not that we are essentially unable to develop it, but, above all, because it is also a budgetary issue. If we are talking only about this involvement of local government in the financing, which is part of this issue, I am afraid that there is a need to negotiate with a representative local government organisation in order to extend this responsibility of local government. As regards the restructuring of special care, this ambition continues to exist in the Ministry and experts. But as I believe, Mrs. Helmen Hunter, you know very well, it is estimated that 45 million are missing from special care. Much of the special care we are financing from the European Social Fund, which periods are running out. In essence, the entire building base, which we have modernised, has also been modernised with European resources. The services that we currently provide in local governments to people who can cope with living in the community or living on a more independent basis have also been funded by the European Social Fund. In this chronic shortage of resources, we simply cannot come up with these changes here and now. But once again, the intention to develop this year was planned at the beginning of the summer and the draft, together with the long-term care component funding previously discussed with the Commission, and the social guarantees of the informal carers in October of this year. Then the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U133	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I didn't quite understand. You said that you do not know the costs of taking the subject of grandchildren, you say that you are supporting local governments with a million with this bill, there is a shortage of 40. That I remember, and you also pointed out on several occasions that the municipalities are very different, I remember, you were still a member of the Social Affairs Committee when we went to President Kaljulaid with the Social Affairs Committee, which also had a social field for all of Excel's local governments in terms of their contributions. And we know that this table is probably, I don't know, whether the President has it or not, likely to be so different that, in the meantime, the municipalities have been cut short that they haven't gotten richer from anywhere. I have a question. Did these discussions also give rise to the understanding that we could treat our citizens more equally, that it would also create areas of operation in relation to these services, I do not know whether four or so in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U135	Thank you. This table, to which you refer, is available in an up-to-date form on the website of the Ministry of Finance, so that you can actually see from there all the time what the contributions of local governments are in financial terms. Now let's not confuse two things. When I was talking about a million, I was talking about this administrative burden, which local authorities, through their representative organisations, raised the need for it, so to speak. There was a place where they believed there was an increase in responsibilities. And we have not had a dispute with the local authorities that releasing grandchildren from the maintenance obligation would be the place where they will have substantial extra costs. On the contrary, it is the expectation on the part of the local authorities that the grandchildren will be released because they have suffered an unreasonable administrative burden on the municipalities in order to deal with this 'obligation'. But now, with regard to this area-based approach, all the tasks that the state is carrying out, for all these tasks, we have tried to implement the area-based approach. In the field of child protection, we have it built on a region-by-region basis, with the services of the state being built on a region-by-region basis. The last region, for example, that receives the nursery, which is intended to help sexually abused children, is this year the western region or the western region. So far, they've missed that opportunity. But similarly on a regional basis, we also offer evidence-based programmes, such as multidimensional family therapy or other services. This part, which is organised by the local government, is indeed difficult to do at regional level, with the exception of the supervision and support of local governments, which we do in the same way through the regions of the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U136	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, A couple of facts like that. This year the state budget increased by 17%, say, the state's share, and by 9% for municipalities. Well, it kind of reflects that about one for two. And I am absolutely convinced that all municipalities, whether they are young or old, want the best for their people. All of them would be prepared, if they had money, to release the children from this care obligation and to cover all these costs, but unfortunately, these funds are simply scarce. And if this million is divided by the number of municipalities, on average, and also by the number of months, it brings EUR 1 000 per month, and it's not too much sense. But I ask what happened to the idea of general care, which in the meantime was in the air, that the state would come to help cover these costs and be divided between the three parties: the state, the municipality and the carers or their carers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U138	This is component-based financing, which is included in the package of social guarantees for inherent carers, where we are talking about social tax incentives and the provision of additional leave for informal carers. The biggest concern of this package is the state budget resource, as I said here earlier, the order of magnitude is 50 million. In order to implement this change, I will, of course, go to the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy in August. And in October, it is also planned to move the draft to the government. This, of course, requires positive results in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. But I will do as effective a job as I can to create this soil, because everyone really understands the need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U139	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! You read out here this very social worker's code of ethics. I have been involved in youth work, and I know that young people are up to the age of 27. 26 he is still young, and it is nice, of course, 16 years old I think he's already wearing his neck. But couldn't this age be harmonised in some way? It's very funny today that irrelevant things like choosing a local government or changing sex, that's 16, but buying non-alcoholic beer is 18 years. I've realized that those people who drink alcohol-free beer are perverts, but let's think that, in the case of unity, you should still be the lead where you define it. And how many times has it sounded like this age could be 15. Where then is the way that there was once this adolescent clinic and that to handle it, let's say, unambiguously, intelligibly, that there would be no differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U141	Thank you for your question. Of course, it may cause confusion, but if you look inside it in a little more detail, there are mostly very logical reasons. Above all, we consider a child under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be a person who has not reached the age of 18. It's like a normal measure where we try to offer a maximum of positive favorable things, treat anyone who hasn't gotten 18 yet, as a child, because it's always more positive and more opportunities-creating. The differences come from an enormous number of laws. In particular, they are private law laws. When we talk about this classic child's age, there is also a nuance of private law, even though it is such a public approach to offering these benefits and benefits. But this nuance of private law is due to capacity, isn't it, as we understand? At the same time, we also know that this capacity will grow somewhat in a child's age, and that will be explained to us by the General Law on Civil Law. When we think about different restrictions, for example, about alcohol and tobacco products, they are all about protecting the child and protecting the environment in which the child is present. For example, there are restrictions on children's institutions in the sense of both alcohol and tobacco laws. Now, criminal liability age, sexual self-determination age, marriage age, labour law are different ages, right? There are many examples, but each example has its own clear logic. While we were previously able to get married with the consent of a 16-year-old parent, it was at one point that, as a result of changes in private law, marriage was possible at the age of 15 with the permission of the court. Now we're about to change it again and raise that age limit. The same is true of the age of sexual self-determination, where, in my understanding, in Parliament, all political parties are consensually in agreement that it must be brought down to protect children. Once again, for everything, we can give these examples, there is a very logical reason. After all, we want children to learn to work so that they can have work habits and experience. So we have brought under the age limit, of course, also put in a certain protection: several hours, which kind of work that we agree to. But I think that these different age limits are reasonable and important, and if we get back to the beginning now, the definition of youth work and youth comes from the same way, right, from international law, where we want to offer something more to people of this age by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U142	Thank you, good minister. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U143	Yeah, I'd like to make it clear that I started doing regular work when I was 12, pushed the snow in the winter, Grandma just had a hard time doing it. And I don't think he was a slaver or a child laborer. It was ours. But now that we're taking all these conventions, it is. I would like to mention at this point that young people and anyone who wants to be youthful come to political parties, there can be young in political parties until they are at least 35 years old, but youth work when they say 27 that they have a mother who is seventeen years old, who pushes a baby cart and tells her a child is not very appropriate. But I don't think that's what a youth worker or a social worker does, perhaps we have a sense of knowledge. Once upon a time, there were such terms as a missile, a thug, which would mean that perhaps we would give a name to each age section and complement that law. But I still think that from where it's young and from where it already has the right to decide quite a lot of things itself. Can we not harmonise this space?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U144	Thank you. It seems to me that this discussion has already become such a theoretical or even philosophical one. I'd like to bring in another dimension here. If we think of age as such, then the middle age, the older age, has shifted forward, and we could talk about becoming a mature person in this younger age group, not by becoming an adult, but perhaps by psychological maturation, which is assessed in psychology at the moment when a young person is released from his family and then enters into independent life in practical terms, right? At the same time, we know that these family models and trends do not always, and necessarily do not, always show this, even in Europe as a whole, especially in southern Europe, in order for this independence to happen more quickly, rather more slowly. In fact, there are a lot of issues to discuss here, but it is important, in terms of legal space, to agree on something, and I believe that what has been agreed today is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U145	Now the members of the Riigikogu have run out of questions. Thank you! But we also have the Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, who will be telling us what happened in the committee. Fast, efficient, and intelligent. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Minister, thank you very much. And the transmission monitors! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the drafting of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws for the first reading at its meeting on Monday 17 January. And just like today in this Chamber, Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo gave a very thorough overview and answered the questions. I will address the issues which have not been dealt with very little or at all in this Chamber, so that the debate that we have been talking about is also known. It is true that a letter sent by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities was already part of this hall and I myself pointed out that they have not coordinated the draft and have made a number of observations. Well, for example, that the concept of long-term care needs to be clarified. I asked whether it was planned to meet the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, because these issues are quite serious, because it is the municipalities who will have to comply with it when they get the bill into law. The Minister replied that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities played a role in the coordination circle as an opinion holder, not as a coordinator. Well, it doesn't matter if he's an opinion holder or a coordinator, if he's brought out the problems, it makes sense to discuss them. That is what the Minister said, however, that continuous meetings are planned with the Cities and Municipalities Association. Marika Tuus-Laul asked whether imposing an obligation on the municipalities to assess the need for aid could lead to a situation where the municipality did not recognise the need for aid. He also wanted to know if it was ever planned to discuss the removal of the maintenance obligations of grandchildren from grandparents. The Minister replied that the State would identify the degree of disability and that the local government could assess the need for home services and other additional services. It also explained that when a person needs additional home services, the local government can plan and provide them. And this is also the responsibility of local governments today, but the bill also establishes an exchange of information between the state and local government, which will help local governments to identify potential needers. As regards the obligation of grandparents to provide for a child, yes, that the obligation of grandparents to provide for a child concerns minor children, and it also explained that grandparents do not have a maintenance obligation like a parent. In fact, according to the Family Law, a grandparents have a replacement obligation. That is what the Minister has already explained here today. Kert Kingo asked for clarification regarding the determination of the disability, the Minister explained that the amendment to the law is not general and does not apply to the identification of all the trees, that the amendment provides for the possibility of determining the disability for a lifetime for certain diagnoses and permanent conditions and that therefore it is not necessary for a person to apply for disability every five years. Kadri Mets, adviser to the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who participated in the discussion of this draft together with the Minister, further explained that the specific change concerns people of old age and those who have an unchangeable or progressive permanent status, where there is reason to believe that the condition will not change and therefore the severity of the disability will not change. As an example, people with Alzheimer's diagnosis were brought. Kert Kingo also asked to clarify how the severity of the disability is for people who lack a limb, for example. The Minister replied that the unchanged progressive permanent condition for the determination of disability is a condition which significantly impedes the daily life of a person. The Minister also explained that each situation must be assessed individually, because there are people who can replace the limb with prosthetic or without the need for additional assistance in the future, then there are those who need assistance but also those who do not need it. Therefore, in such situations, it is not reasonable to do automatic tree identification within the framework of the law. Now, the Commission did not ask the Minister any more questions. Siret Kotka proposed to appoint Tiiu Aro to represent the lead committee here today. Kert Kingo has proposed to appoint a speaker here, or mine, Helmen Küti, as the representative of the commission. Tiiu Aro gave up his candidacy. And therefore, the other members of the Commission agreed to the proposal to appoint a speaker here, or Helmen Kütt, as the representative of the commission. The chairman of the committee also explained that the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, if no one wants a different deadline. And this proposal was supported by the Commission. Finally, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 January. This date has already become 27, appoint Helmen Kütt as the representative of the commission, the speaker here, and propose that the first reading be completed. All these proposals were consensual. With this, I could now conclude my draft report, the Commission's report. But in order to conclude the Commission's report, I would just like to add that the government celebrated its annual power, and I am now the first rapporteur on the part of the Commission as a member of the Commission for the year. I would very much like to thank Kert Kingo and Tiiu Aro, who gave up their candidacy because if she had not given up, we would have had a vote that would have been embarrassing. I think it is great that opposition ambassadors and coalition ambassadors report on the committee. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U147	Yeah, still with one voice, one tongue. Unfortunately, there are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U148	Very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U149	You don't have to be sad. The Minister must have done his job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U150	Yeah, or a waitress from the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U151	Yes, or the Commission's presentation was so clear that everyone understood. But now the story is that the political groups can take the floor. I don't see that wish. I'm closing the negotiations. Still! Would you like to take the floor? Here you go! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Helmen Kütt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U152	Good fellows! It's not like when he gets on stage, he sings and doesn't come off. I actually want to touch on a very important subject. That is, just as I asked the question. I very much acknowledge that such a draft has been brought to the Riigikogu by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but I very much hope that the issue of the cost of providing the service of supporting everyday life and bringing it again by the Chancellor of Justice to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, as I said at the beginning, was that for the first time on 14 December 2016 the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu was addressed with the same concern as the service of supporting the daily life of a person as one of the special welfare services in the Social Welfare Act. Since it has appeared that access to the service may be hindered by § 89 of the Social Welfare Act, which regulates the financing of the service in a way that does not cover the necessary costs, this is a problem. At that meeting of our Social Affairs Committee, which I had the honour of chairing and which took place on 17 January 2017, the Ministry of Social Affairs replied by Maarja Krais-Leosk that the Ministry was planning to review the entire special care system. The design process is currently underway and a draft for the entire special care system will be developed in 2018, from which this problem can also be resolved. And indeed, the members of the Social Affairs Committee agreed with the Ministry's position to review this problem as a whole during the ongoing process of reorganising special care. Now, this year, on 19 January, the Chancellor of Justice has again turned to the Committee on Social Affairs and has very seriously approached the Committee on Social Affairs with concern, where it also indicates that in 2016 he has already turned and in 2017 the Ministry of Social Affairs promised to deal with it, but unfortunately it did not. And now asks the Chancellor of Justice to become a person who is concerned that if the city does not cover the costs of providing the service to support everyday life, the service provider may cease to exist and people will remain without the necessary help. The question is how much of these costs must be borne by the local authority and what will be the recipient's own contribution. I understand that this issue needs to be negotiated with local authorities. But if 2018 was already to be a service design and had to have all the special care discussions on the table, then it would have been assumed that in 2022 these things were already in the past, not what had to be started. I very much hope that, as the Minister said, this will be dealt with, negotiated with the local authorities and will then also come to the discussion of the national budget strategy, or even to the amendments to the draft law as an amendment to the Committee on Social Affairs and, in fact, it will only be very, very much hoped, and I really agree with the colleagues who are here from the local government and have said that the municipalities are doing everything they can to help their people, but it is not always enough, because the funds are scarce. I very much hope that here this problem, which has also been addressed to the Chancellor of Justice, will not be left without the necessary service and worse, without home. So we look forward to better developments than the promises of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U153	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 510. That concludes our first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 February, not 9 p.m., at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U154	And unnoticed, we have reached today's last item on the agenda. The Social Protection Minister welcomes us here, who will present us with the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, which bears the number 512. Please, Signe Riisalo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Last item on the agenda, the law amending the Family Benefits Act and other laws. Other laws that are amended are the Employment Contracts Act and the Social Tax Act in its course. The main objective of the draft and the majority of it is, in fact, the possibility of paying maintenance support to children who have been declared bankrupt in relation to the parent liable for maintenance. The aim is to reduce the poverty of parents raising children on their own and to ensure that they are better able to cope financially. If we think about how many children we have today who receive maintenance support, then the beneficiaries of maintenance support during court proceedings, the target group is 517 children, the beneficiaries of maintenance support during the enforcement procedure 5482. In the first case, the cost was EUR 152000, in the second case EUR 4,7 million. Now the additional target group, the ongoing maintenance aid for bankruptcy, is estimated to be 40 children. There were 18 children in 2017, 21 in 2018 and 30 in 2019. We have estimated and predicted 40 children of this size, which means an additional cost of EUR 50000. However, given that the entire budget of the Family Benefits Act is insanely large, this cost does not really require additional state budget applications. With the same bill, we will also improve the conditions for parental benefits and leave in the event of the child's stillbirth and in a situation where the child dies within 70 days of birth. Understandably, the extremely traumatic situation for the family, and the family also needs to be sentenced to a period of mourning and to be able to cope calmly with this grief. Not to mention, in the case of a woman who gave birth to a child, a mother, it is also important to restore her health. Another change made in the interests of equal treatment for parents is the year of birth of the child as the basis for calculating the upper limit of the parental benefit of one calendar month. Previously, this was based on the year in which the right to parental benefit arose, but here, for the sake of equal treatment of parents, this is the year of birth of the child, which is clearly the date that is unchanged. Now, the process of applying for parental leave, which is clearly and unambiguously laid down for applicants for parental leave and their employers, actually also provides for an electronic self-service environment where it is easy for parents to submit their applications for leave. The Social Insurance Institution already communicates with the employer accordingly. Other laws related to the Family Benefits Act and parental benefit. We equate a husband with a registered partner, these other laws, as mentioned earlier, are the Social Tax Act and the Employment Contracts Act. We will also clarify in the Social Tax Act by bringing some of the provisions from the level of the regulation to the level of the law, with the aim of being in line with good legislative practice, that we do not create new law at the level of the regulation, and that has also been the wish of the Chancellor of Justice. There are some technical improvements in this bill, but in the big picture we are talking about three things. Most important, the payment of a living or maintenance allowance for children where the parent who is obliged to support has been declared bankrupt; in the case of a stillborn child; and then issues relating to social tax. The rest is basically more technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U156	And the members of the Riigikogu want to be more specific. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You certainly gave an overview of this draft, which is important and which is not. But what I think is essentially and ideologically the most important point is that we are changing in law what concerns adoption and possibly adoption in same-sex families, which is then equalising the spouse and the partner. Since I did not see in the coalition agreement that these changes were, has the coalition decided to adopt implementing legislation on the partnership law, or are they being sneaked within the framework of different laws, just like this one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U158	Thank you. We are not actually changing adoption by this law, because adoption is governed by the law of the family, and we are not currently changing the law of the family. However, what we are changing is in the context of parental leave and benefits. The fact that adopters are subject to parental leave, as well as guardians in the family, to carers. And as far as the right to adopt partners is concerned, there is no connection to this draft either. If you ask us to create some new law, I assure you that in 2018 the Riigikogu passed a bill, it is a perfectly valid law, the provisions of which will enter into force on 1 April of this year, where in fact, in the regulation of parental benefit, the spouses are also treated as partners. Touches, then, Articles 33, 36 and 37 of the current law available today in the Official Journal of the State. What we are doing with this draft is harmonising terminology. Because when we think about what the purpose of the amendment to the Family Benefits Act is, the purpose of this law is to support the raising of children. Of course, there is another objective: to support families with children. And in my opinion, it is not possible to question whether, regardless of the type of family, they are spouses or partners in a partnership. They raise children and they make a family, in any case, it's a family for children. Maybe some statistics. The Cohabitation Act entered into force in 2016 and, over the years, these partnership agreements have been signed in 2016, 43 in 2016, 23, 20, 19, 31 in the following years and a little more in the previous year: 61. We don't have statistics, notaries don't do statistics, how many of these partnership agreements are between the same sexes and how many different genders. However, if some of those partners who may be both special and same-sex are children they are raising together, then I sincerely believe that the child does not have to suffer and that the national guarantees provided for in the Family Benefits Act should also be available to these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U159	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking you about bankruptcy proceedings. Maybe you'll open up a little bit about how serious this is. True, it is stated here in the explanatory memorandum that the amount is EUR 50000 per year. I was looking to see if there was any number of pieces of how this EUR 50,000 was received. How much is it estimated to be the number of bankruptcy proceedings where the maintenance payments are made? How did you get that $50,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U161	The amount of maintenance aid is the same for all, with a maintenance allowance of EUR 100 per month. Now, if the parent pays some part of the sum, out of this EUR 100, the State will compensate for the difference. And that's what we get from the fact that we know how much we pay on average, 100 euros, and then when the parent participates, a little less than that. Forty children have been estimated and that is where the budget expenditure has actually been created.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U162	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U163	Thank you. I also asked the Commission whether or when it would be possible to expect drafts now, in addition to the ideological changes and the equalisation that this draft essentially involves, so that we could deal with the issue of birth or birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U164	Depends on what you mean by the issue of the birth rate or the birth rate. But, as you know, at the beginning of this government, even before going on summer leave, the Riigikogu's bill was being dealt with, where we made some relief for those parents who had lost their jobs during the COVID to improve the financial situation of their families. If you mean the kind of drafts where we encourage child numbers, these decisions have already been made by the Riigikogu. And we've got pretty much a lot of child-rich family benefits. The concern for me is to encourage the birth of another child, but given today's very high costs, we will not be coming to the Riigikogu with these proposals in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U165	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! Let's harmonise terms and terms. The year became in this government, and Estonia was proud to have so many female ministers. Now, today, at the music awards at this gala, a rapper said that we're all artists, we're not a male artist, we're a female artist. When will the government, even in this regard, treat ministers as ministers rather than with this gender profile? It may cause quite a lot of confusion, but I understand that it doesn't cause many. But in every situation, things are being tested somewhere, how they function in society, and an understanding even on animals. Let's say that animals are not gender. Is this harmonisation going somewhere? Rather, you said that you would harmonise. Where are we going with this harmonisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U167	I have to admit, unfortunately, that your question remained a little dim for me, but when we insist on the word 'unification', by harmonisation, I still meant harmonisation of terminology. In the law that is already in force, we will then have a registered partner with the same status as the spouse, in accordance with paragraphs 33, 36 and 37 of the Family Benefits Act. And we harmonise the law so that family benefits, parental benefits, maintenance, child benefits are also available in cases where the choices of parents may not be uniform for the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U168	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Children should be encouraged, children should be supported, and children should be encouraged. And here's my question: we extend or harmonise registered partnerships, but what about unregistered families? Should their children be left out, or should they not be harmonised? Perhaps you could also open up the view of what to do with their families and their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U170	If you read the text of the law carefully, the circle of persons who are actually entitled is wider. Very rightly, your party partner paid attention to adopters; there must be a sideline of carers who are factually educators, guardians. This circle of persons is already wider than the one who actually deals with the child. When you talk about different family models or think about them, two options have been created. One is governed by the Family Act and the other by the Cohabitation Act. In both cases, according to the current law, but also with the additions to the bill, children are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U171	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U172	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On the previous agenda item or at the night point you said that there is no need to harmonise, there are simply different laws and everyone has everything very precisely, and now there is another. It's all actually coming from the same ministry. I really don't understand what this selective choice is, but let it be. The Ministry of Social Affairs, I understand that he has a lot of information about people. One could say, like metadata, we have also given social workers the right to supplement them here. But the question is, what is it, you say no, here we haven't done any research. Who makes a selective decision that we collect data about, that we have some statistics, and that we don't, or is some thing just taboo issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U173	Thank you. First of all, the first half that, when we were talking about the age of a child before, we talked well about the different contexts, areas of life and, in fact, the legal categories, criminal law, labour law, family law, a very wide spectrum. Today, we are talking about a uniform right in a similar or similar situation, and this situation is a child raised by adult people and a child's right to state aid and support. As regards statistics, I am unfortunately indebted to the answer, because the House of Notaries supervises registered partnerships. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice would be the right place to ask. I've been trying to get that information, and I haven't been able to.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U174	Good minister! No further questions. Thank you! By the Social Affairs Committee, Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U175	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Committee on Social Affairs gathered to discuss this draft on Monday, 17 January, where the Minister gave an overview of the draft in the same form as today, we looked at the presentation and the amendments that this draft brings with it. And as the Minister said, there really are many changes in different nuances. The most important of these, he mentioned here, regarding the payment of maintenance support to parents or children whose parents are bankrupt, or in this process, the parents of stillborn children will be helped to survive this difficult time. And the important nuance that we discussed at length in the Commission was indeed the equalisation of spouses in the context of a registered partner. And then my colleagues had some questions. For example, on the Luck Hill, the question was whether technical solutions to keep records of parental leave had been completed, and how could a parent see how many days he could still get leave? The Minister replied that the solutions were not yet ready, but that the self-service environment for users would be ready by the time of the proposed changes. Then there was the question of what I had of myself, whether and how this bill contributes to the increase in birth rate. The Minister replied that in April the changes to the parental leave and benefits system were decided to be adopted as early as the autumn of 2018, the payment of maintenance assistance to a child whose parent is in bankruptcy proceedings is the creation of equality, noted that although these changes do not contribute to the problems, the draft solves problems with unequal treatment and child maintenance, where one parent is temporarily unable to do so financially. The change concerning stillborns will in turn help a small target group that is in extremely vulnerable situations and has asked for assistance from the state. In addition, the draft will provide clarity and accuracy for both operators and applicants. Then my good colleague, Kert Kingo, had a question about the subject of who is meant by his partner. We learned from the Minister that this is a legal term regulated in Estonia's legal space, a partner who is considered to be a partner registered under the Cohabitation Act. At that time, a good colleague wanted to know who was meant by all the adopters of the minor child's new family, which the Minister's slides had written. And we got the answer that there are two types of adoptions: family and child relocation to a new family. In the first case, if the parent's spouse adopts a child who is already living with the family, the corresponding leave and benefit are not granted. This is a formal issue and there will be no family settlement or relocation. In the second case, if the child has been in a replacement home and is relocated to his or her new family, there is a need for a period of residence for which leave and compensation are offered. The same rules apply to same-sex couples and registered partnerships. This provision is still based on the nature of adoption, not on whether it is a marriage or a registered partnership. The chairman asked whether the inclusion of the term "registered partner" in the draft law was related to the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act and their adoption. The Minister replied that if the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act were adopted, the need to state it separately in the Law would disappear. However, changes need to be made from time to time in order not to discriminate against people in parenthood and to bring the law into line with case law. Then there was the question of whether the concepts and provisions of the Cohabitation Act with several drafts had already been included in various other laws in the Government of the Republic that they wanted to know which laws would be amended by this bill. The Minister replied that the draft concerns parental benefit, which in turn is linked to several other laws, including the Tax Administration Act. Therefore, any changes to other laws relate only to parental benefit. Kert Kingo asked for a list of all the laws to be amended. And then, as usual, the chairman of the committee explained, in the light of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, that amendments are expected within 10 working days. A vote was held in the Commission on whether the Commission would support the completion of the first reading by the Commission. It had seven people: Tiiu Aro, Hele Everaus, Siret Kotka, Helmen Kütt, Luck Pillak, Marika Tuus-Laul and Viktor Vassilyev. And the suspension of the first reading was supported by me and Kert Kingo. This is an overview of what took place in the Commission with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U176	Looks like it was thorough. No questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Mr. Onion, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U177	I am not going to take a long time because this issue has been discussed and spoken, and as the Minister said, we do not see the need now, especially in the context of this draft, where a number of important issues are resolved, there is no point in putting in place issues that have not even been negotiated in the coalition. Perhaps the coalition agreement did not say anywhere that the implementation provisions of the Cohabitation Act would be dealt with, and as I have communicated with people in corridors and offices, they came to some unexpectedly and surprisingly. So I think that if anyone wants to continue to deal with these issues, it would be wise to bring here a separate draft, but not in the way it has been the case lately, to put Brezhnev's packages with reasonable things and then the question remains whether or not to support them. Those which are ideological issues would deal with them separately from technical issues. And that is why the Isamaa Group has a suggestion that we do not deal with these points relating to the implementation of the Cohabitation Act here, and it makes no sense in this regard to proceed with this draft. We propose that this draft be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U178	Thank you! I don't see any more calls. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading, but the Isamaa Group has a different proposal, and we must vote through this proposal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case that the Group of the Fatherland has proposed to reject at first reading the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws (512 SE). [[Laughing.]] You know how good it is to have this conversation with you here, the hall is quiet. But I will now put this proposal to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U179	The rejection proposal was supported by 5 delegates, against 33. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the commission is therefore valid, i.e. the first reading of the draft has been completed. I will now set a very significant deadline for the submission of amendments. 5.15 p.m., not February 9th, but February 10th. And as sad as it may seem, we've run out of points. I must wish you a beautiful, safe way home and a beautiful dream. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 with your happy faces. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! The professor always has the exact details: in six hours and 51 minutes, we'll be waiting for you all back here. Have a good night. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U180	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, good colleagues, honourable members of the Government of the Republic, good questioners! We will begin the Question Time of the Riigikogu on 26 January and first we will carry out a verification of the presence. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U181	18 members of the Riigikogu registered, 83 are missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Defence Kalle Laanet, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. As usual, two minutes to ask questions, three minutes to answer. We've been asked 13 questions. So, therefore, I ask you to have a good agreement, good colleagues, that we do one additional plus one additional question for each question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U182	Let's get started. The first question, put by Sven Sester, a member of the Riigikogu, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, on the subject of the corona crisis. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Prime Minister! It is now a year since you received the Prime Minister's responsibility on your shoulders, and much has happened in this year on the corona issues, unfortunately nothing to be delighted about. Hence my observations and question. Over time, there have been different objectives that you have set, mainly on the vaccination side, and one of the highest targets was 70% of those vaccinated last autumn. Now we're in a situation, we're already at the end of January, and if I'm not mistaken, I think there's 64% vaccinated today. Perhaps we have not actually achieved this objective; the National Audit Office has paid attention to this in the past. My question to you is this: do you have any plan at this point to raise this level of vaccination, because, once again, I stress that this plan, which was previously, has not worked? Or are you saying that this plan has failed, that we shouldn't pay attention to it anymore, should we start taking other steps? What's the plan? How can we increase the level of vaccination at this point, especially in view of our immediate neighbours, where we are talking about 70%, as much as 80% of those who are vaccinated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U184	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U185	Thank you. This vaccination plan is for the Ministry of Social Affairs, and it's still in force. We keep an eye on the plan. But the truth is that we do not have a compulsory vaccination, we do not have a compulsory vaccination as in some countries where people who have not been vaccinated are fined. At the same time, your own partymates say that vaccination is of no use at all and make such calls. This, of course, will not contribute to increasing vaccination. It is true that vaccination will help to prevent serious illness and, as a result, many countries with high levels of vaccination with high levels of effectiveness will also have the opportunity to emerge from this crisis. At the moment, our focus is also on efficiency dosages. We are in the middle of a three-pronged campaign because really, people with an effective dose are 25 times less likely to go to hospital, have this disease seriously. Of course, lectures by lecturers, doctors, where you can also vaccinate yourself will continue. Vaccinators are invited to the workplaces. All these tools that can be used to increase vaccination, we use them. But, unfortunately, like all other countries, Estonia has stayed where we have actually been foretold. The people's willingness to vaccinate themselves is where they are, and if we don't make vaccination compulsory, if we don't fine people for not being vaccinated, then we don't have a lot of tools to lure people into vaccination, nobody does. I also say that, at this point, the government has no intention of forcing people or of making vaccination compulsory. Interviews or motivational interviews are on the phone, counseling is on the phone. For example, the 19,000 calls made on the telephone line of a family doctor were a small part, in my opinion 77 calls, of purely vaccination counseling. Unfortunately, everyone else was asking for a referral for COVID testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U186	Additional question, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I do not think that the Nordic countries are totalitarian countries, I rather mentioned the Nordic countries as an example, their percentages are much, much higher than ours, and hardly that they have given some coercive responsibility there and said that if you do not vaccinate, some coercive measures will come to you. Classically, as we do, I assume that a person now vaccinated, if he has a COVID passport, can get in to certain facilities, catering facilities, etc., and if you haven't, you won't be able to get away with it right now. I don't think there's any special method of compulsion. But my second question is mainly linked to the same situation where we have to say that vaccination and vaccination passports have not served the purpose we have expected. And now the next question is: what is the subject of rapid tests for you in the future? How do you see it? Your partner has said that we should bring back the fast-test test, I mean your political partner in the government. What's your position? The Scientific Council has said that they will not see it in the near future, at least yesterday's news was that. What is your current plan as Prime Minister, how do you see it? In my view, in the case of rapid tests, it will certainly provide adequate information on the test carried out on that day, whether a person is sick or not, which is certainly even more adequate information than the existence of a korona pass, and on the other hand, I fully agree with Paavo Nõges, for example, who states that if you take the rapid test, you will also lose the greater need to vaccinate yourself in the future, because you will also be able to get into one institution or another with alternative measures. What is your opinion and vision of this introduction of rapid tests? Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U188	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U189	Thank you. First of all, about the level of vaccination. Unfortunately, we would like to be a Nordic, but we are not a Nordic. We are in the same place as other Eastern European countries in their attitude to vaccination in terms of the genderisation of vaccination. In the Nordic countries, the vaccination of older people is annual and they simply have a much higher acceptance. When we take studies, for example in Ireland, where the level of vaccination is also high, with a high degree of consent to vaccination, it was checked that those who were not vaccinated were not vaccinated. And it turns out that these are the Eastern European communities that are in Ireland, and the longer they lived in Ireland, the more they behaved like the Irish. There's nothing to do. Or we will take the United States, where there are different states, where the level of vaccination is very different from political preferences, because the roots of why vaccination is high or low are much deeper and do not change them in six months. Now to your question. We had a COVID office on Tuesday, where one task for the scientific council was the question of whether quick tests should be allowed. The Scientific Advisory Board carried out a very thorough analysis and presented very detailed arguments. Their recommendation, supported by the Health Board, was that rapid tests cannot be brought back now. The main reasons are this. It is clear that we are in the tsunami of infection and, unfortunately, we are on the rise, weekly, daily, the infection is rising, and it is not in decline. We haven't reached that peak yet. And in hospitals, we still have unvaccinated people, over 80% of the people who are in the hospital and seriously ill are unvaccinated people. Maybe the beam test still doesn't protect anyone from infection, and the beam test shows whether you're carrying the virus or not, but sick, seriously ill people may just become unvaccinated. Like the previous government, this government wants to rely on science and scientific data and make its decisions accordingly. So, in fact, my personal position is to listen to scientists here and to take these steps gradually once we are in the cooling phase and getting to the top of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U190	And now for an additional question, Henn Põllamas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You're using semantic confusion, claiming we don't have a forced vaccination. If a person is still told, a specific date and the date by which he or she must be vaccinated will be given, otherwise he or she will be fired, is a compulsory vaccination. We've seen it in the Defence Forces, we've seen it in the PBA, many other places. To claim it's not coercive is rather impertinent. But actually, I also wanted to talk about these rapid tests, which have been said here by several people in the Health Board, so that we can easily pass on to what very many other countries are going to pass on to, because, quite clearly, these very thorough tests do not make any sense at all with this kind of infection. And the corona pass has lost all meaning. I think we can each list at least a dozen people who have been infected after an effective dose. In fact, the only way out is precisely the rapid tests we can take at all events, concerts, wherever we can prove that we are healthy and there is no risk of infecting each other. At the same time, the government wants to spend nearly half a million euros on vaccine propaganda. Couldn't you still be dealing with such normal things and bringing us out of the constraints that are also on our economies and people? The rest of the world is moving in that direction, why are we wasting money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U192	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U193	Thank you. First of all, if we had a forced vaccination, as you say, Sven Sester wouldn't have a question because we had 100% of the people vaccinated. Since we do not have a compulsory vaccination, the level of vaccination is low because it is voluntary and people can decide whether or not to vaccinate. That's one. Second, infection versus disease. Yeah, this micronth strain is spreading 2.5 times faster than the previous strains. Which means he's gonna break through the vaccine defense. But what do scientists say? They say that it still protects you from serious illness and protects you from being hospitalized. We still have over 80% of unvaccinated people at the hospital. Unfortunately, in addition to this micron strain, we have a delta strain that is very difficult. Somewhere over 18%, if I remember correctly, from genotyping it's been a delta strain that's heavier. And once again, this test won't protect anyone from infection. The vaccine still protects against serious illness, that's what all scientists say. According to Krista Fischer's models, it is clear that 25 times less likely that a person who is vaccinated at three doses will have this disease so severe that you will be hospitalized. That's the main reason. In fact, perhaps I would also quote your own party chairman or former chairman, who, while in the government, said that if the media tells us that there is a removal and relaxation elsewhere, please take into account that these restrictions have been more severe in many countries, many times and many times. You seem to have changed that position. The restrictions currently in force are much less restrictive than they were when you were in the government. You can quote the same from all the government players as you were in the government. All of you have admitted that we must make these decisions on the basis of scientists' opinions, based on science and a science-based approach. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. The Scientific Advisory Board carried out a very thorough analysis and explained why it is not justified to return the rapid tests at the moment. It is precisely for this reason that unvaccinated people get into hospital badly, and that is what we must avoid in order to increase the burden in hospitals. Unfortunately, in hospitals, there is an increase in load. In addition, the streets are very slippery, which means that people are also hospitalized with trauma. In addition, there is a virus season, where other diseases actually lead people to the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U194	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U195	Let us move on to the second question. It will be presented by Henn Põlluaas, the defence minister Kalle Laanet answers. The subject is the Defence League. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U196	Thank you. During the war, the Defence League has been given military land defence tasks, or territorial defence tasks, and this requires training and proper equipment. There is no other way to confront enemy units and armored equipment that have broken through or reached the rear with a landing. It turns out, however, that when service guns were unreasonably collected from the officers of the Defence League a few years ago, they have now gone much, much further. The tables of the territorial defence units approved by the Defence Forces have removed machine guns and anti-tank grenades or anti-tank launchers, anti-tank grenade launchers, sorry. Do you understand, good minister, what that means? In essence, it means disarming militias and destroying their battle capabilities. Without anti-tank weapons, it will not be possible to confront armoured technology and attacking enemy infantry without machine guns. Landguards are being deprived of their ability to perform their duties. And this is done today in a situation where, in the long term, it is not excluded that Russia will attack the Baltic States after Ukraine. I would say that this is a direct violation of Estonia's defence and security. How do you justify this step? What else was left out of what the Defence League considered necessary for the performance of its tasks, and are you checking what the Commander of the Defence Forces, Herem, is doing in the first place, or is the damage to the military capabilities of the Defence Union an initiative of your own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U197	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U198	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, good questioner! Unfortunately, the claims you have made are not firm. Because if, as an example, in 2022, the militias, or the Defence League, are equipped with 130 different vehicles, 250 new Carl-Gustav grenade launchers will be separated from the armaments to the tune of EUR 5 million, 709 new bullet and tactical vests. In addition, the land defense will begin the transition to new handguns called Rahe 20, which is planned for more than 8500 machine guns. U.S. military assistance is planned for defense of 265 night vision devices. Not to mention the ammunition that is also being acquired for the additional distinctions decided by the government last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U199	And now for the additional question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U200	Thank you. These equipment elements that you read out, at least as far as I know, will go to the green combat units who, along with the Defence Forces, will carry out the defense in territorial defense. This general carpet, which is supposed to protect Estonia, receives nothing and is taken away from it instead and without any justification. And I hope you share my understanding that the Defence Union has an indispensable role to play in defence, and for years there has been an agreement that the Defence Union will have 7% of the defence budget at its disposal. Can you be more specific? I've received a signal that this percentage is going down according to the plans. Looks like it's gonna rise, but it's gonna be that loan to build a new building in the Defence League. Real money, in short, reaches different activities and equipment and so on that it will decrease by about 0.2%. To what extent is this budget planned? What else are the challenges with this budget? And is it true that when this funding agreement was signed so far, it was always made between the Defence League and the Ministry of Defence, but now, for some reason, as a third party, they want to bring in the defence force? For what purpose? Does this in any way increase the ability of the defence forces to intervene in the Defence Union budget, to participate in it, or to make such a change possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U201	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U202	Thank you for that question. I absolutely agree with you that the role of the Defence League in Estonian national defence is invaluable and extremely important. The National Budget 2022 will provide the Defence League with EUR 45,5 million for its operating costs. I stress the operating costs. Plus all the weapons needed for the fighting, the ammo comes all but this. So the rumors that the activities of the Defence League are somehow being restricted or reduced are not true. Secondly, yes, we are in the process of concluding so-called performance agreements with all sub-offices within the Ministry of Defence and with areas within the Ministry. In order to be clear to all parties, it is understandable to what objectives the Minister of Defence, along with the Ministry of Defence's management, expects from the various structural units. In order to later be able to say whether these objectives have been achieved and how they will be assessed. This is extremely important for clarity. If we are talking now about what you also asked for, why the Defence Forces are also involved in the discussions of the agreement with the Defence League, it is because during the war, the Defence League is moving from its subordinate relationship to that of the Commander of the Defence Forces. There can't be exactly two separate parallel leadership structures where there's one in peacetime who's doing what's agreed and another in wartime. In order to be just as clear as it should be again. As far as the whole peacetime activities in the Defence League are concerned, it also follows the plans that have been discussed and written together with the Defence Forces and the Defence League. It's not like somebody in the corner of the office is looking at the ceiling and saying that we need one thing or another at this point, or we need the ability in the sense of whether we use automatics or something else in the Defence League. This is still happening in synergy and cooperation for a common goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U203	And now one more question. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! In the current security situation, perhaps it should be seen that this whole concept of green and yellow units should be reviewed, as should yellow units. Clearly, they can't have everything green. But don't be a fool, check over this information from the National Defence League on how these yellow units, machine guns and anti-tank weapons are. You should just look at it. Which is positive, of course, is that now that there are two kilometres of radii of anti-tank flares, the Defence League will also get a certain part of them, and this is a whole new level compared to the old cannons. That is something to be commended for. But since the development plan must be improved anyway, if this 380 million allocation is probably not the last one in the next few years, have you thought about how to strengthen the map capacity of the Defence League? They only have mortars now with a range of six kilometers. What can be done about protection of land? Similarly, in the present situation, there should be some kind of a few-man cores at the headquarters of the militia who do planning work there on a daily basis, because if the defence allies do this purely as a military task, they simply cannot do anything else. I have a request for you to look at and check these questions. I don't expect an answer right now, but it's just what's with these yellow structure machine guns and anti-tank grenade launchers, and what do we do with these power developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U205	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U206	Thank you for your comments. I absolutely agree that the tasks of peacetime cannot be viewed separately from the tasks of wartime; they must coincide. You do the same thing in peacetime, and you do the same thing in times of crisis. As far as all these abilities, withdrawals, or transfers are concerned, I'm sure I'm looking right at them. But I dare say today that both the Chief of the Defence League and the Commander of the Defence Forces are certainly strong enough to be wartime specialists. As a politician and as a minister, I can look at it, but I can hardly say specifically whether one thing is only right or not. But I promise I'll look over there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U207	That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U208	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is the cause of unequal treatment in the reimbursement of energy costs. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U209	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We have repeatedly debated the topic "Energy Crisis" in this Riigikogu in recent weeks. And one of my proposals, which I have made to you, has been to consider a possible solution brought here by the Socialists, following the example of Norway. You have basically opposed this in these discussions and I accept this, the world-view attitude you have expressed, that there is no need to help those who do not need help. Although this measure, which you have proposed, as a targeted measure by the government, is one big piece of shit, we have all recognised more and more in society here. And in this context, I think that universal support, like the Norwegian measure, would be much more effective, less offensive and would help many more people, and really also need help from those who are below the limit you set there. But in this context, what I am interested in is that really your dispute with the coalition partner, in the final part of this, I heard that your coalition partner began to speak more and more about the very principle of the Norwegian measure or what we proposed as the North Star. I was hopeful, and then when it came, I didn't believe my eyes. Because that North Star of ours had become a North frog or a squirrel, or I don't know what to call it. In other words, a discriminatory support measure for the majority of Estonian people in an undisputed interesting way. Indeed, in terms of gas heating, you have come up with the idea that we have proposed. But in the case of electricity heating, you did as little as possible, so you are basically supporting these people eight times less than those people who are heating with gas, or who are heating with electricity, are essentially not getting any help. And to the people who are heated by district heating, you say that we are not going to help you at all. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What is the reason for this discrimination and unequal treatment, can you explain to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U210	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U211	Thank you. It's hard to satisfy your wishes. First of all, we have done both general measures for all people and targeted measures. The overall measures have been a 50% reduction in network charges for all, a 100% reduction in gas network charges, as well as for all. Then we have targeted measures to help more families who need it, i.e. families with less than median income, whose price increase in gas, electricity and central heating we will compensate 80%. In addition, we have also taken a measure that will help all consumers who consume less than 650 kilowatt-hours of electricity, and that is the majority of consumers, because about 82 to 83% of electricity consumers consume less than 650 kilowatt-hours per month, and in this case the price cap is 120 euros per megawatt-hour or 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, which everything that goes over is reimbursed by the State. And that applies to everyone. It is also the same measure for gas consumers, so the price compensation is over 2.75 megawatts and 65 euros per megawatt-hour. The question of the district heating. Firstly, district heating goes down there, it goes under the targeted measure, and the rangers are also very different. If we look at them, some of the district heating companies who actually use wood chips, where this price has not increased significantly, and there are really regions where then the price of district heating has increased a lot, because there is gas as an input and this gas will then increase that price. So in this sense, the targeted measure concerns both electricity, gas and central heating and over-the-counter measures, as there are very different prices for district heating, the measures go over for electricity and gas because the price of gas has increased exceptionally high.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U212	Additional question... Sorry, procedural question, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Before my procedural question, I would like to recall a Turkish proverb: if the bull enters the palace, it will not become king, but the palace will become a table. Now let's get down to business. First of all, I would like to congratulate your party partner, Tanel Kiike, who came here yesterday to make a presentation in the very Chamber of the Riigikogu. Yesterday. When he went to the remote, he conscientiously took the mask off and put it in his pocket, contrary to the esteemed Kaja Kallas, who threw his mask both to the left and to the right on Monday and Tuesday. This same remote control was followed by other members of the Riigikogu to give a speech. I don't think it's very ethical or hygienic and much less an example of wearing a mask. Even now, Kaja Kallas has spread his mask on that table, contrary to Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet, who correctly hides it in his pocket. I know Kaja Kallas says he doesn't understand my mind, but maybe you can tell him not to spread his intimate, practically intimate hygiene equipment on tables and remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U214	Thank you. First of all, I think that when we talk about infection, we're doing everything we can to prevent that infection from spreading, and that's what's important. Whoever wishes wears a mask that doesn't want to, doesn't think it's necessary, doesn't wear it. So it's every person's own decision in this hall. A procedural question, Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U215	What I'm saying is that I think that Kalle Grünthal's proverb, which he recalled, is absolutely appropriate. But the fact that the procedural question is interfering with the substance of the topic in the Riigikogu Hall, you could try to explain to our colleague Kalle Grünthal that this is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U216	Thank you. I'm asking that we really use procedural questions when it's necessary. In saying all the proverbs, I call on us and I call on the members of the government to respect each other and respect each other in this Chamber. Let's move on, an additional question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U217	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! In an earlier response today, you said to start by saying that we would like to be a Nordic country, but we are not. Indeed, our government does not behave like the Nordics in shaping its own policies or in actually communicating with the Riigikogu. I ask you a question: please explain to me what is the justification for unequal treatment of people by type of heating? Can you explain to me and to the Estonian public why it is that the gas heater will be compensated from 6.5 cents per kilowatt hour and compensated for up to 2750 kilowatt hours, which is perfectly reasonable. Because it really helps people cope with this energy crisis, where gas prices are rising. But that's not what you do for people who heat electricity. And those who receive district heating, for example, as you even referred to, have a significant share of district heating on a gas-based basis, and they get exactly the same increase in the price of room heating. And this measure will not give them a penny. You can talk about any other measures, but within this measure, you are creating a great deal of injustice. After all, this is an unequal treatment of the type of heating. Please explain to me why the room space made of Russian gas is more worth compensating in your eyes than the electricity purchased from Nord Pool or the room space provided by the district heating solution. Why are there multiple gaps? Make it clear to me and the public, please. People don't understand why this is happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U218	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U219	Thank you. This question, too, illustrates that subsidies do not make anyone happy. Those who receive grants say that they receive little, and those who do not, say that others get it unfairly. In this sense, it is unfortunately a reality. I think that we must all strive to ensure that these subsidies are not really needed, but that people can manage without them. But really, these electric shocks, energy price shocks have hit everyone very hard, very unexpectedly, and that is why we have taken support measures. The reduction of the network fee for gas also affects those district heating that use gas. This should bring this price down and the more this gas is consumed, the higher the network charge. So, in fact, input prices for district heating, who use gas, are going to go down. And we're still working, unfortunately, we haven't worked it out yet, because there are different obstacles. We are also working on a measure to help companies cope with the price of this gas. And that should also concern the long-range hunters who, in turn, can lower this price for people. In the meantime, it is precisely those who are hit that targeted measure that will also help to compensate for district heating bills and price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U220	And now please ask for an additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U221	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Indeed, you have finally realized that subsidies do not make anyone happy, that is what we have been talking about all along, and the EEK has already offered three solutions since October, which would bring energy prices down to everyone and nobody would need to pay them. But when it comes to this unequal treatment of energy costs compensation, the government is currently doing subsidies, electricity and gas are on the list, and now there is also district heating at the request of the public and, if necessary, there. But one sector is out of that list. If we have gone down the road to paying these benefits, for example, housing associations will now receive heating support and will directly receive this support from consumers on the district heating network. But there are also landlords who heat their homes, not with electricity, not with gas, but with either wood or pellets, and their heating costs have increased by up to 40%. Because its heating, wood and, let's say, pellet producers are related to their high energy prices, it is perfectly understandable, isn't it, the prices of these products have also increased. How, then, could people who are not heated by electricity or gas and who are not in the district heating network be eligible for support because they are unable to join district heating because of their location? What are the solutions in the government for these people? Is that even meant to be? And how do we solve this inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U222	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U223	Thank you. Firstly, I do not agree with you that people do not need help at all right now. These increases in electricity prices and energy prices have hit everyone very hard, and that is why we have decided to help people. We have already had district heating support from 28 October, so then we did three things: we did a 50% reduction in the electricity grid fee, we did a 100% reduction in the gas grid fee, and we did a targeted measure for families with a lower median income, for whom we compensate 80% of the price increase on district heating, gas and electricity. Now, in addition, we have taken a measure for everyone to cut red tape, and really the following bills should come through it smaller, so that the price that goes over EUR 120 per megawatt-hour or 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, the state will reimburse and the bill will have a correspondingly lower amount if this consumption is up to 650 kilowatt-hours. And that's what we've all done. So I do not agree with you that there is no need to support people in these difficult times. You say you're in that position. Of course, we also need to see that we can develop measures both in the medium and long term, so that we do not need such support at all, that people can manage themselves and that prices are stable and affordable. This is what we are constantly working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U224	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U225	Let's move on to question four. It has been submitted by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. The subject is energy prices. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U226	Thank you. Dear Minister, I decided to ask a question this time precisely to you because I have not received answers to my questions in this Question Time from the Prime Minister, and I was also convinced of the Prime Minister's answers to Indrek Saare, where the question was not actually answered. I hope you can grab my questions and answer them. Today, the situation is that the press is as if satisfied, the government crisis was resolved, the parties agreed and forgotten, but the consumer was actually forgotten about this agreement. The coalition's parties agreed that yes, let us continue with this ineffective, bureaucratic support measure and also implement a measure that is not yet there today. My question is: when will this actually be the second measure you agreed, where there was a dispute and a fight for weeks? Will this regulation actually be adopted by the government, so that we know what's really going to be inside? This is the first part of my first question. The second is: does the Centre Party actually support a temporary reduction in VAT from 20% to 9% for electricity, heat and gas, which is your own initiative, which you have personally supported and taken to the office, which has been supported by your party's chairman, Jüri Ratas, and which has also been supported by European Commissioner for Energy, Kadri Simson, as a temporary solution? And the third part: why is 12 cents a kilowatt-hour of this indicative limit for electricity taken? We know that Norway has 7, France has 4,2, Latvia has less than 6. We don't know any other countries near that level. Is the standard of living in Estonia and the level of prosperity of people much higher than in other countries? Why this level? Those three questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U227	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U228	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you for your question or for your questions. First, when the Regulation was finally agreed on measures in yesterday's office. I very much hope that we can reach an agreement on the decision on the allocation of funds or that we will decide on it tomorrow. And from here on out, the plan is that January's bills that will be sent to the mailboxes in February, so that these bills will already be accounted for by these new subsidies. Yes, I admit that there is certainly a large part of this work that has to be done by network companies, energy sellers. I really hope they get their work done. Now, as far as VAT is concerned, indeed, the Centre Party has come up with this as a proposal, I too have come up with this as a proposal, unfortunately we have not reached an agreement in the coalition. And that is why this measure has not been implemented, but we have reached an agreement on the new measures relating to both electricity and gas compensation, as well as on the 100% compensation for network charges for companies. We have agreements on them and we can implement them. Now, 12 cents kilowatt-hour. Yeah, well, that's always the question, where's the limit, where are we gonna make up for something or where are we gonna make up for something? 12 cents a kilowatt hour is what's been agreed upon in the coalition. And that's what we're gonna have to do. There were certainly different options for consideration, but this is the number that was agreed upon.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U229	And now one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U230	Thank you. In the context of the second question, I would like to ask you a question. Maybe you understood the Indrek Island question better, and I have the same problem at heart. On the basis of this second, last night's agreed support scheme in the office, which we do not yet know exactly, but from your comments earlier we know that there are different treatments for gas and electricity-based heat consumers and that district heating has been left out at all. Why this is decided by you, maybe you can break it. I, too, have not been able to explain to people why this is so. But my own question sounds like that. The Prime Minister has said that a targeted focus should be on these measures and a precise target group to provide assistance to those who need it, not to those who do not need it. And that, for example, his retired parents don't need help. But now this other scheme is where it turns out that the retired parents of the Prime Minister are receiving help, but for example, a teacher or shopkeeper living in a district-fired apartment in Vändra settlement will not receive help and will not be eligible for assistance. Why, then, did it turn out to be so that the individual building in Viimsi municipality, heated with gas, would prove to be eligible without an application, but Vändra's gas-fired, district-fired housing company tenant would not prove to be in need? How did that work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U231	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U232	Thank you. First of all, this first half: gas compared to electricity. And actually, this other side of the question is kind of the same thing. I myself believe that these measures must be two-fold, both targeted measures and measures intended for everyone. The more people receive help from measures that are designed for everyone and are as simple as possible, the less are certainly those who have to turn to targeted measures to get help. So I am pleased that we have reached agreement on these general measures. This will certainly also reduce the burden on local authorities, which will have to deal with these targeted measures. But I think that targeted measures are also necessary. Are they bureaucratic? I tried to fill it online myself, just to realize how bureaucratic or how complicated it is. Honestly, there's nothing too complicated about it. In this respect, I agree that maybe the person who does not have so much contact with the computer needs some help there, but in fact, applying for this application, at least applying on the website of the city of Tallinn, is relatively simple, there is nothing complicated in itself. Now it's about gas-driving. It is true that I myself believe that the fact that we do not have such a specific measure for district heating today is a problem. I have asked for possible calculations to be made at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which some measure there could mean the cost of money we have to bear in mind. Because we cannot be sure at all how quickly this crisis will be over or where these prices can still move or reach. I think this kind of preventive activity is very important here. The question is simply that, in such a case, if a general measure is to be taken, it should be compensated for by district heating companies, i.e. that there is a question here about the state aid position, and on this side it must be considered in much more depth. Here, such a fast and inclusive measure, its implementation is not easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U233	And now for an additional question, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U234	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. There are a large number of sufferers in this energy crisis, perhaps spoken of less than private individuals. These are entrepreneurs: small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, family entrepreneurs in rural Estonia who, when planning their costs, have in no way been able to take into account the prices of such ragged electricity. How does the government plan to help them? Do you have any measures in place yet? Estonian entrepreneurs are really in a lot of trouble, and they are not responsible for this. Do you also have solutions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U235	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U236	Thank you. The measure taken by the undertakings is compensation for network charges. There is no doubt that it can be discussed whether this is sufficient or whether there should be more compensation. I agree that not only private individuals in distress but also businesses would like compensation to be higher. I also agree that entrepreneurs are definitely in trouble today. This measure, which we have been able to offer, is compensation for network charges. And, above all, I have said this repeatedly, that my recommendation to businesses in particular, but also to private individuals, is that it is reasonable to use fixed-price packages to prevent such sudden changes in the market. Yeah, it could be more expensive in the long run than just the stock market price. However, when making its business plan, it is still possible to rely on certain costs, and there will be no very significant cost distortions. So this is definitely a suitable solution for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U237	Thank you, that concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U238	Let us move on to question five. This is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject of cuts. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U239	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In answering the previous question, you unfortunately used a false claim that we do not want to help or support people. Listen, people are watching this broadcast, they saw and heard very well what I asked and how I asked. So just a suggestion: don't make a fool of yourself in public. But now to the question. This government looks like cuts. When the sun government ministers landed in their ministries a year ago, there began to be incessant austerity and cutbacks. Then the public began to hear about the conflicts of austerity, such as the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, the money of children's circles of interest, and much more. The Minister of Finance, Pentus-Rosimannus, kept multiplying mantra from a balanced budget. However, people, our daily services, coping, peripheral lands, symbol values, and even children were hit. But there is no wonder, the Reform Party has always cultivated so-called social Darwinism, according to which it is meant to survive stronger, smarter, more beautiful and only those who are worthy of it in the Reform Party world. That's what we saw when the Reform Party was in power last time, and now again. At the end of last year, news came that the government's plan to cut off the garbage cans and toilets from the new year's highways. From this came the scream and the Reform Party expressed its insult through the mouth of one of its Riigikogu ambassadors, who scornfully labeled the opposition that had brought attention to the loss of an important service in the 21st century as a toilet position. However, the most important information was hidden from the news about picking up toilets: the biggest savings on the new year's line of the Road Administration are the maintenance of tea. And when the new year began with the heavy snowfalls and fickle weather conditions, we saw every day in the evening news how on the unmanaged roads, the trenches slipped into the trenches, vehicles collided, and for several days in a row we saw tragic images of the recs smashing vans and cars that killed people. Absolutely all the comments taken from the police about what happened revealed the cause of the accident, not the fault of road users, but, above all, the poor or non-existent road maintenance. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And now I'm asking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What was the savings made on this, and the amount of money saved from the public service, which, unfortunately, will be...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U240	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U241	...the price of human life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U242	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U243	Thank you. When we started in the government a year ago, we inherited the budget that was written up under the leadership of the EKRE Minister of Finance. There were billions of uncovered promises. Basically, defence costs, educational costs, pension increases were covered by newspapers, not real money. Basically, we got an empty wallet and the costs were still there. So there was just air written for these expenses. It was what we inherited. That's what we had to do. What you specifically asked for, this reference is completely incorrect information, because you seem to suggest that the condition requirements of the road have been somehow impaired. That's not true. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has regulated the status requirements of a public road other than iced tea by means of a regulation. That Regulation was last amended on 29 October 2018. These requirements have not deteriorated in any way and no changes have been made in this respect. It's just that the weather's been really complicated. If one day it's cold and everything freezes, the other day it melts, then it freezes again, then it's very, very slippery. Of course, there will also be accidents. Of course, what helps is that people drive more cautiously when road conditions are complicated. But it certainly cannot be blamed, as if the road conditions had deteriorated because you were being cared for in a different way. No maintenance, that's false information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U244	Additional question... Maybe it will, maybe it won't. But fire! Please, an additional question from Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U245	Yeah, I'm sorry! It is a fact that road maintenance money in the budget of this year's Road Administration line has been greatly reduced. That's a fact. And, of course, you started answering my previous question again with lies, that all of this has already been overturned and that people who know the finances have already done so, which, of course, will not stop you from making a fool of yourself in public again. But let's go to the cuts. The government's cut-off plan is undermining our internal security and life-saving capabilities. In order to accomplish this, hundreds of jobs are being made redundant by the Ministry of the Interior, which have already led the rescuers on their feet. For example, at operational level, 70 people are made redundant and justified by the need to raise the remuneration of the rest. The rescue service, which was so far close to and accessible to people, moved further away from them. And indeed, the Minister of the Interior, Jaani, was able to raise the salaries of the senior police officers, among other things. For example, the salary of the Director-General of the PBA rose to EUR 6300, with three senior police officers now receiving EUR 5 000 and below which wages were raised to another EUR 4500 or EUR 4800. Kristian Jaani himself may have explained this to us here yesterday or the day before that they are so good specialists that it would be harder to find people in such places. Well, I don't know, I don't think Elmar Vaher would have quit his offended job if he didn't get that $300 raise. They couldn't even get rid of him with a lever in his day. But it is unclear to me how the salary rise of these already high-paid officials will help to increase our internal security, erase fires and save lives. And how much will it help to bring together 70 saviors and operatives who got 900 euros or a little bit more on payday? How much will it save the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U246	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U247	Thank you. First of all, please don't spread any false information. Road maintenance money has not been cut; it is also confirmed here by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Road maintenance money has not been cut, these requirements have not been made any worse. I suspect you may not be able to read the state budget like this, but the confirmation is here. Now, as far as the rescuers and the police are concerned, this year's state budget provides for an increase in the wages of the rescuers and the policemen. For this, too, the Minister of the Interior made efforts to find money, and neither have we been looking for cuts or austerity points for internal security, as we have looked for them in other places and also found them. However, we have found ways to work together between different ministries. For example, the long-term undecided issue of joining the fleets has led us to actually improve our defence capabilities. All the decisions that have been made are not at the expense of internal security. I understand that you are clear, and you do not really need this answer, so I will finish here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U248	And now one more question, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U249	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject of cuts, but in another area. I am talking about cutting the number of upper secondary schools with which the Ministry of Education has come out under the school networking label and, in the shadow of this label, it is said that support will be paid to the municipalities to close the upper secondary school section of small schools located on the outskirts of the country. Has the government discussed this issue more broadly, in the context of peripheralisation and the decline of rural areas, how it affects peripheralisation, such processes? And if so, why has no positive solution been sought, instead of supporting the closure of upper secondary school classes to support the continuation of upper secondary schools in remote areas? Because young people who live in Värska, Lihula or Märjamaa are certainly not responsible for having been born in this beautiful little place and must now move to state secondary school or to the county centre 70 or 100 kilometres every day between school and home, if upper secondary school is closed. Would the government try to find a positive solution here, a solution that supports people in these small places and young people, rather than financially supporting the closure of upper secondary schools, instead of contributing to the preservation of these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U250	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U251	Firstly, it is an opportunity for the local government, it is not an obligation. And it has nothing to do with the country's budget strategy or with the austerity measures that have been agreed in any way. Additional support is provided to local authorities who decide not to close a school, but to upper secondary school in which there are few students. Really, I've got this table here and those high school high schools where there aren't enough students. Basic education is the responsibility of the local government. Maintaining upper secondary school is a voluntary task of the local government. So whether or not upper secondary school is closed is the decision of the local government, the local community. This supplement may be used for the organisation of the school network and may be decided by the local authority for which it will use it. The Ministry of Education and Research is also engaged in wide-ranging discussions on this subject, and the discussion with the Cities and Municipalities Association has already been planned on 31 January. And once again, I want to stress: the decisions of your school network are made by the local government itself. The state is simply offering extra money to cooperate with the state on secondary education in these places. It builds on these strategies, which have also been agreed in the framework of "Estonia 2035." So, actually, if you look at this list of schools, actually look at the money that goes to offer their teachers, upper secondary school, you can certainly do better. But again, I'm not saying that the state says it in advance, it's up to the local government to decide. Because the local government is the school manager and the local government also has to decide whether it holds this upper secondary school degree or whether it does so, for example, in cooperation with other local authorities. So once again: this is not an obligation. It is absolutely voluntary, as it has always been voluntary so far, that the local authorities can decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U252	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U253	Thank you. I'd like to clear up a little bit of how I say, maybe my body language. The Prime Minister probably misunderstood my body language. I'm translating that I actually wanted him to talk, talk, talk. We are always very happy to listen to everything he has to say, and there are actually some pretty nice answers. But procedurally... And then he just sat down, said I wouldn't answer. Here a few days ago, I would remind you that even the question of a vigilante on the remote, he just listened to it and said that I understand that you don't like my answers here, and then I'd rather not answer. There are 101 people here, and we are really asking for all sorts of things. And the way I say it, such a reaction isn't in any way beneficial for the dialogue between the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister, if the Prime Minister, well, that's the second time he's just stopped talking, or he just says, you know, I see, I don't think you like my answers. And there are really answers that we don't like, but then he just stops answering and doesn't talk to us. It's not like it's polite.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U254	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U255	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, corresponding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas, and the subject is energy policy. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U256	Dear Minister, We all know the price of electricity has jumped into the ceiling. The people living in electric-heated dwellings who received the minimum wage bill in December are hardly comforted by the knowledge that next month, the government's aid package will reduce their January bill by about 20 euros. Only 20 euros less. There are reasons for a high price, of course. This market distortion has been caused by Russia's manipulations of gas supply to Europe, but also by our excessive dependence on gas-fired power plants, more generally by a lack of capacity. At the same time, we will see how the state belongs to Eesti Energia and Elering arguing in court whether the price of electricity that is already high should be paid to the electricity of the Toots wind farm being built another 5 euros and 37 cents per kilowatt-hour. Years of debate, but the construction's stopped. The completion of the last major wind farms will be ten years ago. In January, the price of electricity fell by 30% on the stock exchange, but if the number of production capacities does not increase, we will soon be back at the same place as we were in December. My question is: what have you, as a minister, done to create new power generation capacities in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U257	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U258	Thank you. Well, first of all, really, one of the main reasons for today's energy prices is the price of gas, that is true. There are certainly other factors in this regard, but the price of gas is undoubtedly one of the main reasons. Now, in the court of Elering and Eesti Energia. Actually, Elering doesn't argue in court. In the court, Eesti Energia disputes Elering's decision that Toots' wind farm should not be included in the first or old support scheme. And what has been done to ensure that we have new production capacities? First of all, why wind farms were built so long ago. The main reason here is still national defence restrictions. And one of the most important decisions that has been made in recent years, including when I have been Minister of Economic Affairs, is that it has been decided to acquire new radars for the Defence Forces, so that as much of Estonia's territory as possible is open to the development of wind farms. In addition, a number of fewer offers for renewable energy production have been carried out. One of the biggest ones has been announced, it's 450 gigawatts, less bid. This should end this summer. From there we can decide whether we will proceed immediately with the next offer of 650 gigawatts, or, in the meantime, the public procurement will be for renewable energy. In addition, by the way, this solution is also possible, as we know, which very much affects our network companies, it is linked to network losses. Net losses are valued in exactly the same way as energy as a whole, electricity as a whole. It has come to the point that, in order to cover network losses, Elering could, for example, announce the procurement of renewable energy. This is also one way to further boost the development of renewable energy solutions in Estonia. So, in summary, in recent years, very much has actually been done to enable us to bring additional wind energy and also solar energy to the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U259	And now for the additional question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U260	Thank you. Dear Minister, One long-term solution that people are offered to save electricity bills is to become an electricity producer. Solar panels already decorate the roofs of many houses. And, of course, it is very good, but we also know that such an opportunity is not available to all Estonian people. Last December, it turned out that none of the producers of Elektrilevi are allowed to join the network in Hiiumaa anymore. It will soon be the same in Saaremaa. The island's electricity grid has been being improved for years. The network operator's talk about a good power grid in Hiiumaa is so beautiful as to read the Voice of the People 70 years ago, but the concerns of micro-producers are unsolved. As early as 2016, Elering planned the construction of the 110-kilovolts line in Leisi. And now here's the questions. Why have these investments not been made? Why does an Estonian person have to suffer damage because of the failure of the state? And perhaps you would comment if there was also time for people now living in electric-heated dwellings to receive the December bill, who have this bill the minimum wage, but the so-called aid package will only compensate about EUR 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U261	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U262	Thank you. On the back, I think that, as I said in answering one previous question, I think that these aid packages are meant to be diverse, so that there are certainly packages for everyone, and there would certainly be a package for those who do not benefit so much from this package for all. So I think it makes sense to use the diversity of packages. Now, as far as micro-producers are concerned. One of my favorite subjects, I'm a microproducer myself, I can share experience. And I can assure you, as a microproducer, it will be very nice to power the grid in the summer. However, as a micro-producer in winter, this production process does not benefit very much because it simply does not produce it. And that is why I think that this decision of a micro-producer must be very self-made, that this micro-production cannot be developed in a campaign. Everyone has to do their own chores, whether they pay or not. On the other hand, if we take the country's energy system as a whole, there are really very clear bottlenecks here with regard to micro-producers. If we take it, I'll give you my example again. There are eight kilowatts of panels on the roof. If you multiply it by hours, I could actually produce about 70,000 kilowatts a year. Unfortunately, my annual production is only four and a half thousand. And now, as far as the State is concerned, if micro-producers wish to join the network, it actually means that they reserve a very large volume of this network, because potentially they can produce so much, it must also be taken into account by the network company, in all cases with this maximum option, while it is quite clear that this maximum will not come practically ever, perhaps in a few moments per year. So, as far as the energy system is concerned, it is actually better to have such a large and specific production unit. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U263	And now for an additional question, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with energy policy in the same place as the last supplementary question: support for businesses, small businesses, rural businesses. When the Prime Minister was before the Riigikogu last week with questions about energy, I asked him twice about it. And he spoke and clearly described that there was going to be a support measure for businesses. He also listed the problems that had to be resolved first, but hoped that this measure would come up within a week or two. Have you not been informed about this, or should you simply not say, is there a measure coming or not? I am not talking about this network charge thing, but the Prime Minister specifically pointed out that there would be some additional measure for businesses. Are you aware of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U265	Thank you. I understand that when it was said last week, I assume it was the same network fee measure. Because last week we did not yet have an agreement on any of the measures in fact. This agreement has now been reached and indeed this network charge measure applies to undertakings. It would not be acceptable for us to agree that KredEx will also be offered guarantees if necessary to undertakings if, for some reason, it is precisely because of the rise in energy prices that they are in temporary difficulties and see that with the KredEx guarantee they can continue to operate. So this, too, is an additional measure for companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U266	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U267	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Alar Laneman, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, the topic is plans for the development of anti-aircraft. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since taking office, my colleague and I have tried to support you and also to settle disputes properly and discreetly. But I have a feeling that, unfortunately, you're not gonna retaliate on your side, and that's why I have to ask here. You know that the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu expressed by consensus at its meeting the need to develop anti-aircraft, proposing to the Government of the Republic to create this capacity by 2025. On Saturday in the Facebook National Defence Group, the head of your administration, the Commander of the Defence Forces, again expressed his opposition to the development of anti-aircraft capabilities and also to the protection of Suur-Tallinn. That is not a priority. And also called those who wanted anti-aircraft basically stupid longings. I quote: "I don't think most of those who miss it realize what it's going to do at all. " This is an embarrassing case, especially after a decision has been taken by the National Defence Commission. This is a gross rise to the rules of civil control and it should be known to you as a long-standing good colleague in the Committee on National Defence. Since you have previously coordinated the positions of the Commander of the Defence Forces, such as the Postimees article last autumn, I ask: is it also your opinion that those who want anti-aircraft, in this case also the National Defence Committee, are longing who have not understood it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U269	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U270	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! First of all, I would like to thank you for all the discretion that we have maintained in defence matters and have felt throughout. If we take this year's decisions, and the extent to which the government has actually taken, then more than EUR 500 million have been decided to enhance broad-based national defence, an additional euro, which is an extremely powerful step. I absolutely believe that, in this security situation, courageous decisions must be made because, as we know, the security situation sometimes changes in hours. But maybe I could bring you a little bit, I'm sure a good questioner and Leo will know the details, but a lot of people don't know what this midland anti-aircraft is and what it looks like. Since the main characteristics of the minimum mid-land control capability are such that the unit consists of two fire batteries. Each battery contains three firing devices, two radars and a fire control center. In addition, ammunition, other unit weapons, various support vehicles and other equipment must be acquired. The unit's troops will be required up to the size of the infantry company. The entity needs storage and maintenance infrastructure. The unit consists of a minimum of 34 active troops and 132 reserve troops, along with a military unit. We're talking "minimum" all the time right now. The cost or cost of setting up such an entity is approximately 250.260 million euros in today's prices plus maintenance costs, roughly 20 million euros each year. Yes, we see how quickly prices actually change. While in 2021 this cost may have been around 244 million, the cost of creation has been basically 14 million growth, not to mention unit training, exercises, the annual cost of ammunition for active troops and so on. Our decision, the last decision, where we had a midland anti-aircraft on the table, was a proposal from this 380 million to develop three capabilities, one of which was midland anti-aircraft. Unfortunately, all options were considered and it was found that the need for ammunition is now more important than the medium-range anti-aircraft that can be implemented more immediately... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. I believe we can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U271	More question, Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U272	Thank you. In this case, it is a problem that the Commander of the Defence Forces questions the competence of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, naming them, including others who would like to develop anti-aircraft, who have not understood it, those who long. Now, here's the problem. And this isn't the first time. The cost and complexity of the unit, it's known. None of the capabilities we have in the Defence Forces today have often started from nothing but nothing. And when we talk about cost, the problem is that if there is not enough of the amount planned or proposed, then what is the right amount? And the position of the Commander of the Defence Forces is not so much about that amount as about having priorities elsewhere. He's got priorities elsewhere. In this post, this is described in detail. In particular, it is frustrating that the decision of the National Defence Committee is likely to be known. I'm quoting this post, it's pretty interesting. The Commander of the Defence Forces does not intend to protect the Suur-Tallinn region. That's how you figure it out. You hope this is a mistake. I quote: "When I explained that the airfighters protecting Suur-Tallinn are not defending our troops because they are fighting elsewhere, they simply ignored this story. "I'd like to know where our troops will be fighting if they don't protect Big-Tallinn. If possible, answer me about the conflict I put to the first question. And maybe you can figure out whose job it is to develop anti-aircraft. Do we need to make a new army? Or do we have a very capable mupo in Tallinn, he will deal with it? Whose assignment is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U273	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U274	Thank you. As I did in my previous reply, it was that when we applied by the Ministry of Defence to the Government of the Republic for the powers that we see, which would need to be developed urgently, we had three proposals, two of which were realised and one, or mid-earth air control, was excluded at the moment. Because we also have to make our decisions because of the financial situation of that moment. And as I emphasised, the security situation may change so quickly that we need to make new decisions again. Perhaps no one has said that midland anti-aircraft is not important, but you always have to make choices. I find it difficult to comment on what concerns discussions in a specific closed Facebook group. As I said, this is a closed Facebook group, and I believe that many of the people in this Chamber have expressed their personal opinions in a certain key, which maybe in the public domain and, let's say, as an official, is not quite appropriate. So these are, in my opinion, two completely different things. And thirdly, mid-range anti-aircraft is a priority we have. And at this point, we are developing it in such a way that we have the development of monitoring and management points in cooperation with our allies, and if our situation is to become more complicated again, we need to discuss how to resolve this situation. But I want to stress that the mid-range anti-aircraft hasn't been wiped off the table anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U275	And now for an additional question. Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! This time I'm gonna make a little bit of a longer comment. Once, when we had a development plan in the first half of the period of Andrus Ansip's reign, there were 42000 wartime Defence Forces, districts, midland anti-aircraft, tanks, other things. There was a fall, of course cuts were made, but after them they were not returned and a new philosophy was created, the name of which was a viable national defence, which has so far prevailed throughout. General Laaneots left the service, and he became an advisor to the Prime Minister, and he saw clearly that errors were coming in and drew the Prime Minister's attention to this. I myself wrote about all of this in succession back then, but the Prime Minister's decision was, of course, I don't know literally, because I wasn't in the dialogues about having the Commander of the Defence Forces lead. General Terras was in charge, and these power developments were missed, and these development plans came the way they came. Now, in essence, on these issues too, the government is for the same decisions that yes, both the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister can decide. Commander of the Defence Forces, let him lead, let him make decisions. But it is obvious here that the consequences of these decisions can be very serious. What else can I suggest? I'm not an airman. General Herem is not an airman. We have air and air security specialists. Three men I can name: General Roosimägi, General Saar and General Loemaa. If you would invite them all to your place once again and explain to them what it means to protect the Suur-Tallinn space, which is the protection of the units for which all this is necessary. I don't have a question, that's my comment, recommendation at last.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U277	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U278	Thank you. I thank you very much for that comment. I cannot say that I am a great specialist in defence, but I have worked in internal security and internal security for 20 years and I look at Estonia as a whole. And if we are always talking about protecting Suur-Tallinn, we have already lost the rest of Estonia. I don't think that's right. We must protect Estonia, not Suur-Tallinn. We must protect Vaindloo Island, we must protect Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and all of South Estonia. We can't just look at Big-Tallinn. Trust is what really costs the whole area. If I don't trust the Commander of the Defence Forces or the Commander of the Defence Forces, if I don't trust the Chief of the Defence League, if I don't trust the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate, how can our state be protected? I trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U279	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U280	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, corresponding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas, the subject is free public transport. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U281	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, You have said as a minister, and I really believe that this is the way you thought that free public transport has come to stay. That's a good idea. I don't always realize that your coalition partner feels the same way, and I probably don't. But now, specifically, words are one, but actions are completely different. Today, the reality is that unpopular decisions have been pushed onto the shoulders of local governments, or more precisely, of the public transport centre. At the end of last week, a letter from the Director-General of the Transport Board arrived at the public transport centres, stating that state support would only be granted for the first half of the year. And the fact that the cut-off plan is 2% of the network in all regions is also known. Also at our meeting, which you were prepared nicely for the municipalities, specifically then for the municipalities of Viljandi County, and there were others, you said that you were doing your best. Now my question is whether, for the first half of January, this money and use is now allocated, whether it is hoped that there will be an additional budget or what the prospects are. Because people are very worried. And people are worried about whether certain lines disappear at all. Local authorities, of course, must decide with the public transport centre, perhaps again, that these unpopular decisions on this beautiful promise that transport, which is meant to remain free, will not actually remain. And have you taken regional policy into account when making such decisions? We are seeing or encountering a situation where different decisions are constantly reducing the country, alienating it from people and especially from those living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U282	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U283	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable questioner! Yeah, I heard about that communication between the Transport Department and the public transport centres yesterday. Today I had a meeting with the Transport Department. Tomorrow, yes, tomorrow, Thursday, I've asked for a meeting with public transport centres. Perhaps my first goal is to get us together, to get these problems cleared up. We also had a discussion with the Transport Department that we would definitely look at this 2%. As far as I know, in the Viljandi section, the Transport Department has done so, at least that's what's been confirmed to me. Tomorrow we can also talk about this more precisely, because in Viljandi, this is really how the correction of the network has been done in the past. And actually, this is where the situation comes out. Public transport centres have behaved very differently during this pandemic. There are those who have made corrections, there are those who have made fewer corrections, who have not done at all, but the Northern Public Transport Centre, for example, has recently even increased the volume of routes, simply because there are more passengers. This picture is very different. Therefore, before making final decisions, I have asked for this meeting tomorrow to meet with the public transport centres again and then, in cooperation with the Transport Board, to make these final decisions, which is the percentage that we are proposing that public transport centres can get the resources at their disposal, in order, if necessary, to pull something together, so as to be able to act flexibly, so that, where necessary, the network may also be able to contribute more in one word. So, yes, that would be the answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U284	Additional question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U285	Thank you very much. I am delighted by this answer, in the sense that Viljandi Transport Centre, the public transport centre has actually behaved very responsibly and observed the situation that arose during the Crown's time, and indeed these routes were then tightened or have shortened and reduced the journey when there were no passengers. Because it was clear that quite a lot of passengers fell. As of today, the financial cover is actually missing for 28288 kilometres in Viljandi and amounts to EUR 29000. That's actually 2% of the network. I really hope that this fine idea, the plan, the free public transport, which will allow people to work at the centre, without having to pay for the minimum wage, which unfortunately is still taxed today, should not be paid for bus and coach transport. A lot of people use it and have used it instead of road transport. It would be sad if we had to start making changes so that what was promised for the elections, and probably in the elections, will change through a good result. So I very much hope for a positive solution to this consultation of yours and that there will be no situation where 2% will be stalled by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U286	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U287	Thank you. This is a positive comment rather than a question. But yes, I may say so much more that there is actually a situation in which public transport centres on the one hand have behaved very differently in this crisis. At the same time, we certainly have a situation where municipalities contribute very differently to public transport. And this study of Harjumaa, Tallinn-Harjumaa, pointed out that these borders really are from extremes to extremes, especially the contribution of local governments. So, on the one hand, I am really trying to make every effort not to reduce the share of the state in public transport, but I am sure to call on municipalities to contribute more to public transport and to think more about how public transport can be better organised in areas, how it can be organised more effectively. I also call for public transport centres. I certainly think it is wise to look at what experience has been gained in Saaremaa with demand-based public transport arrangements. It's very well received there. I certainly agree with sharing what experience gained in Saaremaa. In Saaremaa it is certainly also possible to take the following decisions, as a result of this experience, how to organise this demand-based public transport even better and more efficiently for the municipality. And it is also certainly possible to do so by improving access to public transport for people, while at the same time the cost of this public transport may not increase. I think there is a great deal that we can do in cooperation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U288	Now for an additional question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U289	Thank you, Minister. We know that the Viljandi Public Transport Centre acted in a very responsible manner during the crisis, when people moved less, saving resources and pooling the network. Now the obligation to cut will be the same for everyone, regardless of the basis and the decisions taken in the recent past. And those areas where no cuts were made are, of course, in a more favourable position. This is certainly not a sensible approach and a fair approach. You said that you are now trying to break up the problem, but you know that the underlying reason for the problem is the political decision made in the government. Public transport was simply given less money. So if there is less money, you can roll it however you want, a political decision and a political solution at the level of the government. It's not like we're gonna get more money with a redistribution. But my more general comment or question. Are there plans to review the functioning of so-called free public transport? This is unfair, and for that I have already warned you about in the previous or previous government, what the result is that both money and resources will be gathered primarily in Tallinn and Harjumaa, around larger centres, through a subsidy, where there is a denser network of routes, where there is a need for more subsidies and where there are enough passengers to pay off the routes when driving a ticket. If you still do so, you will do the public transport on the bus, but the train will be next to you, which is subject to a charge, some people will also get on the bus, the load will increase on the buses and the need for subsidies in the Tallinn and Harjumaa areas will increase further. And now it's happened. The money is collected around Tallinn, where the bus network is dense, where there is a railroad side, but in rural areas, the funds are becoming scarcer and scarcer. This is what happened with the introduction of free public transport. This is inside out regional policy. Disprove my claims if you can, but I relied on the facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U290	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U291	Yeah, thanks! That's a great discussion. First of all, as regards Viljandi, as I said, it is certainly not the same approach for all municipalities. And this discussion concerning Viljandi, we already had with the Transport Department and with the public transport centres, if I am not mistaken, in December, but it could have been in November. In fact, this Viljandi question is a long time ago and the question of all those municipalities who have behaved differently in the crisis. Now the example of Harjumaa. There is no free public transport in Harjumaa; in Harjumaa there is partly free public transport. So Harjumaa can certainly not be cited as an example here or compared to those areas where public transport is free of charge. The situation in Harjumaa is absolutely different. It's free transport only for certain groups of people. And there are areas where transport is free for everyone. Rather, I would say the opposite: free public transport is regional policy; it also gives people in these regions greater mobility, where perhaps the income is not as high as it is in Harjumaa. I think this is absolutely necessary in these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U292	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U293	Let us move on to question nine. It has been presented by the Anti Half Office, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the theme is "Objective 55." Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U294	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! On Monday, we were in a position to decide on Estonia's position on 'Objective 55' in defending our rights in the institutions of the European Union. At the same time, we examined it thoroughly in the support group for protecting Estonia's interests in this same climate issue and found that Estonia's views are very lean. Going out, running under the bar. In a situation where any detailed decision, such as on forestry, could mean the loss of 20,000 to 30,000 jobs, it will be a severe blow to rural areas if we do not defend our position, for example, at this point alone, the teeth crossed. Not to mention that our tax sovereignty is being attacked and so on. Why did the government come up with such a lean program, and why didn't you pick up any good ideas? We did not make this up ourselves, but we had a large number of stakeholders, interest groups: the motorists' agency, the food industry, the chemical industry and so on and so forth. They were extremely concerned and expressed very competent views. Maybe there's still a chance to sit down with the government or the coalition to pick out a few points of this idea that may be very important to us, because in fact, information is also insane for the government and the impact analyses are nonexistent or lean. There should be more cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U295	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U296	Thank you. I understand that there have also been some in-depth discussions in the Riigikogu on these positions in the Committee on European Union Affairs, where these positions are also confirmed and returned to the government. I understand that you have had many different sessions here to coordinate these views. Now, what do I want to say, first of all, why are we even discussing this herbal cord? In essence, this is a change in the economic model in order to achieve the same prosperity with less damage to nature. In this aim of achieving climate neutrality in the European Union and reducing emissions in the European Union as a whole by 55% by 2030, the Heads of State and Government agreed at the European Council in December 2020, while your party was also in government. Our positions specify the positions that have been built on the positions of the previous government. What I want to say is that we are going to have a very long process of reaching the end of these positions or the end result of this package. All the proposals are certainly welcome, and I believe that we will be able to hold these debates many more times. Current positions give us space to protect Estonia's interests, protect the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs, but do not corner us in the fact that we cannot choose the tactics of negotiations, which is also important. The way these negotiations are conducted at European level is that, on the one hand, it makes no sense to oppose everything, because then you will simply not be taken into account. And it certainly makes sense to find allies. We have found allies in various thematic areas, such as forest issues, we have similar positions with the Nordic countries and Latvia, certainly we will stick together and defend them. At the same time, with regard to the maritime sector, we have a supporter, with the same views being expressed by Cyprus and Greece. It is important not to be alone, and it is important to keep and have a position in the negotiations in order to speak out as suitable as possible and to ensure that these conditions are also met and that the Estonian economy is taken forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U297	A further question. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U298	There's a problem right here. Indeed, the fact that the European Union, which should not have a role in determining our taxes, is once again pushing the Member States into tax sovereignty, in the desire to harmonise excise duties on various energy carriers and productions. And I looked worriedly, like biogas here and things like that get on the excise axe. There are both legal problems in interfering with the sovereignty of the Member States, and still in the fact that what kind of domestic production we are developing if we are hit by a price axe and we cannot give priority to what has been produced in our own country, we lose energy security, we buy, I do not know where, via Finland, Russian electricity. Ends up like shutting down Ignalina, shutting down, and Lithuania became very energy dependent on Russia. We wouldn't want that. You also say it doesn't make sense. How can we maintain energy security in such circumstances when we have domestic production being suppressed by various decisions of the European Union? There were a number of questions and a number of issues. How does this designation of excise duties outside affect all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U299	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U300	Thank you. There are quite a few issues here. First, energy security. One point in the whole operation of the electricity market is that we actually ensure this energy security through the fact that we have security of supply, either in terms of production capacity or in terms of connections. And if you bring in this Russia, we have actually agreed in 2011, maybe now I am wrong in a year, but in the 2010s, we are de-syncing the Estonian-Latvian-Lithuania electricity networks from Russian networks and connecting them to the Central European frequency band. These investments are increasingly being made, and this connection to the Central European frequency band should take place in 2025. One thing is to keep the frequency and the other is to keep the capacity, of course, so that we have enough electricity here. I think that the energy price crisis that we are currently experiencing shows very well that we do not really want to be dependent on Russia. If we look at the rise in energy prices in Europe, it is very much linked to the increase in the price of natural gas. After all, the price of natural gas is very much controlled by Russia, even through these connections. So that's definitely the thing that makes sense for us to get rid of in the long run, so we can have electricity, rooms warm and people's lights on. And for that, we alone, with 1.3 million inhabitants here, certainly cannot do as well as if we were working with our neighbours, Latvia-Lithuania, but also with the Nordic countries, so that there would be a more stable price and that would be long-term.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U301	And now one more question. Peter Ernits, please! Excuse me, I'm requesting a microphone for Peter Ernits. Wait a minute! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U302	Excuse me, good manager! Good Prime Minister! We have a newly created national interest protection parliamentary group in the Riigikogu, including a very large number of 28 members of the Riigikogu, including the President of the honourable Parliament. And we discussed here last weekend and weekend, we agreed with the leaders of about twenty representative organisations on our views on the position of this climate agreement in Estonia to the government. And they got 11 points. And my question is that, Prime Minister, have you even read these points of view? And another thing is that since this 55 target is Europe-wide, but Estonia has already accomplished it a lot, 55% above, but we have 72, and do you share our views that each country can first see separately that it reaches 55, and that we, who have already crossed it a lot, could largely be satisfied with the determination of these ambitions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U303	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U304	Thank you. After all, the will of the Riigikogu is the task of the government, and the European Union Affairs Commission has shaped the Riigikogu's positions, which have also been forwarded to the government, and consequently the government participates in the negotiations that take place in the European Union. So we will definitely adhere to this Riigikogu's messages and hold the Riigikogu's positions and get grips. As far as the whole package is concerned, our position has also been that each country must choose its own path in some areas, and must be free to choose its own path, that in some areas we have been better and not so good in some areas, and that it should be up to each country to decide how to share different steps between these areas. Because if there is such a general objective, then it could mean that we're doing a little bit more in one area to do a little bit less in another, and everything is still connected to the vessel system. I would stress that, however. After all, you are also a natural person, and the point of this is that we can get the economic model we are used to, the well-being we are used to, keep on holding or enjoying, but with the condition that we hurt nature less, be it the sea, let it be the forest, let it be the air. And all that is necessary is for people's quality of life to be better and for nature to last, so that we do not drain natural resources for purely short-term economic benefits, and so that this nature, or this environment, exists in this form for our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U305	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Procedural question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U306	Yes, thank you! I have a procedural question. Last Wednesday, when I asked the Prime Minister how much Eesti Energia bought the CO2 quota in December and how the government's CO2 trade balance was in December, the Prime Minister promised to reply in writing. I just have the question, has the Prime Minister forgotten about this, or...? In any case, I have not received that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U307	I'm sure if the Prime Minister promised, he'll answer you. [[Echo Kallas comments.]] So, thank you very much for asking all the members of the Riigikogu, I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for responding. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U308	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the third Wednesday session of the VII session. It is now possible for members of the Riigikogu to hand over drafts and questions. The first to register is the Anti Half-Amets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U309	Good fellows! On behalf of 18 representatives of the public, I am reporting an inquiry into the European Union 2015. The 2003 Migration Plan and the European Commission's 2017 call for international protection for foreigners admitted to Estonia. These individuals are only 213, but they are like a focus group, whose coping is characterised by the motives of people from another cultural area for applying for international protection and for integration or general coping in a new situation. The knowledge of how relocated and displaced persons have been able to integrate into Estonian society provides the basis for shaping immigration and integration policies. The Minister of the Interior has highlighted this issue in two replies, but unfortunately some of the questions that have been asked have not been answered and clarification is necessary. I'll hand it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U310	Thank you! Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of a series of ambassadors, I present an inquiry into the funding of higher education. The Rector of the University of Tartu, Toomas Asser, said 25 January on Vikerraadio "News+"...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U312	Mr. Lotman, I'm sorry for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, Mikhail Lotman often has a very strong and powerful voice, but I think even I've gotten a little bit of awkward at hearing him right now. Mr. Lotman would like to tell you something very important. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U313	Yeah, a lot of the time already went by. Okay. So on January 25th, Toomas Asser said on Vikerradio "News+" that universities would not sign a state award... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! ... an administrative contract if the government fails to find additional funding for higher education for the next three years. Following the reform of higher education initiated by the Fatherland, state support for universities rose to 1.5% of GDP. Unfortunately, this level has fallen to 1.1% today. In view of the increased wage expectations, rising cost of living and other factors in recent years, under-funding for higher education means under-funding. The quality and competitiveness of Estonian higher education declines compared to other countries. Nevertheless, neither the government nor the coalition parties supported proposals by the Isamaa Group to increase funding for higher education by EUR 20 million in the state budget for 2022. In this regard, I have four specific questions here which, unfortunately, I cannot read out in the absence of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U314	Yeah, but the chance to read them is when there's a questioning. Ivi Eenmaa, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U315	Mr President, maybe there is a way to set up microphones better. I mean, you can't actually hear anything in the middle. [[It's buzzing in the hall.]] Either way, we can't hear you here, even if the people are quiet in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U316	Ladies and gentlemen, I may have a little lower timbre, and I can make that sound louder around the microphone. Everyone you come to the speaker's desk, pull these microphones a little closer to you. I'm sure the technical staff will be monitoring it on a regular basis. If it's possible to turn it up, we can turn it up a little bit, but we can't turn it all up. Perhaps a sincere suggestion: Whoever comes and has a slightly quieter voice, do not be afraid to draw these microphones closer to you. Mart Helme, please! But that doesn't mean the buzzing in the hall should get bigger right now. All right, Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U317	Good President! I have the exact same thing. It's chronic, you just can't hear it back here. There's gotta be a loud-voiced specimen like me to be heard all over the hall. And I have two proposals. Proposal No 1 is to introduce this whole sound system to renewal and maybe today, in the 20th century, it is not impossible that, if necessary, we also have a small speaker on this table. He who doesn't hear well turns it on. This actually applies to briefings, especially when ministers talk behind masks. And another suggestion is that I organise rhetorical courses for all members of the Riigikogu, or even speech courses, so that everyone learns to speak loudly and articulate their words so that they are understandable and not poked under their noses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U318	Thank you for these proposals. I think we're all 101 here exactly the way we are. And I believe that the voice that we have been given is also specific to each of us. It doesn't have to be the same, it doesn't have to be a specimen, it can come up and talk about how the vocal cords are given. But indeed, I think the most important thing, Mr Helme and everyone else, is that if someone is on the remote, we respect who is on the remote, and we are even in the hall. I believe that the sound system that is here, by the way, under the microphone, is actually the one on every remote control where that sound comes through the same way. It's worth paying attention and listening to what they say on the remote, so it's easier for all of us. And a simple, elementary courtesy, too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U319	Thank you, good vice chairman. Your call at first sounded good, but I might ask you to stress that there is no point in doing the real Andres Herkel either. As a reminder, in the previous composition, he regulated the whole of his speech there, and then there were no more microphones to regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U320	Still within reason. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U321	Good manager! This is my colleague, Helme, who said that he should speak out loud. But has it come to you, Mr Ligi, that silence is gold, that everything has already been decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U322	Thank you for that remark or for the thought. Mart Helme has another procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U323	Well, the details of my previous speech. First of all, I'm not born with that kind of speech. I've been practicing this and I had 12 years of lectures at the university, which certainly developed the way that I regulated my speech so that everyone, both in small and large auditoriums...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U324	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U325	The second question is that rudeness can also be spoken with a quiet voice, so courtesy has nothing to do with this. And the third is that the proposal, above all, was to reorganize the entire sound system of our hall in such a way that each and every national envoy would be able, without effort, to monitor what is being said at the top of the hall, whether it be at Question Time or at the Speaker's Board. That's a problem. This is not just my problem, it is a problem for very many people, especially those sitting behind here, so I would ask the Bureau to put this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U326	Thank you! George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U327	I understand there may not be a good hearing from the back.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U328	Gentlemen, Jüri, I'm sorry for a moment, gentlemen in the middle of the ring, there's a buzz again. Mr. Sester, Mr. Michal, Mr. Ligi, may I ask your attention to Mr. Jüri Jaanson? George, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U329	Yeah, I can talk harder than I have to. But obviously, this buzzing, well, I don't know why he's there. But in a word, I agree that there's probably too much buzz in the back, and the ambassadors are hearing badly. But I just wanted to point out that before changing the sound system, it is already possible or transcribed to speak in a textual and automatic way in this hall, so that everyone can see it on their computer. You might want to remind the ambassadors. It'll help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U330	But most of it begins with us being polite and respectful to the speaker. Then we hear pretty well, I guess. Urmas Reinsalu will come and prove it immediately if we can hear him or not. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U331	Let's get down to business. On behalf of 23 members of the Riigikogu, I will hand over the draft Riigikogu statement "Objective 55" in the negotiations on the climate package on the national interests of Estonia. The positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which were confirmed on Monday by the Estonian Committee on European Union Affairs without any substantive discussion, do not correspond to the national interests of Estonia, according to the initiators. There is no substantive analysis of impacts. These proposals are not for the competitiveness of our business, consumers, homeowners and the economy as a whole. This is an initiative of enormous social and socio-economic significance, which concerns the package launched by the European Commission, so it is important, on the basis of the parliamentary principle, that these issues be discussed by the representative of the people and that it gives its clear position on what positions must be taken in the interests of Estonia. The National Interest Support Group in the European Union climate package also met a wide range of interest organisations. This concern and this message is unambiguous: the government in these confirmed positions does not stand up for Estonia's interests enough and the understanding of interest organisations, our business organisations, which are actually not going to happen both after the government's positions and when the proposal presented by the European Commission is being realised. Good luck with all of us working on this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U332	Okay. Looks like there's no more calls. Consequently, one draft and two requests for information have been adopted. And, of course, the board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U333	74 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U334	And now for a little detail on the agenda. Indeed, yesterday we were in the middle of a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and related laws (483 SE). The initiators answered the questions of Elik Heiki Kranich is welcome again in the speech chair. And yesterday, Tarmo Kruusimäe was last registered to ask questions. Jevgeni Ossinovski had signed up for the negotiations. So if Evgeni exists, he has to consider it, if he isn't, then the Snots need to find a new performer. Mr. Kranich, please! Yes, Mr. Kruusimäe, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U335	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! I, too, believe that laws will, over time, get in the way of a parliamentary debate. When you said yesterday or yesterday in the group, you thought that the noise from emotions, which is at this point in time, did not shake you. But this noise, you can see now, at this point, still a little bit of performers out there already tightening up. And my question is this. I am sure that you actually already have those votes in the coalition, that one former Minister for the Environment and the other current Minister for the Environment are the initiators of this matter. You're powerful people in your political groups. So you already have that support. Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U336	I'm sorry, but, Mr. Tarmo, you're not on the right track. As you know, this bill has been submitted by four members of the Riigikogu. Although they belong to four different political parties, this is not a political party, much less a coalition bill. When you're talking about the aziotage around this bill, you said it wouldn't affect me. Yes, I dare say that the reproaches, which are based on false claims, and unfortunately they are mostly, I am not really shaken. But I'm sad to see a lot of other people are shaking it. Because a lot of complainers, as well as those who hear or listen to these accusations, have not really taken into account the substance of the matter or the substance of the draft. And in that case, they'll let themselves be shaken by what we have today, the winter, the winter-sintering wind, which maybe in the wrong direction. That is, quoting film classics, today's sad fact, and we must take that into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U337	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U338	Thank you. Good performer! We know that Estonia's dozens of organisations, nature conservation organisations, and thousands of individuals have only joined in a few days to address Estonia's beaches and shores and call for a vote against this draft. They will see that this draft plans to significantly reduce the scope of the construction ban zone on the beach and on the shores of inland waters, which means irreversible consequences for our nature and, of course, for human movements. Do you still think that the owner's rights are first and only then will the interests of the people, nature conservation and the right of all of us to Estonia come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U339	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, your question is based on false assumptions. It is clear that, if there is a need for protection in the public interest, there is a situation where the public interest is very clearly outweighing the private interest. What needs to be changed in the future in the Nature Conservation Act as regards relations between the state and private owners, especially in the field of nature conservation, needs to be further regulated in order for these relations to be in place. That's what we talked about last night. As regards the purpose of this bill, which is often missed, it is that in fact, it is not the rights of the private owner that are increased, but the decision-making power over whether or not the central decision-making, or the decision-making of the Environmental Board, is passed on to the local government. We have praised the municipalities in terms of this and the other way around, but when we talk about real life, they are often simply run over. And the lack of consideration of this draft shows, first and foremost, deep distrust of local authorities, or the structural structure of the country, which is laid down today at constitutional level. I firmly believe that more trust must be given to local governments, and this bill is one step in order for local authorities to have more rights. To tie it to the possibility that is, as tragically often expressed here, that it will soon be built all over the place, that the coastline will immediately change, and so on it is not true. Under today's law, half of Estonia's beaches have already been built and done on the basis of special permits granted either by the Minister or later by the Environmental Board. So all this aziotage around the bill is, how I say, illusional and doesn't correspond to the actual situation. As has been said yesterday, today's regime does not actually guarantee the protection of beaches, because the decision-makers are high and far away. In fact, this decision-making mechanism should be changed in order to manage the same protection of beaches precisely in the interests of local communities, rather than to do it from a purely distance, so for fun.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U340	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U341	Thank you. I had a completely different question, but motivated by this last answer, I ask the good initiator of the bill in such a way that why did you choose the path that the default limit is 20 meters and if the local government thinks it should be further away, it will not allow it to be built on the 20 meters border. Then why didn't you make the decision maker, as you say, that it's somewhere far away today, the Ministry or the Environmental Board? Then why didn't you put the local government in place as a decision-maker to allow us to build closer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U342	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the question. Could you repeat that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U343	The second question is, Kalvi repeats it during the second question. At the moment, Paul Puustusmaa will have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U344	But in that case, I'm gonna answer...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U345	Just as you understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U346	The way I figured it out. Why didn't we describe in the law that local governments could decide within 20 metres? No, in short, within 20 meters, the local government cannot decide. The municipality can decide from this water protection zone towards the land. And it is explicitly stated in this law that this can be decided by the local government to the extent that the Environmental Board decides today. This means bringing decision-making closer to the community and increasing the rights of local authorities. It's written directly in this bill. If I misunderstood something, maybe you can be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U347	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U348	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Heiki! You said the reproaches, the reproaches you make, they don't shake you. At the same time, we know that many others, and you also admit that many of the other ambassadors who are here, as well as the actual public, are still shaky about these reproaches. Therefore, I ask: what do you think are the most difficult or difficult, misleading, perhaps the most false accusations, which will then be made to the public about this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U349	Thank you. To be precise, I didn't say I wasn't gonna be shaken by reproach. Complaints based on a reality that is true are always worth considering. And if you want to interpret it like that, they shake me, a question of how much I'm shaking, whether the company is justified or not. But often today's reproach is based on false claims. And when you said I should list them, I listed them yesterday, I'm ready to list them today. First of all... Oh, my God, there's so many of them. First of all, the people are denied access to the beach. Wrong. The explanatory memorandum to this law states clearly: the regulation of the shoreline does not change. And what is related today to the problems with the shoreline has been due to the fact that, under the law already in force today, the Environmental Board simply does not fulfil the rights granted to it or does not exercise the rights granted to it in order to ensure access to the shoreline. This is not the subject of this bill. The second topic: the beaches are immediately built full and the coastline changes dramatically. Well, I'm sorry, I'd say that. This bill does nothing more than pass the decision-making power on to the local government, and it depends on the decision of the local government whether someone is allowed to be built closer to Saaremaa, for example, 200 metres, and if it is 180 meters, it would be like a clear exaggeration to call it dramatic to complete the beaches. Furthermore, I am absolutely certain that there is a significant and prominent part of the decision-making process in local governments based on common sense. And that now all the municipalities are rushing to build on the beaches, even where this construction is completely unreasonable, I do not see that the attitude, which was also stated by the Ministry of Finance, that the local authorities lack competence, and the main leitmotif of all these reproachers, that local authorities are like stupid, greedy and corrupt, I do not think that such an attitude is justified. In addition, it has been said that the forest will soon be cut off from the beach, that the protected areas will immediately be lost, all the more. Very much foolish, untrue talk is what has led those people who have not taken into consideration the objectives of this bill, who have not read the text of this bill and the explanatory memorandum, to the fact that people are really rocking, so it is said that there will be a great deal of evil coming and doing something very bad. I don't know, I don't know, they eat the kids or whatever. Then a person gets scared, really. And it's easier to react now and just in case, like against. It's easy to be against something instead of picking up four pages of text, reading through, and God, using brain activity. So a lot of inaccuracies and, unfortunately, a direct lie has helped to criticise this bill in order to create an emotional bubble that, good Paul, has certainly shaken you too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U350	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U351	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Heiki! One of the problems in this bill is the role of local government. In particular, as the initiators of the draft, you have said that this draft or this amendment would give local authorities more discretion, allowing the scope of the construction ban zone to be increased if they wish. But then it is said in favour of the opposing camp that in reality this is not the case that the local government still has the right to increase and reduce the scope of the planning and construction ban zone. How do you comment on that? Which way is this right, or where does this conflict come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U352	Thank you. Right, as usual, is sometimes. Local authorities may have a great deal of goodwill in planning, for example, to reduce the construction ban zone, whatever, but they have no decision-making powers today. Today, this decision-making power is at the Environmental Board. The local government can spend as much as it wants on all kinds of research and planning, but the Environmental Board just doesn't. Then this money is wasted, and the local government can do squats or push-ups, nothing happens, and everything stays the way it is. So the truth is in the meantime. The municipality has the right to take the initiative, but has no decision-making power. This bill would give him this discretion from the water protection zone, precisely because, as was the case yesterday, there are very different beaches in Estonia and there are such beaches where construction is not only practical at 100, 200, but perhaps at 300 to 400 metres. There are such beaches where it is in the purely local community's interest not to be built there. And if anyone marches into the realm, if they have obtained permission from the Environmental Board to build it in one way or another, then the parish will have no choice but to spread its hands. And this person is going to build whether the parish wants it or not, if there's a permit from the Environmental Board. It's the wrong approach, the decision-making point is in the wrong place. It should be in the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U353	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U354	Good President! Dear waitress, If some kind of bill proves well that arguments against emotions are difficult to obtain, then this bill certainly does. Looking also at some of the really interested municipalities in the media who might be affected by this bill, it seems to me that we are about back in the same situation as we were in the administrative reform at the time, where the municipalities were very keen on decision-making, and the central government also gave them this right when they joined, to determine with whom and under what conditions. But when the time came to agree on the name, symbolism and, above all, the centre of the municipality, it was often not possible to agree and wanted the central government to tell who and how. There's a little bit of a paradigm going through here. But the question is more this: if this draft should pass the first reading, what compromises and perhaps any additions do you see in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U355	Thank you. The first, perhaps already a necessary amendment, is that, in this case, in the case of this draft, certain terminology should be clarified, which today are different in the Nature Conservation Act and Water Act for exactly the same items. I have given an example here: a flood area and a flood-dangerous area. The second issue is that today the Water Protection Zone is 20 metres and the construction ban zone is reduced to the level of this Water Protection Zone. I consider it entirely reasonable to suggest that the same water protection zone, in fact, 20 meters from the seashore, may not be enough. I believe that it is possible that the expansion of this water protection zone, which would also include a construction ban, could be wider. I don't rule it out at all. And if we are talking about the same HELCOM agreement, which is primarily aimed at maritime defence, in the context of this HELCOM agreement, too, increasing the water protection zone could be important, not only on the seashore. I will not rule out this issue, for example, on the banks of rivers, because one of the important factors in the Baltic Sea from the point of view of pollution is precisely agricultural pollution. And agricultural pollution doesn't run directly into the sea, but we need rivers, lakes and other inland waters, where this nitrogen and phosphorus pollution mainly reaches the Baltic Sea. There are certainly other possible points of discussion, namely that concerning, for example, beach types. Because, as I have described here, there are very many types of beaches in Estonia. And possible for certain beaches could, if they are defined... This is another issue because today, for example, according to the Water Act, it is the competence of the Minister for the Environment to determine the border of a flood area or a flood risk area, at times he has done so, at times he has not. Where he has not done so, according to the law, the altitude line at a height of one metre away from the water body border is based on the altitude line. Perhaps, in the case of different beaches, the subject of this altitude line may be discussed in the same way. In the case of a flood-dangerous area, perhaps we are talking not about one metre, but about one and a half meters or two metres. Maybe. There are beaches, especially in southern Saaremaa, Läänemaa, also near Pärnu, where water can rise higher than this one metre. Maybe. This is the point of discussion. But in order to discuss it, the debate must begin. One of the things that has gone through is that if we talk about a slope of 10 meters, that's not enough. We can discuss that. If anyone wants the shoreline to be 20 metres instead of 10 meters, I think this is the point of discussion. Where are we going? What does that really mean? In this case, for example, in the case of land belonging to the state, who will ensure that the opening of the shoreline is ensured on the shores of the water bodies that have grown up? It's not a tricky thing like that. This is a matter in which all the arguments for and against should have been considered, but, as I said, in order to reach some kind of agreement, consideration must be started. If we just push it away, say, oh, God, we don't want to deal with it, the problems stay. If we are looking at Estonia's beaches and slopes today, if we are also looking at the problems that are directly related to the free movement of people and nature conservation, these problems are. They're not going anywhere, if we don't have a head under the sand or if we don't have sand, we're going to hide under this table. It's our responsibility to solve such problems. And if we just push these problems aside, we've done a bad job. But we have to find agreements, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U356	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U357	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am also in favour of reviewing the laws that are left behind in time. But I'll tell you what, I have a little more faith in the Environmental Board, although you may know a little bit more about this facility. But I have absolutely no faith in the city of Tallinn. As a native of the Tallinn City Government and the City Council, I have already run out of trust credit for the City Government, and I think that the majority may well be thanks to the fact that, if ten years ago, this possibility came that the National Audit Office could supervise the larger municipalities. What I would ask is that we take down our fears and people know that the Commission can, at any moment, leave it in a desk drawer where the debate is being discussed, or even interrupt the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U358	First, the draft must pass the first reading, then it can be discussed, then it will arrive at the second reading. How far have we come in this case, I do not rule out the need to interrupt the second reading. But on one point, I wouldn't want to agree. You are reducing the whole issue to your distrust of Tallinn's city administration. I am a resident of Tallinn, but I must admit that I do not have very many direct contacts with the Tallinn city authority, and therefore I do not know how to be on your side or against this issue of distrust concerning your city of Tallinn. But I have a very clear belief that, for example, Haapsalu, Pärnu, Tartu and many other local governments, there is no reason to feel the kind of fear that you feel in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U359	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U360	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, We still have a serious problem with corruption in the local governments, which is burning up over and over again. Those guns are burning up and spreading a horrible smell of corruption. Often, in local governments, businesses with half the council in hand are sitting and pushing their way, and who are only activated when their interests are at stake. Well, let's take Rakvere's example. With the permission of the Fatherland and the Centre Party, a person convicted of corruption sat over the deputy mayor. Well, what do you expect from there, then, right? Just that at one point, the fight of corruption comes up again. This tolerance in local governments is often very low on corruption and nothing serious is happening, but hands washes hands, and in the end, it is still in someone's best interest to build these beaches. How can we deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U361	Point one, unfortunately, what went through your question again was the construction of beaches. I am not at all sure that local governments have this kind of longing to redesign their entire home and community environment at all. As far as corruption is concerned in one municipality or another, I am not the person who can comment on it. There was a mistrust of the city of Tallinn; you show mistrust of the city of Rakvere. Once again, unfortunately only 100 kilometers from Tallinn, but information about the problems in Rakvere City, unfortunately I cannot share with you, because I am not sufficiently aware of what is happening in Rakvere. I'm sure there are people here who can tell us more about the situation in Rakvere City. But once again, coming back to this, we should, however, be guided by the fact that the right to decide is at the level where it is reasonable. And if someone violates good practices, principles that are worthy of compliance, or law, then we have legislation for that, not legislation on nature conservation, but often legislation on criminal law, which hopefully brings such people to justice and measures according to what they deserve. To take some negative examples of all this as a basis for shaping the whole country, I do not think it will take us any further. It would be about as good as looking at one thing or another that has happened and that has happened in the Republic of Estonia for more than 30 years. We cannot only rely on what is negative, but also on what is positive. We can't run the country so we're just looking at the rearview mirror. If we run the country like that, we can hit a tree. In order to manage the country, we need to be careful first and foremost. What is in the rear-view mirror must surely be remembered; it must certainly be learned. But it takes us forward to look ahead, not just to get stuck in the past. I would trust local governments, and I wouldn't try to build a big house for individual examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U362	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U363	Thanks! Good Heiki! I'm gonna try another corner. I'm trying to figure out why you're doing this law. In order to be able to build a boathouse on that beach, a bridge is not to be asked by the Environmental Board or the Ministry, but by the local government itself. Now, let's take the starting position of today's law that the construction ban zone is 200 meters. As initiators, did you also consider this option, not that we shift this construction ban zone to less than 20, but that the starting position remains the same, but, in granting this permission, it must be more right for the local government to build it closer or not, not to ask the Environmental Board or ministries, but for certain facilities, this decision-making power is more in the hands of the local authorities, but the construction ban zone is still 200 metres by default or written in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U364	Thank you. The question at this point is extremely understandable. Here we need to look at the different laws in combination. Already today, the design conditions are issued by the local government in accordance with the construction code. The building permit is granted by the local authority in the same way. It cannot do so purely because of the same 200-metre zone that it must also be approved by the Environmental Board. If we reduce this same construction ban zone to the level of the water protection zone, then in fact this need for the approval of the Environmental Board will disappear if the local authority is certain of this decision. Then call it a separate construction ban zone would be such a pure mimikri, because in essence the same decision-making power is exercised by the local government in the rest of the municipality's territory today. It's just local government law is being extended. And to set out some kind of zone or whatever it would be pretend, it wouldn't have content. But basically, it would be the same thing you put forward in your question. Yes, in this same area, the rights of local authorities are increasing, simply not to be called a construction ban zone anymore. In such a case, the content of the construction ban zone simply disappears and it recedes at the border of the same water protection zone. But as I said, how wide this water protection zone is, what the Water Act determines, it could be the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U365	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U366	Dear waitress, Good meeting manager! I have such a question that perhaps, since this debate here has gone very long, that maybe it has already been asked, I admit honestly, I have not followed the whole negotiation or the whole report thoroughly. But I'd like to ask you, did you look at any international experience during the preparation of this bill, maybe here from the neighbors in the north, from the north, from the Finns, from the Swedes. How have they solved it? I understand they have a different shore, there's granite and stuff, and maybe you don't have to worry about the shore being washed away. They might have a different way of solving it a little bit. But still, with that in mind, you have some kind of international comparison, or are we really inventing these regulations on our own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U367	We're not inventing anything on our own. And probably, since I assume that the sea is not a stranger to you, you have also reached Finland and Sweden by sea, and you should also be familiar with the other way around, that is what the established practice in these countries is, we have seen. And to talk about the fact that Finns and Swedes, who have practically built several of their houses and cottages in the water, are somehow different than Estonians, that Estonians are one of the most extraordinary tyrants, and that their first goal is to immediately start to ravage the Baltic Sea, I think there is no reason for this attitude. We follow practice and practice there is this and I see no reason why our practice could not be similar to theirs in rational areas. After all, we set them as examples in many ways, and then we take it from them, learning from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U368	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U369	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is such a softer one, but it is also very important from the country's perspective. When you look at the latest studies, the OECD study on which I rely, it says that people living in Finland are happier in the world. When we look at Finland, somehow it's always cute to drive there and think that how cute, all the moose's are so by the water. Is it really perhaps one of the reasons that people are happy? As the initiator of the draft, how could this draft affect the happiness of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U370	Thank you. Now that's quite a nut. I can't say exactly what makes a person happy. I know what makes me happy. Let's say having a house by the sea doesn't make me happier or worse, all the more reason I don't have one. I'm not planning on it. But I don't know how big, but certainly one component is that the state doesn't come to prick, teach, punish or stick its nose everywhere and trusts its citizens more. It seems to me that during this 30 years of development, the Estonian state has increasingly started to lose confidence in its citizens. This same discussion shows that we do not trust local governments, we do not trust people. And if the state doesn't trust its citizens, that's a very bad sign. If the country trusts more, I think it is a very important basis for people to feel happy in this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U371	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U372	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! This question has been asked a lot either way, but maybe we should go over it. The draft was initiated and presented by four members of the Riigikogu from different political groups, which shows that not only interest but also the need to change something existed. At the same time, the opposition is very great and I therefore ask whether it was not intended to take on more supporters from the Riigikogu. And second: have you walked on the beaches of Estonia and stopped suddenly, because there is a fence or a ditch or an evil dog in front of you, and you can't get any further? Today, in the light of today's law. That's two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U373	Thank you. Let's start from the back. I've been walking, I've seen it. My first encounter with this brutal approach took place on the coast of North Estonia, where Viktor Kaasik, a well-known attorney-at-law of the house, had built without any permission, with the sign "Kallasrada 10 meters, watch out, evil dog!'. Awesome, isn't it? I walked through there, of course. I didn't see an evil dog. But somehow I don't think that dog would have had a good time if he had come to bother us there. But the dog was probably smart and didn't come. I have spoken about this before, as I believe it was in 2002, when we were driving with the people of the Environmental Inspectorate at the time, I did not travel along the whole trip, but a significant part of it was driven through the entire coast of the mainland-Estonian Baltic Sea. And that kind of violations were noted, and a lot of them, I really can't tell you the statistics by heart now, but anyway, the plan was that all those things that were found would be disposed of. Unfortunately, there are an enormous number of such cases of non-compliance. On the one hand, I am trying to understand the Environmental Board, because every violation like this, taken separately, isn't who knows what revolution in the world and contributes to the resource and go to dismantle it all, that's, sorry for the expression, work. And this work, unfortunately, should be done quite a lot on Estonian beaches. I very much hope that, when the burden of granting all kinds of permits to the Environmental Board is reduced, they will have more resources to deal with existing infringements, because the existing law, too, has not, unfortunately, led to all these legal requirements being met. There are those who totally violate the existing law, and the local government today is more of a bystander in all of this. This bill would also increase the responsibility of the local government in managing these coastal areas and through the sense of local authorities and local people that it is their municipality, decisions are made here. Not what it would be... Very often it's like usual, where the answer is that I do, I support it, but they do. Well, their attitude is what often reduces the civil initiative. Signing a petition is awesome. Doing daily work to make this beach truly clean is another matter. It's a real job. This bill will help with this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U374	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U375	Good manager! Honourable waitress! If a bill comes before the Riigikogu and is signed there, the aim is usually to do something good for the people of Estonia, improve the economic situation and support entrepreneurship. Can you tell me when you came up with the idea of this bill and the three other members of the Riigikogu signed it, whether this idea existed before, whether there was a situation that needed to be corrected, or what was the reason for the purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U376	Thank you. I mean, it's almost time to let go of the song. No, it's not a new idea. And this thought has lived in me since I was Minister of the Environment and from the same, perhaps in 2002, the phenomenon that is actually happening on the Estonian coast. At that time there was even more absurd regulation, namely that the Minister directly authorised the construction of a construction ban zone. That was even more ridiculous. The Minister alone was able to decide whether Jüri or Jaan could build closer to the shore or not. All this regulation at the time seemed ridiculous to me, but I've also apologized to the remote yesterday that at the time it wasn't a priority number one for me. I memorized it, and after coming back here for almost 20 years, I notice that everything is exactly the same. Nothing's changed. And, of course, I also discussed this with my colleagues from the Committee on the Environment. And this bill is not, so to speak, my birth, but rather the result of a collective debate. And what makes it better is that the decision-making right that is taking place on the beach of my home village and on the territory of my municipality of residence, that this decision-maker is indeed the person to whom I vote in the local elections, not that someone somewhere far away and far away, who, by the way, is not even elected and who has no responsibility to the voters, is decided by that person. This bill brings the whole decision-making process closer to people, makes it easier to understand. And that is the greatest advantage of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U377	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U378	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! It is very good that this bill has brought a very sharp discussion back on the agenda in society. It only needs to be welcomed, things can be opened up properly again, and problems can also be brought to the attention. But what you're about to say right now is that you're saying it's a good thing if the decision-making level is brought closer to people, or local government level. Yeah, I totally agree. As a principle, it's really good. But basically, this responsibility, which comes with it, is said by quite a lot of people with great experience of self-government here, including local governments in this Chamber, long-term leaders, that local authorities are not well prepared for this responsibility here. What do you think of that? How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U379	If there really is a municipality that says that it is not ready for this, it does not want to make decisions on this subject, it is regrettable. But he's got a great way out of it. Then he won't do anything. And if he does nothing, then nothing will change, and everything will remain as it is today, except that this local authority that is doing nothing is, I very much hope, that this is a hypothetical example, and that we in Estonia do not have to fear that someone who has received permission from the Environmental Board to build a building ban zone will come through the door, and the local government has simply been put in front of the fact. So for them, too, I repeat, to hypothetical governments who want nothing to do, even their lives are getting worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U380	Jüri Jaanson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U381	Yes, to continue: indeed, it can be considered hypothetical or not, but this opinion has nevertheless been expressed by people with experience of managing a large local government. And from a person's perspective, from a normal person's perspective, he's, let's say, a walker on a shoreline. From the point of view of the whole construction ban zone and nature conservation, there is no choice but to trust the municipality or trust the state. That's the question. Currently, it is the competence of the state to decide to build in a construction ban zone, the competence of the Environmental Board. If this were done by the local government, would it do better or worse? Would the right of people to walk on shorelines be better protected or not? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U382	Here again is a virtually philosophical question. The question is which country we are building, at which level decisions are taken: whether they are taken at the level of an individual, a municipality or a state. We are obviously not arguing that decisions on external security and internal security should be taken at national level. We are not likely to dispute that it is reasonable to make very many decisions at local government level. But often we tend to forget that a lot of things in this country should be based on the common sense of the individual. And individual rights should be limited only if justified. The focus of this bill doesn't go so wide, and we don't look at things that much. The focus of this draft focuses primarily on whether permitting construction is like the law of a State or is a local law on the territory of that municipality. I am convinced that this falls under the rights that could have been decided at local level, and beyond those areas where, in the interests of the state, either a protected area has been established, some protection rules have been laid down, for example, security restrictions have been imposed, for example, in border areas or whatever. These things, which go beyond national interests, could be up to the local authorities. By the way, several nature conservation decisions can also be very clear at local government level. We have talked a lot about the so-called KAH areas defined by RMK today, or elevated public interest fish. And it has been recalled that the term "forests" is excluded from the law. I am convinced that this term of 'defence forests' must be restored, and this is one of the elements of nature conservation that should also be taken on the initiative of the local government. Just as the Nature Conservation Act states today, the local government can also create a protected area of local importance. I do not know that this practice is very broad, but it is an area where the local government should take on more. Because, unfortunately, if we do not grant rights, there can be no responsibility on the part of local governments. The obligation to take responsibility for all of this can only come when we have granted the respective rights to local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U383	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U384	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I am not an idealist to say that there could be no problems in any local government, well also in dealing with this issue. But regrettably, it has often been hard to measure all the municipalities according to the so-called most problematic municipality, i.e. the lowest level. In my opinion, this screaming injustice is precisely about progressive governments and reminds the Russian army, which measured everyone by this average level, at about the sixth grade. Is that so, and should we try to change that practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U385	Changing this practice is nowhere else than just in our own heads. It's true, yeah, if there's some kind of set, like this or different, they're going to try to find some common denominator. However, in such situations, the lowest common denominator shall be used. By the end of the day, it will bring down such better results, because if you are treated according to the lowest possible standard, the initiative will be lost, self - respect will be lost, pride will disappear over what you have done or could have done. Because if you're constantly being compared to something you'd like to remove yourself from, and you're told you're the same as hell. It's in our heads, and our heads need to change that attitude. If it doesn't, well, do we start looking for the lowest common denominator in this hall? It's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U386	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U387	Good manager! Honourable waitress! I'm reading this bill, and it says local government, not to write anything else down. You mentioned before that people have chosen. The people choose the council. The members of the same council choose the municipality government. In most cases, the building permit is granted by the municipality government, not by the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U388	Yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U389	There has been no mention in this draft that these decisions should be taken by the Council in these cases. If he falls within the jurisdiction of the parish government, most of the council members know nothing about it, at best no one knows about the coalition partners. The opposition's if they bother to read the drafts they put in the parish government, but you can't say the word. Should it not also have been clear in this draft that if we wanted to bring the people closer, these decisions would also be made at the local council?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U390	Interesting line of thought. If this draft remains in the process, I think that bringing decisions of this kind to the level of the council may be a completely weighty amendment, because it is indeed a decision that concerns the entire local community. I would clearly not rule out such an approach. However, if you say that only the local government is here, and today there is the municipal government of the decision-maker, and so on, we can discuss constitutional issues after this debate, how the constitution defines the local government. And neither is this parish government, as God has given it, but he does put the local council in place, and the council will decide the electorate. So I think the correlation between the municipal government and the electorate is, unfortunately, completely direct. But to bring certain decisions, to bring certain decisions maybe more so-called wider debate is, by the way, exceptionally well in line with the same HELCOM agreement that was sometimes referred to. It also refers to local opinion that such decisions can take place. Thanks, that was a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U391	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U393	Yes, please! It is now time to listen to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. Deputy Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U394	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the bill for the waitress Heiki! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, this bill was initiated on 8 November and by four members of the Riigikogu. On 11 January this year, the Committee on the Environment came to the proceedings. Peeter Ernits, Kaido Hööhlson, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravchenko, Lauri Läänemets were present at this meeting in place of Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ms Malleus, Mr Metsoja and Mr Timo Suslov. Taimo Aasma, Head of Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, was also invited. In this sitting, decisions were also taken, which I will read to you immediately. Propose to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 25 January. The decision was consensual. And secondly, to propose that the first reading be completed, in favour of 5, against 2 and with 1 abstention. Appointing me as the representative of the commission, Andres Metsoja. Before I go to the discussion and presentation in committee, I think it is right to straighten out a few things that are directly related to this draft and which have already been discussed in this Chamber. One very important nuance actually concerns the decision of the 2000 Saaremaa Council, where the Saaremaa Council has proposed to the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu to reduce the construction ban zone over 100 metres in Saaremaa. This has officially been the position of the Saaremaa Council. And as we know, it is precisely in the islands and in Narva-Jõesuu that the restriction on construction ban is greater than 200 metres. In addition to everything, the National Audit Office has carried out an audit on the topics of shorelines in 2015. I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu read it and take a look at whether the radical legal space restriction that has been in place today has somehow contributed to ensuring its public interest. I'm sure you'll find important ideas there. And there would certainly also be a reference to the Chancellor of Justice, because the Chancellor of Justice has, in turn, spoken about a restriction, which is also linked to the construction ban zone. It's about the flood area. The debate has actually been about whether the construction ban zone and the flood area, which are recurrent, should be treated separately so that one ends and the other starts, or should be treated in parallel together. That, in my opinion, is also quite important. Before going to this debate in the Commission, I still want to emphasise, in the context of the development of this legal space in the past, that the coastal and shore restrictions have been taken over by us from the Soviet period, in 1995 they have been incorporated into legislation in principle, and in 1995-2004 the Coastal and Coast Guard Act was in force, where it was unambiguously established that the construction ban zone is 50 metres and 100 metres in scattered areas. The exceptions were already mentioned by the islands and Narva-Jõesuu with 200. The Nature Protection Act, which we are talking about today, has been in force since 2004. In addition to the restrictions on construction ban zones, additional flood zones have been introduced. In addition, the definition of a line of the same height of one metre. Let it be said that the flood zone border may be from 20 meters to 200 metres and beyond, which is added to the construction ban zone. In addition, the term that forest areas bordering the beach must remain untouched by the saw. Perhaps there are actually many cases where the construction ban zone, the flood area and the forest bring together a group where the owner is not really able to do anything. But now to this debate in the Commission. Mr Kranich has already made a rather good overview and it is difficult to point out something separate from the Commission's debate, which, in the Commission's view, could not or could not be dealt with more separately. Perhaps it is important to point out that it has also been said repeatedly in the Commission that this draft does not plan in any way to reword the concept of shoreline or to lose the shoreline. It has to be said that the criticism of the construction of this beaches and the lack of impact analysis are formulated by Heiki Kranich: the drafters see the role of the local government in the first place, however, in such a way that the coastal areas are not viewed as a patchwork or only as a nature conservation community, which is actually carried out today largely through the Environmental Board, the Environmental Board has a duty to look at the limits of nature reserves, but we very much see that the local government, as a promoter of local life, must look at the whole at the level of planning. He must look at the access, he must look at the building areas, whether they are reasonable to create a place that leads to the collection of waste water, which will lead to the construction of wells, which may lead to a change in the whole greening environment, until such time as to ensure that this shoreline is not in the garden. Perhaps it was further explained that the master plan must be the document or the part-plan of the master plan must be the document used to play through the areas where the building can be built. Let it be said that the drafters do not in any way restrict nature conservation and its importance. This draft does not in any way concern areas with restrictions on nature conservation. There is and remains a dominant influence on the Environmental Board, which decides what is in these areas and what is not in these areas. However, it should change that if the general plan is played through building areas and the general plan is a council level document, then the Environmental Board can also play a part in it. And he can make his assessment of the overall plan, the next step in the detailed plan, and thus, in fact, this instrument must be ensured that the local community is involved. The other side, which certainly does not call into question by the drafters, is water protection. Perhaps people must be protected and water protected. Both have their own solutions. After all, the general plan has introduced those provisions which state how high the first floor must be, so that there is no danger to the human living environment, living conditions and life, but the other way round it cannot be overlooked that the aquatic environment must also be protected. That is why we do not see in any way that the water protection zone as such is irrelevant. Yoko Alender asked what would then have a possible negative impact on the natural environment, as set out in the explanatory memorandum. He also said that he felt that the scope of the restrictions could change drastically. He examined how the views of the Baltic Sea Environment Protection Commission HELCOM were consistent with the effects of the draft law. Heiki Kranich replied that when looking at HELCOM's partner countries, HELCOM's recommendations would not be taken into account. And the claim that the activities proposed by the draft law are the greatest threat to the Baltic Sea living environment is certainly wrong. He also mentioned that the coastal and shore construction ban zones provided for in the Nature Conservation Act are being harmonised with the Water Protection Zone and are a restriction on ownership, which the drafters consider to be of no nature conservation concern. The speaker was wondering what would change after the bill was passed. At the moment, the local authority is responsible for building permits, permits, planning and impact assessments. He asked where the message came from that the beach area should expect a different competence. And he added that it is difficult to assess the effects of the draft and gave an example in the context of the Pärnu city cow project. It has to be said that the restoration of coastal meadows has been a priority in the city of Pärnu, based on environmental aspects. Most people love these cute mountain cattle, which restore coastal areas, so that birds can nest there. However, this has been accompanied by a problem that could not be foreseen, namely the widespread problem of water pollution. And now, in turn, the next problem has been solved, that if you go in and get involved in the habitat on the beach meadows, it actually happens that it is precisely this water that brings this stool into the water at some point and that, in turn, it creates problems where the beaches need to be closed. Heiki Kranich replied that this bill would give more responsibility and rights to the local government. And that was the brief summary. Yoko Alender asked how this business could change for the citizen. Should the local authority assess the effects in the course of the general plans or when handling each project application separately? He examined whether the municipalities had been analysed in the context of possible flooding of near-coastal buildings. Heiki Kranich replied that there are several types of beaches in Estonia, where the conditions for construction are very different, also different from neighbouring countries, and the authorisation for construction in a construction ban zone should not be the sole right of the Minister for the Environment, as it once was. He said that construction in the smaller islands of Estonia must strike a balance with the natural environment. And the local authority is competent to decide on the impact of the floods caused by climate change. Peeter Ernits noted that the draft initiated by the members of the Riigikogu cannot require in-depth impact analyses and coordination circles; it simply cannot be achieved. He said that he had doubts about the ability of local authorities to process general plans, and this was the only weak point in the draft law that would require further information to liquidate. He said he felt too much going on with nature conservation. The draft takes a step back towards creating a balance between man and the natural environment. Yoko Alender also asked if the definition of flood area would disappear from the law. That's what we were talking about. Heiki Kranich replied that the flood area would not disappear. Now that we were involved with Taimo Aasma, Head of the Nature Conservation Department from the Ministry of the Environment. He also gave a brief overview and said that the key issue was the size of the local government's role in deciding within the overall plan. The interests of both the state and local government are at stake here. He said that the Environment Agency had been asked to make beach and shore data extracts that would open the bill and said that they should be received by the end of next week. We basically got these today. We received such data that, if only the seaside section is taken into account, the data base from which this extract was made seems to be different from the land and islands. In the construction ban zone of islands, 62% overlap with protected natural objects and 59% in the mainland, so that the answer is also how often the problem is that everyone is now being built full and there is an enormous pressure of real estate, I stress that in both cases the circle 60% of Estonia's territory, the coastal area is already covered by various environmental restrictions, where nothing can be done. In this regard, there is not yet really municipal or state land, which is apparently not subject to any private interest in building beach areas. And it's statistics we're probably still getting. What did the Environmental Board, the Ministry of the Environment, think about the draft, and what did the Ministry of Finance think? Regarding this bill, the Ministry of Finance thought that the municipalities could still carry out this task. The competence of the local government was questioned, as if the beach area is something very mysterious, even though nothing changes significantly in the planning arrangements, and we do not even assign any additional tasks to the locals in the context of the planning law. The Ministry of the Environment said this subject needed a debate. This issue needs to be discussed, because there have been changes in the area at all times, rather in the context of coastal areas being amplified in the context of restrictions, as it has already been said here, that there is a water protection zone, there is a restriction on forest areas that cannot be harvested, and there is a further ban on construction, not to mention that there are constant contacts with illegal buildings and their liquidation. The Government of the Republic did not give its assessment of this bill. So this is a short summary. I hope all the important questions have been crossed, but if something's wrong, I'm ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U395	And these [questions] are. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U396	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The members of the Riigikogu have received a letter, we have all received it, but I will read to you: "As it is possible to close the shoreline in the event of overriding private interest, the reduction of the construction ban zone provided for in the draft and the resulting possibility of building buildings within 10 to 20 metres from the shore will in future also give a very clear and strong argument for the physical closure of the shoreline. In addition, it is very easy to create a feeling of uninvited guests for the users of shorelines using buildings that have risen only 10 to 20 metres away. " It is still written here that even if there is no physical limit and if it is marked as private property, for example, the lawn has been mowed or there are some barbecue stuff on it and so on and so forth. My question is, aren't you afraid that such a thing will happen if your bill is enforced as a law, and that control still disappears.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U397	Thank you. It's not like there's nothing to worry about in society. The problems associated with the trails are reflected over and over again. The Committee on the Environment is also reflected, both individually and collegiately. Every citizen's concern is justified to deal with it. Now, as far as this topic is concerned, whether we have shorelines in good condition at all, whether they are passable, I agree with you that our shorelines are often in a very poor position and not because of human intervention, but in fact these shorelines are not maintained in any way. There is also no guarantee of crossings, for example, if there is a ditch or a small river. That is a completely separate question when we are talking about the permeability of the shoreline. I have personally had a very good experience of building a shoreline on my land, based on environmental requirements. It is a rocking bridge where environmental people say very clearly that this shore must be protected, it is a Natura site. Turning to the Environmental Board to do this, I learned that expanding the shoreline as a tableway, for example, requires an overall plan And, of course, as members of the community, we are not going to make such a move that we are going to plan the positions in detail on the shoreline, which is the right of every man. But that was the point of view of the Environmental Board. Why did we really want to, and why were we forced to negotiate with them? That path was already there, we wanted to reconstruct it. But our goal was to extend this path by 20 centimeters so that it could also travel with a baby carriage and a wheelchair. Unfortunately, two ministries of industry are unable to cooperate with each other, and the result was that we built this path with our own costs and letters, including KIC support funds. And the first speech I received was from the House of Disabled People in Pärnumaa, its leader called and said that a person with my position could think a little bit more about people with disabilities in society. Look, I think this is a drastic example. We need to look for a common part between its owner, its public space and the parties in charge of this area. I am very much inclined to do so, and for those people who are in contact with the same issue of shoreline development, for example, I admit that I, too, personally, am offended by this behaviour. I'm willing to give you my property for free. I've calculated there's every man's right. If I want to make it the so-called normal conditions that the environment requires, I'm between the cogs. Moreover, if I want this shoreline to go beyond my land, for example, to the state land which is part of RMK, then I cannot use this shoreline in any way other than under the State Property Act. If I want to put those two or three planks down there, I'm gonna draw up all the projects, run the procedure, and finally pay the state rent for this path to be on the ground. In my opinion, these are paradoxical situations where we cannot find synergies in protecting nature and dealing with property restrictions. We are moving away from this objective, and I think that this will not be solved in any way by the intervention of the Environmental Inspectorate, but must be resolved now and now in this Chamber, to discuss what these solutions would be to find this common part. It is not possible to pass local governments on this issue. We can't go past the local government. He is the closest partner, who must also be accountable to the community, to the public for the public use of the water body that is there. Its shoreline would be publicly available and accessible. It is not a narrow question of building where to build and how much to build, but it is a question of planning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U398	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U399	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Andres! I've been on the council for a quarter of a century, but we have a shoreline that is specific, which is regulated by other laws, so maybe I just don't get it here. We're talking about handing over power from the Environmental Board to the municipality, aren't we? But doesn't the current regulation mean that if you're going to build something, you're going to have to make a detailed plan, and at every three stages of the council, the local council is going to take a decision, then you're going to have to apply to the local government for a building permit, authorisation, what the hell knows? Doesn't that mean that the local government, if it wants to, already has that control? I don't see it any other way. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U400	Yeah, thanks! The problem is that individual cases are being dealt with. Individual cases may then be either the design conditions or the planning process process. The planning may be either general planning or general planning. He is often changing the overall plan because the general plans are old and new are being prepared. If the master plan is a changing detail plan, then it will also go to state supervision, in any case the state will review the Ministry of Finance at this end, in the old days the county elders did it, today the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance will do it and give its assessment. In the same way, the detailed plan is given its approval, approval, the relevant department, is then the Rescue Board, is the Health Board, it is then the Environmental Board, according to the way it should be. The problem is even more complicated, Mr Stalnukhin. In fact, today's planning law also provides an opportunity to go past the overall planning with the issuing of design conditions. And it has also been before a court and the court has judged that only a legitimate subject, in principle the person who is a border neighbour, has the right of appeal. And I see that this is also a very weak place to unravel this whole bunch. This is problematic because, indeed, here the fear of local authorities may be justified, that what this general plan means today is, it should be an agreement with the community, but it can be changed by design conditions, and it has been done in Estonia and is being done more and more. This is once again where I think we should look at each other in this Chamber and ask what is going on. But that does not mean that we cannot go ahead with this issue and deal with it. Now, as far as the overall planning process is concerned, the same question you ask is that what is now fundamentally changing. Today, the so-called norm for processing in a construction ban zone and the right to the Environmental Board have been granted in order to pursue and protect environmental interests. Environmental interests. If a detailed plan is initiated, this whole procedure will actually take place from the outset under the discretion of the local government. If this is a "pair" of nature conservation, then in fact a legal person governed by private law does not even have the right to plan or manage, it must surrender it to the local government. If it is in a construction ban zone, it does not have to be done, a plan is launched, environmental impacts are being processed, environmental impacts assessed, ex-ante assessments are carried out, and when this plan is essentially ready, everything has been completed, it will be sent to the Environmental Board for coordination. Perhaps in my opinion, in essence, this process is flawed and wrong, in fact, things have to be resolved in the course of the work, not when a document is completed. And basically, it has to be reversed that the local government takes responsibility, and in the end it actually involves the respective authorities in the organisation of local life. Because we have to work for who? We still have to work for the citizen who is interested in accessing the shoreline, whether he has any interest in developing economic activity in his country, and this needs to be considered, but it cannot be done anywhere else than in the local government. According to my understanding, we may question today's 20-metre limit on this draft. We can talk it one way and the other way, maybe it makes sense to go back to the arrangement that was in the Beach and Coast Protection Act, 100 meters and 50 meters, right, 100 scattered, 50 meters densely populated. This is all like the place of negotiations, which we can do in the draft procedure, which is right, which is as if it were fair, but to miss the fact that we do not trust the local authority that we do not really want to apply the local authority as a responsible authority in these matters is, in my opinion, ideologically wrong and ambiguity-creating in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U401	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U402	Thank you. Well, I'm at this age where you realize you can't trust anyone, you need to personally check everything to make sure everything's okay. I have a very brief question. Is it possible, Andres, that on the shoreline all these planning processes, operating permits, building permits and all other processes are carried out in such a way that the local government, the local council are completely out of this process? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U403	Thank you. In today's case, if the local government, for example, is approached by the owner of a plot on the river's shore, he says that I would like to make myself a small sauna there, then, of course, the first place he goes is the local government. A perfectly logical move. He goes to the local government, the local government tells him that we have an obligation to start a strategic environmental assessment. It already sounds very difficult for a human being, for a common citizen. The citizen immediately wonders what this is, whether or not a lawyer should be involved now. The wealthier people involve a lawyer who drags this process, the less wealthy people give up and say that he is not going to deal with it, or he is going to do it illegally. Whether a neighbor complains or not, and if someone flies over with a drone, that's what life shows. And if it's been negotiated that it's going to assess these environmental impacts, because it's absolutely necessary action, then it can go back to the local government, but the local government will definitely say, look, if we even start this process, this detailed plan, then you have to understand that the final word is on the Environmental Board. These red lines, which are on your map, are protected by the law, and whether the environmental officer, as the result of this process, finds any references in the course of this plan, in the course of impact assessment, that is their exclusive right. And then it depends on whether or not they're reducing the construction ban zone. In principle, the process that follows is where the transaction partner, the planner, who carries out these operations, will be drawn up in and out of analysis until, at one point, it returns to the municipality again. The municipality will make the plan public. Once made public, the coordination shall take place. Goes through the whole package until it's established. And at one stage, we also need to ask the Environment Board's position as to whether or not the construction ban zone will be reduced. That depends on it. It no longer depends on the local government itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U404	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U405	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm going to read a few more lines from this address. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal is deeply misleading in describing the effects; it is an amendment to the law that allows for major changes in our landscape, which requires professional and comprehensive analysis and public debate. Today's draft does not strike a balance between nature, public values and the interests of a small part of property developers, but creates conditions for significant damage to natural values and for limiting the availability of public goods. I don't know if you've thought about it. I think it is quite a good idea for those who turn around to need a public debate and, of course, an impact analysis of the ideas set out in this draft. It is very difficult for many here in the Riigikogu Hall to create a clear picture for themselves, if there is no impact analysis. There is a debate here, like a word against a word right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U406	Thank you. Look, good questioner Heljo Pikhof, we're not changing the planning law. If some people question the legal force of the planning law and the power of inclusion, they have the right to do so. As the initiator of our draft, it is not disputed that the planning law is today such as to create confusion rather than offer a solution. The initiators of the draft act are the belief that beach areas, just like the city centre area, just like settlements, as with various plans, such as Pärnu County, have been initiated by Mr Jüri Ratas, which goes out to Kurgjan and deals with these plans. Whether it is done on the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, it is done on the initiative of the local government, but we will never question the fact that this planning, this topic of local inclusion, the contribution and coordination of different institutions, is somehow destructive to society. I think it must be an instrument that integrates society, represents different interests. And that is precisely what is being included in our draft in order to map out the interests of the planning process. If the municipality says that it has no interest in mapping out these coastal areas, planning through them, it is also acceptable, but this is probably estimated by the electorate in the local elections. That's the social debate. We have to say in this Chamber that there is no problem, if even the Ministry of the Environment says that the subject needs a debate, I find it short-sighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U407	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U408	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Heljo Pikhof asked you about this public interest and, in fact, about the impact analysis, but you started talking about a specific law. Yesterday I was sitting here, listening to this debate and participating. The author's argument was this: it changes the principles, radically these legal logics. And he said here that it has a very big impact. Then there was this debate here, and I understood it, and I also read that it has a very big impact. It actually reduces the possibilities of expressing the public interest and, in other ways, also reduces the rights of individuals and the possibility of walking along certain shorelines. In this sense, this is a fundamental change. And such great things should come through the government, because then there will be public involvement and evaluation. Please tell me why it hasn't been done. Is this the reason that the Ministry of the Environment did not really support this draft in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U409	Thank you. That's not true. First, this public interest analysis. What's a public interest analysis? I just want to understand what public interest analysis is like. Public interest is a fundamental concept that is reflected in the need for the public and in the right to legislate to express their freedoms in a region. Public interest as such. And I cannot imagine very well how we should analyse the public interest in this draft. If we say very clearly that we will see that issues will be resolved in the future through the planning process, which is a purely public process, there is probably no more public process in Estonia than general planning, certain thematic planning, detailed planning and processing, and we would like to see precisely that this interest is wider than one property, wider than one particular house that wishes to build something in a coastal area, a construction ban zone. We want the local government to plan through the access road in the bud, the very question of this shoreline. How are they gonna get on that cliff? Is it just water or really going through someone's yard, private property, or is it guaranteed public access, where everyone can go and doesn't feel harassed? That's the interest, and it's completely public. This can be considered in social terms, in nature conservation and in economic terms, with this very document of planning. This cannot be considered in the context of the law, because the Estonian coastal area is so diverse, these cases are so diverse that it is not possible to do so with such a wide shovel. I hope I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U410	Yeah. No further questions. Thank you! It's time to open negotiations. As usual at first reading, the representatives of the political groups and the committees will get the floor. And first, as a representative of the political groups, by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Kalvi Tõvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U411	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for a very important matter. And the one thing is that by bringing this bill to this hall, we once again saw how much the Estonian people respect this public space on the beach, respect the shoreline. This was expressed by all the dozens of organisations who wrote to us, who were concerned that this bill would be such a quiet and sneaky beach privatization, where the beach and shoreline would become someone's courtyard and the passage would be difficult. Yes, the initiators in this Chamber explained, and quite convincingly, in some respects, that this is not the case. But in the case of such broad public-interest drafts, we Social Democrats expect a very close negotiation with interest groups to take place. And there's nothing to do. Today, this power is on the government. If this bill had come from the government, had been the circles of engagement, had been behind the analyses, then perhaps we would have looked at the bill and gone deeper into it. But today we can't support it. It's important to us that people go to the beach. It is important to us that this public space and that our beaches be no one's courtyards. So short talk, concrete: the Social Democrats are proposing to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U412	Aivar Viidik on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U413	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and the good initiators of the draft. I immediately admit that I am here on behalf of the Group, the Reform Party Group, but we do not have a common position on this draft, nor, which we certainly do not have, have any reservations or reproach on the draft. I am here, which is why I am largely elected as an ambassador from the West Estonia region, and maybe I am talking about the problems in this region. I am also quite sure that we actually have the opportunity to find a solution on this subject, and I will propose one solution here after a while. First of all, the idea of a bill. I think there are two things. First of all, really this ideological approach to giving local governments more say, more decision-making in these matters. The second is to move the current construction ban zone closer than it is currently provided for in the Nature Conservation Act. But before going into the analysis of this particular draft, I would also like to remind myself of the joint statement of the Saaremaa Vallavolikogu in December 2020. Andres Metsoja here referred to a nuance, but I think there's another one. And indeed, the proposal was for the Ministry and also for the Riigikogu to reduce the 200-metre construction ban zone on the islands to 100 metres. But the second problem here was also that since the islands then, due to shore, the waterline is very far away in summer and very close in autumn and spring, it is difficult to define this single specific boundary from which the specific construction area begins. Indeed, at present, the Nature Conservation Act states that the restriction, the restriction of a construction ban zone, is to be taken into account in the basic map. However, there is, which now concerns this part, that a greater role for municipalities. I want to, I have been in the municipality for some time, and I actually want to say and state that the municipalities have the right to reduce the construction ban zone, even at the moment. And how? That it can be done in two ways. There's one with a master plan. I looked through my home region, Hiiumaa's so-called old rural municipalities, at the moment of the current general plans, where, in many places, for example, a specific region has been explicitly introduced, that in this region from point A to point B, the construction ban zone has been reduced to 100 metres, 150 metres, and has been introduced in the second general plan with specific signs, landmarks, where this area has so much reduction and so much and so much. Maybe that has actually been absolutely possible right now. The second thing is how it's possible. In the general parameters, indeed, there is a detailed plan that changes the overall plan, which is indeed then... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U414	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U415	... which is in this sense a more complex process, that there is also the Environmental Board, which must give its consent. But the principle is, once again, possible. What can't be supported is definitely that we're turning 200 meters into 20 meters. This reduction is certainly too much, but I think we are all ready for a discussion to bring the islands into an equal position with the other mainland Estonia, the mainland of the seaside mainland Estonia and to reduce the construction ban zone, I would say, to up to 100 metres. And I certainly personally believe that this could be done by the municipality, the local government. But I certainly believe that this should be done with a general plan, not every property would be traded separately with the municipality. It is, I would say, a rather dangerous initiative. But now a quick word from the waterline. Here, too, there is actually a solution. And here's the solution. As an example, a new general plan for Hiiumaa has been drawn up in the form of a basic survey on the definition of the boundary of the flooded area and the specification of the construction ban zone. And it actually defines us, gives us an objective waterline, from which it is very easy to measure this construction ban area. That I would like to emphasise once again that these tools are actually in place now, but if we need a discussion to equalise the islands of West Estonia with other, mainland Estonia and give the local government more justice, then I am ready for this and I hope we too, but in this case we should actually initiate this draft in a slightly new form and do it in a slightly different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U416	Henn Põllaas, would you like a speech? Speak up, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been discussing this bill for two days now, much has been said, much has been asked, so I am not going to waste your time for long, we still have a large number of drafts ahead of us today. But I would like to clarify one thing. This bill has two signatures under it. Now that we're working on it here. The Conservative People's Party Group has also thoroughly examined and discussed this draft; we do not support its adoption. We propose that this draft be rejected, and this proposal has already been handed over in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U418	That's right. Heiki Hepner on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U419	Ladies and gentlemen, This is undeniable when you look at the length of the debate and the length of the debate, the complex issue, and you could also say that it is a hot issue. Let it be said right here, as an introduction, that the Fatherland Group did not shape a common position, but I would like to highlight the principles and concepts in the light of this law, which simply cannot be overlooked. The draft is undeniably ambitious as it tries to resolve property rights and restrictions on property rights in such a way as to ensure the protection of natural and environmental values and the rational use of natural resources. Personally, I'm very much a municipal religion. I believe they will manage, I believe they will be fair and honest and will not deceive their people. And even if it does... I am not an idealist in the sense that there are no problems in local governments, but we cannot measure the lowest level for all local governments. Regrettably, this attitude has also existed in this Chamber in previous years, where we measure the lowest value for local governments. There is also an undisputed need to bear in mind what the municipality, well, let us say, must do in national or public activities. Bureaucracy costs have also been what we mention, if not on a daily basis, quite often in this remote area and, at least in words, we try to reduce them in order to make sure that this scarce money, tax money can be used most effectively, even in order to protect our nature and the environment. The second key issue is parliamentary debate. Here, too, the previous speakers stated that, since this bill has not come from the government, it should be voted out. Perhaps if the government has not come from, the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. I categorically oppose this principle. We will not be able to resolve any issues unless we hold a debate. But the essence of the debate on one law really is, in fact, you know it much better than I think, who has been here for a long time, there is a second reading, a procedure in the Commission before second reading, and a second reading in this Chamber. We, true, have had a very long round of questions and answers at first reading, it has also been possible for each ambassador to ask two questions, and the initiators of the draft have also answered it quite long and comprehensively. But only political groups and committees have the right to speak if the Commission wants it to. But the second reading is where it would be possible to bring different arguments, meet different stakeholders, gather and form this joint part and look for a substantive solution, express your views in speeches, do lobbying in the hallways in a good way. This is actually the essence of the creation of this law. And today we say no, it won't be necessary. Yesterday we banged or apologized, on Monday we banged in ELAK, the Committee on European Union Affairs, with several thousand pages without any major debate, without bringing the hall through. And most people think it's very good that there was no debate. I don't understand it. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U420	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U421	Without debate, without debate, there is no guarantee of high-quality legislation and no solution to any problems. I'm not sure it's 20 meters right either, maybe 50. Perhaps in the debate there will also be a solution where we say that we are indeed solving bureaucratic issues, but it remains 200 metres in the islands and under Narva-Jõesuu. But we will solve bureaucratic issues, we will see that the decision-making lever in local governments is greater and that it is not that the Environmental Board has exclusive competence to say simply 'no'. But that is what we can only do through the debate, and if we say today that there is no need for a debate, then we will not solve any problems. We actually have a number of issues coming up here in the field of the environment, where we need to discuss whether the same KAH areas or the areas of increased public interest. Today's issue of beaches is in some respects the same, and if we can see that with these KAH areas the municipalities can sort it out, they have competence, they represent their people in the cea fairly, then I ask, but why are they unable to do so in this matter? What's the difference between these two things? I have not actually heard a substantive answer to this today. Indeed, there are a number of issues on which more or less should be discussed and not just lightly say that there is no problem. I think we have the opportunity to solve these problems, in the hands of the Riigikogu, and we do not have to wait for the Government of the Republic to bring us a solution on the tray, and then we say yes, a great job has been done for us, and we knock and press the button. So really, if we're going to make this decision here soon, I will personally say on my own behalf that we need a debate. Let us not reject this bill at an unreasonable rate and look for solutions that protect our environmental values, ensure the use of our natural resources reasonably, but do not pass on property rights. We are looking for this compromise! But this compromise we can only compromise if this law remains in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U422	Thank you very much. No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 483, but the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject this draft at first reading. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed exactly the same thing. We must vote on this rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting it in the order they came in. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft 483 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U423	There were 49 delegates in favour of the rejection proposal, 16 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported and the draft has fallen out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U424	Let's continue on today's agenda. Our second item today is the draft amendment to the state border law initiated by the Isamaa Group, 489. This is a first reading and I call Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U425	Honourable representative of the people! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The faction of the Fatherland Party has initiated a bill to amend the law on our state border in order to resolve one of the acute legal gaps that affect our security, border security. Indeed, since last summer, the eastern border of the European Union, in particular Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, has been under attack from Belarus in the form of a massive and forceful attempt at illegal border crossings, and these countries have managed to block this force, including with the help of Estonia. But the situation with regard to our borders is that we have set up a temporary barbed wire barrier on a couple of ten kilometres of land border. And the rest of the land border, together with the land border, is about 300 miles [135 km], we're physically unblocked. We have to rely on a natural barrier in this possible attack situation, for example, when it comes to gender or difficult to penetrate. However, the situation is that our current law, as well as the interpretation of this right by the police department and the Ministry of the Interior, is basically that when there is an illegal attempt to cross the border, when we are dealing with a single case, police officers are obliged to detain, identify and apply sanctions for illegal border crossings. In the event that it now requests, so-called application for refugee status, requests international protection, proceedings shall commence with respect to that person which, hypothetically, should result either from the granting or rejection of the status of the beneficiary of that international protection, and, if the circumstances are objectively guaranteed, as is established in the country of origin, the original country of dispatch, in order to be able to remove that person as well. It's for a single person. The situation is made more complicated and this draft is designed to overcome this specific legal gap; we have seen these dramatic footage at, for example, the Polish border crossing point, where, in fact, a large number of people using force there, fortunately, not firearms, but stones, sticks, smoke rockets are actually trying to penetrate the country's territory. And then, in the case of specific countries, such as Poland, which we have seen, police officers, border guards will then try to prevent them from entering the country's territory. And now we imagine how, if this happens, for example, in the forest or somewhere, even in a situation where there is no physical barrier, which prevents it, and we know that this barbed wire fence, too, is actually quite quick to cross, even with a ladder, to throw potato bags on it, or it is possible to crush it quite quickly with the corresponding wire cutting equipment. And then the question is that if these people, this large group of people, are actually able to invade Estonia by force, suppose, five meters, suppose, 50 meters, in this situation, in which we do not have a physical border barrier, surely our border guard and police task and also the police have been given the task of preventing these people from crossing the state border, let's say they did not come, form shields using special means, then proportionally, water cannons, whatever, we saw from the practice of other countries. If they succeed, however, in crossing the state border in this amount, it is a paradox that our police officers do not have the right to push these people back from the Estonian border, in order to counter their attack in this form, but to detain them, to bring them to the detention house, to start proceedings against them. Procedures can be very long-term if people deny their country of origin, refuse to recognise it if they apply for international protection, it may be very difficult to force them to leave this country with procedures later on. And we actually have a police office itself in our own risk assessments that has established this limit when we talk about a large number of people, it is not hypothetical, as we have seen in the case of Lithuania, 5000 is the ability that we were also told in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, in a large way, it is possible to deal with many of them within the country, wherever they are isolated and the procedure is put into place. This question of thousands is not an academic problem with theoretical capabilities, because, well, thousands of these people actually arrived on Lithuania's territory. When we are talking about a hypothetical hybrid attack, isn't it, for example, by Russia or we are actually saying it, we are actually talking about the fact that it can be very numerous? And now the principle of describing this practical problem is that Poland and Lithuania have tried to solve it with the rapidly adopted amendments to the law, because this situation in the event of this type of crisis is undoubtedly, was also of a unique nature, so to speak, there must be an urgent response, and Poland and Lithuania have adopted a fundamental, if briefly describe this line of thinking, then it is that, in fact, if these people are invading, it is not the logic of international protection in the classical sense, but it is an attack. Then this is a security crisis, in which we cannot say that it is then within the scope of the regulation of international protection, within the scope of its scope, but it is clearly a national security problem. Therefore, those persons should be entitled to be forced back into the territory of the country of dispatch by police forces. From the format, that is, in fact, the two provisions, firstly, which we propose to Parliament when there is a massive attempted illegal border crossing, the Police and Border Guard Board is obliged, firstly, for security reasons to prevent it and refuse to accept applications for international protection, and, secondly, the principle that the Police and Border Guard Board is obliged, precisely for security reasons, to refuse to accept applications for international protection in the case of this type of mass illegal border crossing, and, rightly, to send foreigners who have crossed the border illegally back to the foreign country from which or through which they arrived in Estonia. And the legal vacuum of this problem was actually revealed in the summer. I wrote to the Prime Minister in early August, where I asked for this legal gap to be resolved without delay. I have also spoken to our police officers about this bill, of course since the summer. Police leaders also recognise the existence of a legal gap, which is a real practical problem. And it has in no way lost its acuteity in a situation where the war is knocking on the door of Europe, where we can be expected to be indeterminate, let us say, action involving the use of force, the use of force of different types by the Russian Federation in a situation where, in fact, there is a fundamentally dramatic and indeterminate confrontation between NATO and the Russian Federation, and we are a border country, and that means that all of this entails risks. And we have already tabled this bill in November because, in response to this call, the Prime Minister said that we are thinking, we are debating, we are thinking, but months have passed, and in a crisis situation we need to act decisively, quickly, there cannot be a very academic approach. There, in August, I also called on the Prime Minister to set up barriers to the border, quickly temporary barriers, months, months, barriers were finally temporarily installed, indeed, given that these barriers, I said, cover only a few decades of territory, from the land border line. And in the case of this law, Mr Minister for the Interior, we also had a debate in the Committee on State Budget Control, said that they are still shaping the position. It was the government's view that this bill would not be supported in this form, but in principle there is a problem, there is a problem. And the problem, as I emphasised, is critical, time-critical that we must have effective deterrence. There can be no such situation for a possible attack that Lithuania, Poland have implemented such security measures, but Estonia is becoming a decoy rather than a particularly deterrent. In Estonia, in fact, if a leg, one leg establishes a sacred land according to its approach, right, then in fact, persons are already covered by the protection of the right of international protection. This is a completely abnormal situation, a completely abnormal situation. We should, of course, seek to change the legal framework in the European Union, but the more acutely, as other countries have done, who are under attack, under real attack, to learn about their critical situation and to adopt this law in the form we have proposed. We are certainly not closed on the changes to this text. Experts and officials can change this, these nuances and emphasis and terms. For us, it is important that we act without delay to fill this legislative gap, the security gap. And, in itself, I applaud with sympathy that the coalition in Parliament decided this, I understand, the proposal is, okay, the Commission was supported in order not to exclude it from the procedure. But I hope it's not just that you see, then he goes to the pantry. It is useful to keep a variety of nutrients in the pantry and those drafts that the opposition may feel politically not so safe to vote out. I hope that we will still be able to bring this draft to this situation as soon as possible on the proposals of the Ministry of the Interior. Or if there is a bill, the government will come up with a bill, the more this bill has fulfilled its outcome. The important thing is that we achieve a loophole. Right now, we have a roof window open, and it could rain at any moment, I warn you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U426	Thank you very much. It is now possible to ask questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U427	Thank you very much, manager. Good Urmas! Well, a most grateful initiative, I have to be honest with you. This kind of loopholes need to be patched up, that's clear. It is, in fact, completely abnormal this situation, this concept of sacred land, as you mentioned, which the European Union has created. Indeed, it is not always the view of the national conservatives that the state is sovereign, that the borders of the state are sacred and that it must be protected and maintained. In itself, there are no reproaches on this bill from this side, and there is no reproach on matters. However, I do have a question about the practical part. You also mentioned earlier here that if there is now a transfer from there, if this crossing is successful for these villains or whatever motivations [they are crossing the border], then we have to get them out or we have to send them back to the country of departure. But how is this practically happening? One thing, one possibility is that we have a peaceful country on the other side to return it to, and we have contractual connections. The second option is that we have [on the other side of the border] a country that cannot be returned to, they do not take. Is this how a dead cat bounces, or how it does, how it physically happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U428	Thank you. I mean, this is not about making a legal decision in this sense, the return procedure, so to speak, I don't know, à la Iraq, okay? The only thing we're talking about is that they were physically able to enter ten metres, I don't know, a kilometer, 20 kilometres of Estonian territory, this so-called group attack was successful in parts. We can imagine how difficult this situation is, in the sense that defending the border line is now very difficult in nature, right, and you cannot go to Russian Federation territory, right? We imagine that if a person walks from there, what is it like now with a centimeter band, if he falls into the territory of Estonia, then he must instead be captured and pulled to the Estonian side, because a completely different procedure of international protection begins with him. So yes, the answer is basically what we propose in the draft, as we saw on the Polish-Belarus border. I guess these are the people who traveled all the way here and here. Repressed and returned and repressed. There is no alternative to this type of situation. We do not foresee any formal procedure, expulsion in this bill. Our starting point is that these people would not be given any legal status, because then they would have to start on a train somewhere along the Narva River, or, well, let's say, send people by train from there on the Narva Bridge, separately in return. Our logic is that if they have entered illegally in an attack that is a security crisis, then the security crisis will be responded to in a proportionate manner by using the force to stop them and, as a result of this force, they will be forced to retreat. The approach, and in that sense, I think, is the law on preventing mass immigration that we had, in Parliament we adopted, in fact there was a fundamental ideological gap in it for me. This was all about, this law was about, which has been adopted in Parliament, well, which makes sense in the general room to deal with it. But that general path was how to deal with these people when they've already reached the country's territory, in thousands. How, then, can they be dealt with? I think that our starting point should still be that we have to do everything and a little bit more first so that they don't come here. This is the actual situation. We are also looking at the burden that is well in the Lithuanian country, with 5000 coming. But what if this number is 50,000? It is clear that countries have their own tolerance, and this is no joke. It is therefore necessary to choose a reasonable, healthy understanding of the solutions and the solutions we propose to push them back from the border. If they manage to infiltrate, even so to speak, this invasion should remain extremely short and be pushed back from the border. Hypothetic situations will, of course, become difficult if the counterparty also uses its own strength and these persons are so to speak in the middle of something. But then they still stay on the territory of a country, right? But that's already due to a specific operation plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U429	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U430	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In your speech or introductory presentation, you claimed that 20 kilometres of barbed wire had been built into the Estonian border. Last week, a member of the National Defence Commission came to the southeast border, where I saw a beautifully constructed border with all kinds of surveillance tools and cameras. Were you wrong, or are you just not aware that the southeast border is pretty well built?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U431	Thank you. No, the southeast border isn't built. We divide the southeast border into zones, indeed. I'm adjusting the point. One, the shorter part is constructed, but the smaller part of this territory, which is not constructed, is covered by barbed wire within a few decades. My point was that, I'm adjusting. That's how you had the right explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U432	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U433	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! A necessary thing in the current hybrid attack situation. But what I'm asking you is how can we still move forward, because in an era when Brussels still requires immigration under the yellow pentagon and organises it quite diligently and prohibits even giving money to border facilities, it does not look good at all what is coming from there. I'm not talking about Mama Merkel's invitation. Millions march through Europe. The question now is whether it should not be made that, not only in the case of mass immigration, the processing of these requests will be banned, but in the event of any illegal transfer. Only embassies remain or by letter. I mean, that would help take away the desire to swim across the river or to march across the river.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U434	Thank you. I think that this is certainly an extremely serious complex of problems, which now concerns the application of the entire International Convention on the Status of Refugees and, above all, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which concerns the same Convention on the Status of Refugees. I think, certainly, if we are also thinking, for example, of the real situation in the Mediterranean that has arisen in the case of human smuggling, then certainly the most humane are the measures that reduce the pressure or motivations of real migration for this type of migration. It is now about whether it should be extended to any entry and defined, then the initiators of the draft have, above all, taken into account the security crisis, where there is such a blockage by force. I think that the principle approach to illegal border crossing, in fact, must still be seen as an offence, it is a violation of the law, is an illegal border crossing. This approach should certainly be cost-effective. With regard to the different types of provisions, we must assess its application in the legal order in which we are situated. I am also thinking here of the rules of the European Union. As I said, this interpretation, which Poland and Lithuania have also taken, is precisely that the Polish approach was based on the fact that this security situation is isolated from the international protection procedure and the refugee procedures established in the Schengen area in terms of its organic response to the objectives attributed to the so-called security crisis and not to the little convention. I think it's very important that we try to interpret and treat... There is also international law, I do not share this direction, but there is logic that says that this sacred land theory or doctrine is actually absolute, there can be no exceptions to it. I mean, if we had a million people coming across the border from the east at a time, so that practical compliance with the Convention could not be compromised. We understand, of course, if justice goes against itself, then that right, in my opinion, will lose the right to be by its own logic. We must assess the right in a purposeful way. So the short answer is that we certainly need to find additional ways of defending the principles of a 'normal' conservative migration policy. But this, as I said, is precisely to solve the critical base case that came up for us this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U435	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U436	Thank you very much. I still have practical questions, Urmas. I support the bill as much as I can, but again. Then, if the border crossing should take place, let's say, from some temporarily occupied territory near Petseri or from Narva, it's not like there's a problem in itself. But if they swim one or come over Lake Peipsi-Pihkva in rubber boats, we have a problem, first of all, by the extent of the limit, by the scale, and, secondly, if they get across now, they need to be captured and, since they are really in the way of the lawbreakers, non-tolerable, the procedure is not initiated, they must be brought back. How do you see if Russia will be happy to welcome them somewhere near Narva, take over and say thank you boys? Or what if it's supposed to be physically?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U437	The police department has to comply with the law. It is not in itself stated in our proposal that they must reach the territory of the country of dispatch at exactly the same point in the border path. How was it described? In this warm room, it's good to imagine he's turning into such a game of cops and cops, isn't it, where one side is pushed back, the other end is coming in? But I think it is a tool that will then enable us to return these persons to a place where it is undoubtedly safe for both editors and certainly not to endanger the lives of the people they deliver. It's conceivable practically, from there I think it should happen. As far as crossing the water barrier is concerned, because we have the Gulf of Finland, we have, when we talk, the Lake Peipsi, we are actually talking about Lake Peipsi, right, it is a serious issue in itself, where we have enough... The equipment is an important issue in which we have proposed, and it is precisely the floating barriers that have been proposed, which is very important, as we see it, the radars are showing that some kind of vessels are approaching, so how to repel them. These dramatic struggles with those low barges and boats that actually took place from Turkey with similar types of migration attacks, which we remember, if I am not mistaken, from the beginning of last year. After all, we have these experiences, there are painful lessons to be learned from other countries. And we have in reality, we still have this situation, there's an isolated island in the Narva River. A small island, right, for which it is not in itself, it is not in the sense that the Estonian border guard is not physically on it and there is no jurisdiction. I would like to remind you that this legal gap is in this sense the more incoherent, in the case of this tiny piece of island, it is basically conceivable that there will be one large company besides Russia, so to speak at the Narva River, and then the law actually in force means that a boat must be sent from the Estonian side, taken aboard, taken them to the detention house, I don't know where, to the Narva Detention House, and I will continue to deal with this status. This type can be... Well, I'm not gonna talk, Saatse, okay, especially the specific exotic boundary points that can change, to get us back very painfully, if we haven't, at least by legal means, intimidated it, these activities. One thing is the massive illegal border crossing. One thing is, one of the prerequisites is that it is organised by a third country or another country in such an act of influence, but it is certainly theoretically possible to imagine different types of crises, where there are riots and where, confusedly, a number of people are trying to cross the border into the territory of the country. It was also a question from the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior or from whom the question came, I think someone in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a question, but whether we are humane when there really is a civil disaster in some country, even in Russia, isn't it? But no, we don't... There is a situation in the current law if someone allows refugees to make a sovereign decision in the event of an ecological disaster. If the state decides to do so, it will decide to allow someone to do so, but if the state does not believe that it will allow it, then it must have the right to defend its borders. Protect it unconditionally. It can't be "Uka-uka, I'm free!" The game, right now, you're gonna get one-legged to the Holy Land, and your status is actually different. It's very voluntaristic, it's becoming voluntaristic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U438	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U439	Good manager! Good waitress! Someone's voice is also coming... If I may... We are speaking here as theoretically as it would be, but among us there are people who have actually returned to the Holy Land, Mr Breivel once sent 22 Vietnamese back. He got punished, but you see, he did. I ask: if we do not adopt this bill, would it be punished if some fellow Member of Breivel today did the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U440	Thank you. Yeah. The answer is, Peter, we went to the police department, too, didn't we, on an observation mission, talked to the police leaders, looked into the guidelines. Well, these guidelines become vague in that sense, five meters from the territory of Estonia and so on. In this sense, the worst part is that it is very difficult to impose on our police officers, that they must somehow bypass them, with legal formal requirements that have been explicitly imposed by the legislator in the rule of law. That means we're actually giving our law enforcement officers... They don't feel safe behind them. It is the most dangerous that somehow, figuratively speaking, if they defend this border in full, there may be a situation where they break the law. And indeed, the answer is a formal, valid interpretation of the law, whether it is adopted or not, but it is a conduct that violates the law in force when they are pushed back from the Holy Land, right, using force. This is, of course, an abnormal situation, an existing situation. And once again, I would like to emphasise that this bill has not come from an academic outbreak of inspiration and poetry, but it has nevertheless arisen in such a way that there is also a clear concession from the police. This legal gap is real and extensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U441	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U442	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! I have a question about the 'opportunity' you referred to, that the coalition in the Commission at least supported the draft, did not send back. But when I look at this coalition activity, they mostly follow events when I look at the corona crisis, the electricity price compensation. In the area of security now, last week, we first heard such a political, I do not know whether it is a campaign or some position, the content of which cannot be understood in any other form than that of the state budget this year of 13 to 16 million, but what actually happens to 380 million in the security context is still not known to us. As far as I'm concerned, it's too late to deal with it, what kind of idea do you have that we're going to get ahead of events when we put this bill into effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U443	Well, I hope so. That it is not a question of now that a certain focus of pressure is now in the confrontation of Russia and the West elsewhere at the moment, but that does not mean that it cannot immediately turn against us like a lightning out of the blue, including the use of this hybrid weapon. It can happen in weeks' time. In this sense, yes, we must act quickly, I hope this will be done. And no follow-up. Most people in today's world are following events, the stock markets are working on this principle, following events. When the fall comes, it's back on track. The minority has been given the ability to be present or ahead of events. But we must, we must, ourselves, create a comprehensive shield, physical and legal, which does not give the opponent an illusion, real or real impression, the real impression that, as we are now the weakest link in terms of legal protection on the eastern border. At the moment, when I look at the legal changes that Lithuania and Poland have made, this seems to be the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U444	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U445	Thank you. Dear waitress, Good President! Here's the question. While the draft states here that new terms and concepts will not be introduced, it is relatively new for me to have this'mass border crossing'. What does that mean? I've been illegally crossing the border myself in my life, Sweden has gone. Luckily, I went there alone, and my wife and I went by the name of Leila Miller, who, by the way, has a birthday. Congratulations, Leila! But it certainly wasn't considered mass and wouldn't be considered here either. But where does this limit come from? Is three massive or four massive? And another question. Perhaps here, however, we should also define that this border crossing is somehow organised. If we really want to imitate or copy a little of the situation that happened in Belarus on the Polish-Lithuania border there, there were organized gangs that were brought there. To fight it maybe somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U446	Thank you. Well, there's a lot of facets now. One aspect is that the law on preventing mass immigration, it is actually a valid legal term, in the case of this law that was passed, I think, this parliamentary composition, I think, this parliamentary composition. In fact, it is true that the term'mass illegal border crossing' was not used in this law, but I think that the word'mass' is a legal term that the legislator would give to the Police and Border Guard Board. So, yeah, I guess two people, an auxiliary couple, aren't massive if you go by that logic. As I said, we did not want to describe quite precisely, to create such a useful norm, taking exactly this Polish contour, but we tried not to confuse ourselves there with a precisely too detailed situation, in the case of illegal border crossings, à la, which is still being mashed, can be said, a third country and so on to lay these conditions. It could be more difficult for us to prove. But once again, I said we're completely open. The government will put forward its draft, put forward proposals to improve it; we will not be stuck in these concepts. It's important to us that this idea is settled. The formations aren't cemented in any way for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U447	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U448	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand the need to put backs together with my allies in this region. If they are already dealing with this problem and they have already actually had this problem, then Estonia cannot remain here as one of the current grey areas. Let's imagine that we're already a money-laundering country, and now we're going to be such a country of human trafficking, perhaps, because we're going to treat the legislation differently. And here's my question: in order that maybe this bill is also suitable for power parties, maybe it can add that it also reduces the possibilities of money laundering, for example? Then he seems to be working so well together that each party finds some moment that he can tell his constituents, because pressure is in fact already on the side of employers who want us to take all the restrictions down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U449	What would he be? To complement the words "massive unclear border crossing" with the word "money"? "Massician unclear money crossing"? I think these... and these rules might have to comply with that. Of course, if we now look at the wider range of problems that we are regulating, we must honestly say that this migratory pressure, and now also the use of migration as a tool that has taken place, here we must respond with additional legal mechanisms. It's a case. But I sensed in the government's written text, when I read it, the government's written text, one and a half pages of the Home Office's document or letter, was written about this pathos, how nothing can be done. The draft proposed is contrary to European Union law, without cycling, and therefore cannot be supported in this form. The problem was admitted, admitted, but there was no solution. This was said to be contrary to the principles of European Union law and the Schengen area and to its processing of refugee competences. What am I waiting for? For Estonia to be initiativeable and to come up with proposals at European Union level, which, precisely at the level of European Union law, would also help to resolve these issues. If, on a massive basis, the border of the Republic of Estonia has been crossed illegally, the border of the European Union has also been crossed, and this is undoubtedly the interest of all European countries, it should be that it is not political willlessness or deliberately even a country that does not open up or actually turns out to be a hole in the mouse. There is a great deal of talk today about the rights of irregular immigrants in the European rulebook, which must be guaranteed according to the European rulebook, but Schengen is, above all, a border area. Other European countries or all European countries have a duty to protect this border. If the external border does not hold one August, then inevitably changes, the functioning and security of the entire Schengen area will become fragile throughout the Union's internal territory. This is a very serious problem. States must have an obligation to ensure that the border must be a legal obligation. Legal obligation, due to European law. I think that this political persuasion was somehow lacking for me in the government's position, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U450	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U451	Good manager! Good waitress! If you look at it a little higher, then well Mustamäe has already justified its name already, and I think we are already moving according to the European Union's rules of the game, that all of Estonia can turn into Mustamäe or the Mountain of Color or how we wish. And this current initiative, with the so-called example of Poland and Lithuania, is very correct. But I do have, Poles and Lithuanians did what they called, lost tourist law. The law of a lost tourist, if I remember correctly. And, of course, Brussels did not like it, because the internal logic is that the more colored and other, it is, the more diversity enriches. Are you, my question is, are you familiar with the law of this lost tourist that colleagues in Poland and Lithuania have done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U452	Yeah, I know. I mean, I don't have the text of the law, but in the popular key to this description of the legal initiatives of both countries we are familiar with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U453	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U454	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I still have a question about how to get this law to work. You indicated on a number of occasions that you've been in contact with police officers and that they're basically admitting the problem and supporting it. But now I have the question: have you also been in contact with the Minister of the Interior, Jaan, and has he also been in contact with his former colleagues and understands this problem equally and their concern that this hole in the law must be fulfilled, since you have described here the views and feedback of the government on this bill in a spiritful way? Yesterday, remember, we also dealt with the bill, didn't I point out that the government is running on different occasions and so-called drafts are being made where Brezhnev's package comes with it? Can we expect, you know, in the near future, the government has discussed whether this notch can be resolved and within the framework of what draft and because, for some reason, if our draft does not have to find support or go on with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U455	Ms Annus, Head of the Migration Department of the Ministry of the Interior, who attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said that they are dealing with this issue by a profile that would be in line with European Union law. That they had it planned, if I remember correctly, Mart's gonna get the protocol later, maybe it was the first quarter, maybe even if he mentioned it by the end of the first quarter. Yes, of course, I have spoken to the Minister for the Interior when I was probably in November, we talked about this in November, after we gave our draft to the procedure, so that we should act quickly. The Home Affairs Minister's answer was: there is no need to worry, we will give a response to your draft in December. But, well, I'm saying that in a situation like this, in a crisis situation, you just have to increase the rate of reaction, the rate of reaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U456	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U457	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, once I make a suggestion, there's gonna be another one. And the next proposal is based on the fact that in cases where tourists have lost their way to Europe and tend to do so, they have all publicly admitted that they have paid for it. Maybe the dimension of human trafficking. The human trafficking dimension was, in fact, already in the Mediterranean. There was talk in the corridors of the European Parliament. But look at the miracle, for the reason of some country that maybe made the most of it, it somehow disappeared out of there like a twig in the water. At the time, it was also a thought that the North Coast of Africa would simply blow all these vessels to pieces. However, in this draft procedure, this would be a specific measure that would prevent trafficking in human beings. Could that help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U458	Yes, this measure is obviously an obstacle to human trafficking. At least if those people who are being exploited in this'migration struggle' potentially against the Estonian state, if they are at least informed about such a legal framework, well, at least on the territory of the country of departure, before they start taking this trip, it should certainly consider that it might be more appropriate to choose another territory as their target country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U459	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U460	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! It would also comment on this argument that, for security reasons, an application for international protection cannot be refused. After all, Poles, Lithuanians and Latvians have all done so. I went to Latvia last week, the Latvians mentioned that migratory pressures are currently focusing on those that have 50 returns per day at their pace. Latvians, Lithuanians and Poles are now building all their border facilities this year, 350 plus million Poles, 140 million Lithuanians. And the chairman of the Lithuanian National Defence Commission mentioned that he was reported daily on the work done. Indeed, compared to our southern neighbours, we are slow. I agree with you that we should pick up the pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U461	Thank you. That's right. That was also my question, which I pointed out in my letter to the Prime Minister in August, that it is quite elementary in the current crisis to be caught by the three Baltic states, say, at least at the European Union's eastern border to build up a minimum degree of physical barrier. Here we understand perfectly that if Latvia does not do so, we will also be defenceless, because we do not intend to establish a physical barrier to the Latvian-Estonian border. Similarly, if we meet our obligations with delay, then again, backwards, also in Latvia, right, there is a problem in terms of going back and forth. Unfortunately, so far, there has been no cooperation in planning and erecting border facilities in this form. I think this cooperation could be stronger in the actions of the Baltic States. Yes, of course, the question is also that when we talk about the time when we are able to build the border, nor is the decision of the government, which spoke about the need to channel additional resources to the eastern border, which was the political call for it to be planned in the case of a country's budgetary strategy, not a real decision, it is not a real decision to channel money. And that, of course, didn't include creating a physical barrier to the entire border line. Peeter and I took the beautifully large Sherlock Holmes lubes and we took the entire land border with planned or also approved elements, zones at which level the barriers will be established, which the sector will pass through. Here, this level of ambition should be faster and it should be more extensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U462	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U463	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Is the information known to me correct that the Government of the Republic initially declared its position on the draft initiated by the Fatherland secret, i.e. for official use only, with the AK marks and later took it down, and did the Commission have a debate or can you explain the reasons why this AK mark was made there and why it was later abandoned? And how would we have held this debate in this large Chamber so that we could have opened the position of the government to members of the Riigikogu, knowing that the Riigikogu session was public? Should we have announced this item in camera or how this approach would have been? And the second question. Is there now an illegal border crossing in Estonia, a massive illegal border crossing, should we also distinguish between organised mass crossings and unorganized illegal crossings, or should we not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U464	Thank you. I wouldn't narrow our toolbox like this, which in fact it does in that sense, it becomes subjective anyway, and what that means is that if there is such a mass group of people or a large number of people, it will be organized, unorganized. I would, I think, stick to the choice that the initiators of the bill have so that he would be the word'massity'. The organized border crossings can also be attended later, after all, people can come spontaneously. So here by itself, I'm here for the big thing, well, the difference, I don't think we should narrow ourselves down. I think that this starting point is where there is, in fact, a situation where, as a assumption that this mass border crossing is capable of, the assumption should be that the police can block the border. It's like option A, they don't even come into the territory of the country. If he is already at such a breaking point that they, in fact, the police, are no longer able to carry out this task, purely physically already according to the cost of the so-called dispersal of force or of this particular pattern of conflict, that is, in fact, the situation in which this rule should be implemented. Now, yes, we had a problem in the Commission, in fact, with the matters of admission and the grounds for them, which are being recognised, they have somehow spread out like bugs right now. It is legitimate to accept documents for official use until a decision has been taken by the government in the form of an opinion on a draft, and then, in fact, they are written in such a way that, until a decision is taken by the government, it is for official use until the government has taken a decision, because the government can also change its decision, right, in the course of the hearing, redrafted it. But this document had been announced, which was the source of the confusion, for five years. It seemed that on the same day the Ministry of the Interior sent this draft to Parliament, with the stamp "Five years" on it, that it had been removed, but because it was not removed from the original paper, it became a controversy. It is important, yes, if there is a conditional or temporal or official recognition of an event that enters into force, then the point of the Public Information Act is that it must also state the deadline, not just five years, to the maximum period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U465	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U466	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, you mentioned in your speech that we have really taken this initiative now and the Government of the Republic has accepted it with such a long cock or a long tooth. But here's the next step. In European Union law, too, someone should actually be making a move to change it. Perhaps, as a short review, you would open up the following problems, which, if we now look at international law in the light that perhaps we should also send a message to the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U467	Yes, I think it is absolutely appropriate that this speech also become such a platform of call for proposals to the government. Especially by a group of countries that think alike, there could be a pan-European rights issue, the same Schengen or migration package, or the sort of migration that it is. In fact, the European Migration Framework has highlighted Ursula von der Leyen as one of the priorities... Whether this passion is taming compared to the events that have taken place this year or last year, we shall see. The green turn and other issues have come into focus, much less security issues. Surely we should make these proposals. Now, I think this, in terms of international law, is an excellent example for us of this naivism, which also existed in the United Nations framework on migration. In fact, there were dozens of pages of rights in the migration framework that must be given to migrants of all kinds, whether legal or illegal. The full implementation of this policy framework on migration, either legally or, in essence, by declaring itself to be a member of the migration framework, must be recognised honestly so that the draft will be in the waste bin. We would violate the international, United Nations commitment that we have assumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U468	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U469	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! According to Gerassimov's doctrine, anything can be turned into a weapon. If, for example, we use the terms 'information war' and 'cyber war', there is no physical violence, no one dies, then perhaps it would be appropriate for us to use the correct term, which is'migration war'. It's not here yet, but it might. There are three components here how we're going to block it. There is legislation in which this bill has a very important role to play in improving it, then there are physical barriers that we talked about, and the third is the human component, the ability of the PBA to counter it. It is clear that if it comes down to the PPP not rejecting it with its 'peace-time' structure, and we are talking about the Internal Defence Reserve, what is your assessment of how this should proceed? This does not directly concern this draft, but it clearly joins the area of this problem, this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U470	Thank you. Surely we must have this ability. Obviously imagining this large-scale action today, I'm imagining a real-life, and it was also our autumn, late autumn exercise, right, model, and here's no alternative... With regard to the logic of today's ability, the Defence Forces should have asked in a broader sense for help in such an action and, above all, for the Defence League's assistance. So I think this reserve, let's say, above all, this, this capacity we need, of course, to recoil this type of attack. Above all, I imagine a voluntary national defence organisation on the surface, where people have certain rules and obligations to come out with a certain time delay, to take up tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U471	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U472	Good manager! Honourable waitress! Do I understand that the current government has not understood what has happened on the Polish-Lithuanian border? They'll send backup, but no decisions have been made. Now the Fatherland Party has proposed a bill. How do you think the government is going to think about this draft proposal or not, that there is a need to amend the state border law a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U473	I'd like to hope so. I mean, let's say, there was quite another patho in the attitude of a representative of the government, in the form of Mrs. Dosage's views, when, in fact, this written, passionate text, which, in the government's view, she did not consider possible to support this text, was. I think it is important here that our approach was last year, when we take this migration crisis, I think it was misguided in two respects. In the summer there was an approach, we remember, a government approach such that there is no danger to Estonia. What it was based on, we don't have that information. The claim was that this is an assessment by the security authorities; Estonia is not at risk in this crisis. Secondly, in my view, the restrictive problem was that it was not perceived that it was actually part of Russia's widespread attack on the West and that it should be treated as such. And that was why I called on the Prime Minister in early August, we were still members of the Security Council at the time, that this problem, we say what Leo Kunna rightly called the migration war, is an issue that is not a matter of applying for international refugee status separately, but is actually a security conflict and must be addressed in the United Nations Security Council. I was amazed that as the only member of the Security Council elected from Eastern Europe, Estonia did not raise this problem in the Security Council. It surprised me that we kept quiet and remained a philosopher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U474	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U475	Thank you, Mr. President. Good waitress! That's where I'd really like to go on, and my question was meant to be, but you led it in very well. The use of people as a weapon, which in this case, in essence, took place in hybrid attacks, is certainly an indisputable violation of international law. Maybe we remember somehow from that other world war where they were pushed in front of the human horde and the gunman was in the back, the Cheka man was in the back, and whoever dared to come back got shot. Using people as weapons is a really gross violation. And we in the Security Council didn't dare or didn't want to raise this issue at all. How are we supposed to go from here? Today it is the past of the Security Council, but we should still be able to look at this process from this perspective as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U476	I think that you can't defend those values from yourself and those values that you believe in in in the roles you've been given to you from the top of your lip. It was a question that really amazed me. December... [[A voice from the hall.]] Who's recording here? But the question is that the problem was: Putin presented his proposals at the beginning of December. We are going back again, putting a broader perspective on this crisis, one of which is the migration war, so let us call it that. Once again, the threat of war, the use of weapons in a situation where the sovereign choices of states are being abandoned, is in fact contrary to the UN Charter. I was also amazed that, in a situation where the United States had begun its negotiations, well, Biden and Putin's double speech, which took place during Christmas or before Christmas, that it was actually a question, that is exactly the same question that could have been addressed to the Security Council in the last few weeks that we were a member of the Security Council, because it responded exactly to the tasks of the Security Council set out in the United Nations Charter. If Estonia had been there alone, it would have been alone, but I think our allies would certainly have expressed their position as well and this would have been an important indicator of our attitude. But the current situation is the current situation. We need to understand that we must not have passiveness in standing up for vital security interests, including those of other countries, who are our allies. Security is undivided in the sense that the current security crisis is trying to divide into certain sectors. This approach is such a sectoral division, and it concerns me to a certain extent. This is actually part of the biggest security crisis in Europe, which our eyes see in the current situation after our accession to NATO. And this in reality also means that we need to deal with all these individual issues from a security perspective. If we start to deal with the bottom-up on the surface of single problems without seeing a bigger perspective, then we are making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U477	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U478	Thank you for this important draft, which will certainly address a real problem. But when I look at how it is formulated, here, in fact, in any case, when there is mass border crossing, an attempt at illegal border crossing, there is an obligation to block it, without leaving the possibility of human behaviour. Let us imagine that, for example, there is a disaster at the Leningrad nuclear power plant, or a major natural disaster just happens across the border, and people are just running this way because they have nowhere else to go. So that we do not actually leave people between the earth and the sky in such a case, but the Police and Border Guard Board cannot act humanely in this way, for example, waiting for the Estonian Government to take a decision, it must send them back. Can we not think that this obligation, however, would be formulated as an opportunity to leave those cases where people really run honestly, that we would not give our border guards the responsibility to behave inhumanely?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U479	Thank you. We actually have that opportunity. The existing law on international protection and refugee status,...the law on protection provides that, in principle, it is possible to take a decision to relocate or relocate people from the territory of other countries. This relocation, resettlement may take place, I don't know, the plane is flying or is actually opening the border in itself, basically, to a number of people. This theoretical design itself exists. But I would not leave such an approach that we have, in fact, such an open border concept in such a situation, certainly has a humanistic dimension and a purely objective dimension, or what can really come in the case of disaster film scenarios where legal constructions can also prove to be purely theoretical or purely academic in some circumstances. But at the same time, I must say that it is not the same question that was asked by Heiki Hepner about the fact that people who are are coming to be used as weapons or human shields, but generally I look at them, also from Iraq, from Belarus, they were still aware, they were paid and they were not quite the way that people were taken off the street and forced then, are they not, as the general assumption of this human shield ban on international humanitarian law is? And I have to say, but the question is, one thing is that people who are coming from some random country of origin, but they can come easily, aren't they sweatshirts, man-snots with sweatpants, who just happen to be retired three months later, aren't they, Pihkva Dessant Division, are just gonna come along with backpacks and skis in their hands, across the border, and are they, say, and they're not firearms, they are, say, then, aren't they? And the question is that there will be 1,000 people, 50,000 people will come, as I said, that this human capacity is nothing absurd or unrealistic either. After all, we are talking here about the number of people in the European Union in 2015, which entered the territory of the European Union in large parts in the form of illegal migration, was a million plus people. These are not tens of thousands, here to talk about these categories rather of lower weight numbers. So I say that this possibility must be, the law in force sees this possibility when it needs to be clarified, I admit, of course, that there must be, but it cannot happen spontaneously or with a sporadic action, just that it will fall apart. Our starting point must be that we maintain every stage of the crisis, maintain our willful control over the crossing of the control line, make our own choices about whether to open it, let in or close it, and let no one in. But I say, of course, this will work when we talk about disaster movie scenarios, so obviously the state has already taken on at least an emergency situation. And then, in fact, this country's governance scheme is already quite different, I imagine that real-time decisions will be taken when, for example, an ecological disaster, let it be taken care of, has taken place in our neighbouring country and, as a result, people's spontaneous escape will take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U480	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U481	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This is a very important draft, with transfers and implications for a number of other laws. And my question does not directly concern this bill, but it does concern this subject and the issue. We know that Estonia has also sent its reinforcements to Polish borders, for example, to prevent illegal border crossings. Is it not the case now that, in order to send its power structures to missions to other countries, there should be a parliamentary mandate? We have sent people with parliamentary mandates to different countries on various missions, but not to the Polish border. Is this still in line with the current general legislation and practice? And is it true that on certain missions, even armed, we can send our people without Parliament's mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U482	Thank you. I think this is a very serious question mark. I am sure that neither the questioner nor the respondent has any doubt that this was a very right and noble act, to assist the neighbours under attack or crisis. I don't think there's any question about that. But, of course, we understand that a mission of this type, or indeed a mandate, with which we have the mandate of our law enforcement officers, be they defence forces or police officers, in fact, in a broad sense, can, in itself, become a real conflict in such a conflict situation, much more likely than, for example, participation in a United Nations observation mission, which is, in fact, simply the implementation of some existing truce or international truce agreements, which may very well not be the situation with this type of real, genuine conflict. I think this is where... But what do we have in the House of Elders? This should be the case, in fact, that Parliament's Bureau must stand up for its prerogatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U483	Gathered this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U484	Yeah, but you can't be so passive, you have to take the bull out of the horns. Parliamentary privileges. Everyone, as my experience shows, all governments, Martin, is always tempted to steal Parliament's right of birth from its right to be born. But we can't give it away for the lentil. For to put it back in a bag, we see, [can't], dynamics have always been in the opposite direction, rather in Parliament towards the narrowing of real power. So I think that this issue, and it is a matter of state law, of giving power to a parliamentary state outside its own national territory, is not a question of whether it was in any way doubtful. This state of government was a welcome and very appropriate decision. Appreciation for the men and women who took part in these missions! But I don't think it's gonna get Parliament's oversight outside... Especially in a situation where we say again that everything is one crisis, I point out, in a broader plane, there is a military crisis, a security crisis, an internal security crisis, a crisis of external security, an internal security crisis among the allies, which can grow into an external security crisis, if it actually becomes such a pastel autumn, then we must also understand that such a broader, comprehensive approach or doctrine should also be within Parliament's remit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U485	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U486	Thank you. Dear waitress, It was nice to hear you talk about the Lithuanian and Latvian border guards. Then you came like an Estonian border guard. But I should point out that years ago, one company in this hall destroyed the Estonian border guard. And today we don't have a border guard. I saw here on TV a while ago when the so-called border guards were interviewed, they were in green uniform, and there was "Police" written on their chest. So if you're talking about border guarding, tell them we have police guarding the border, but not border guards.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U487	Your experience in life and your professional loyalty to these border ideals and border protection ideals will certainly justify you doing this to me. Yeah, we actually have police officers in charge of border guards, that's the proper formulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U488	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U489	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let's continue on the same subject. I see the Secretary of Defense has sent the military to the border. We're talking about the police and everything else here, but in reality, the defense minister has made a decision and sent in defence allies and defence forces. On the one hand, we know that it has also been in the Riigikogu that up to 100 defence forces may be sent in any way, but in fact, the Riigikogu should also inform the Riigikogu. This notification has not been made. On the one hand, it makes sense that action must be taken quickly, but on the other hand it should be decided, because these are people who have been taken away from families and these people have to make certain decisions on the ground, which are on the European Union's borders on the one hand. How does it feel that perhaps further attention should also be paid to such matters in the proceedings of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U490	I think that, yes, I do not exclude that the law on participation in international military operations or in international military cooperation could also be supplemented. We can make this law into a motorcycle with a sidecar called Izh Planeta, where different topics have been resolved. I don't mind, as long as he doesn't get a handbrake on it to solve this acute problem quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U491	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U492	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is a little out of the question, but I believe that, now that you have a very long experience in ministering, I would like to know the following. The point is that the Minister of Defence often requests that the Riigikogu give a mandate to a foreign mission to carry out a certain task, and the Riigikogu then processes this request for a mission exactly as it has been submitted. My question is: does the Minister of Defence have the right to change the purpose of the mission in what he was originally authorised for without the mandate of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U493	On the mission, i.e. the mission is not, let's say the mission is basically to participate in international cooperation, it can be a transnational one, whether it is an agreement between the states or also as the sending of our one-sided unit, in fact the Riigikogu determines as a decision the number of defence forces, the limit number, the destination of their sending, the time and its so-called, its format, if there is one, the interracial format, or simply indicates that the Estonian Defence Forces are participating. But I think that this objective, whether it is a peacekeeping or a mission, will be transferred to a military mission there, I think it, we say, without the will of Parliament, I do not think it could happen if we give an example of how the format or, say, the use of military force or the use of potential military force, or, let's say, the intensity of the mission, such a combat intensity can fundamentally change, is my answer. If your question specifically concerned this description, the deployment of our defence forces there to protect the borders of our neighbours, it was, I think, somehow by a decree there, by a government decree, or by a decree of the Minister of the Interior. But I'd like to say one thing, you know. I see Maris Lauri was in this hall. As former Minister of Justice, I was, in fact, shocked when, as a surprise, I read about it as an intruder or as a so-called whistleblower in the law that has been brought to our tables. I must say that in 2018 I took a clear position in the government so that Estonia should not support this directive in this form. This is completely insane overregulation and actually leads to a distortion of the protection of rights and may lead to some very drastic snitch. And then, when I went into this law yesterday, I read that this European directive, which has now been approved, only talks about certain types of acts in which this pampering-named whistleblowing or complaining system has been built up, but we are going to take our own national legal order as an elephant, bite the whole of this directive and still stab the whole right. And in essence, the situation has become such that we are talking about offences and not only offences, offences, any law, be it the law of the manufacturer's safety or the veterinary law, but we are actually talking about inaction, which may be contrary to the purpose of the legislation. I'm sorry, I read this Orwell text, I don't understand, I don't understand. I say that this is an extremely dangerous legal construction; it actually does not lead to trust and legal certainty in society, but leads to a completely arbitrary system of complaint in society. And I call on all Members to be extremely observant of this law. And the kind of contraption that has been designed for us, where the Riigikogu must also form an appeal office, an institution, is said. I must admit that serious crimes involving financial, money laundering, fraud, of course, must be dealt with. But the mechanism that we're going to create some sort of virtual, all institutions, all companies, a fire in heaven to the aid of the insistence mechanism! And we are dealing with this contraption in a situation where the war is knocking on the door of Europe! Someone has time to deal with such structures in the current crisis, instead of meeting the acute security problems we have foreseen here. And I'm actually saying that this is a little unusual, but I'm going to take advantage of the actions, the legal actions, there must also be an introductory speech. With this speech, at the end of this statement, I will introduce Maris Lauri to the next point of the government to be reported and announce: the Isamaa Group proposes to reject it. I'll go to the table and hand over this proposal to the waitress. Parliament has already set up a Mannerheim line against this crazy law before the government representative gets to the chair with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U494	Thank you, Urmas! Of course, you got the genres mixed up right now. It's a procedure, Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U495	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I understand that the previous speaker still has an irresistible desire to listen and enjoy his voice, but, as far as I am concerned, we are still currently processing draft law 489 and, as far as I am concerned, should be limited to the procedure of this bill when we are dealing with it. If you would agree with me, would you be so good as to explain to the previous speaker what bill we are on and what we are doing? As you said yourself, all the problems in the world may not have to be solved here in one bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U496	Yeah, thanks! I have always tried to keep this line so that the Riigikogu ambassador, either speaking on the spot or speaking on the board, is as free as possible to express his thoughts. He tied it to the bill. But yes, of course, the statements of the political debate on the second draft should remain either for questions or for negotiations. And that's where we could head. But now it's... Uh-huh. Helir-Valdor Seeder also has a procedure. Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U497	Thank you. I don't know, we have this procedural issue in the Rules of Procedure, but there is no procedural thanks. But maybe it fits into the question. I really wanted to thank the rapporteur very much for this very broad and comprehensive approach to the presentation of the draft, that all these different transfers and aspects will also be thoroughly explained. In my opinion, this was extremely necessary. So thank you very much! And I think that this should serve as a good example for the members of the Riigikogu and as an example of how one draft will be presented to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U498	Got it. It's going to be a nice verbatim. We can proceed with Bill 489 and now I call Mart Võrguship, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U499	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I did tell Urmas not to leave the room, the procedure for this excellent draft will continue. But Urmas left anyway. I'll tell them who cares about the bill. First of all, I'd like to correct a few questions and I'm sorry that Urmas doesn't hear, but his statements about the opinion of the Government of the Republic. Certainly, this opinion was not such as to deny the problems or to make them little. I read the last paragraph here: "In order to allow foreigners who have crossed the external borders illegally or have not received permission to enter Estonia to return more quickly in the event of mass immigration, we support the clarification of the current law. At the same time, as I mentioned earlier, it is necessary to find a more comprehensive solution that takes account of Estonia's international obligations, which the draft initiated by the Fatherland does not offer. The Ministry of the Interior has already started developing the necessary amendments to the law and we will forward them to the Ministry for coordination. " It was also a question of when the Ministry of the Interior or the Government would come up with the corresponding draft, that we would be in a bit of a hurry, but this protocol also states when we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the development of this regulation is now the most important task in the Ministry of the Interior. But now to the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We discussed this draft amendment to the state border law initiated by the Isamaa Group (489 SE) on 18 January 2022. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Ele Russak, Adviser were also invited. First of all, the problem that Urmas Reinsalu raised, and which already sounded in this Chamber, was that this in-house use mark on this document of the Government of the Republic. In fact, Urmas already replied that yes, this statement should be valid until this document has been approved by the Government of the Republic. There is no such reference here, but really, today he is public and this information has reached the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There was certainly no real concern here for a moment that it was as if this issue could not be discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, because the document is for internal use. No, he was public at the time of the signing. But it was also negotiated in the Commission and finally clarified. Now to the substance of the bill. Urmas Reinsalu introduced this bill in the same colorful way he did it in this hall, so I will not go over this part again because we have already heard it. And then we'd go to the questions and the debate. Paul Puustusmaa said that this bill was absolutely necessary in itself and he supported it, but in the interests of a common understanding, he still had some questions. He examined what was happening at the moment of the massive illegal border crossing in order to be able to implement these standards, and he also wanted to know what the maximum way to prevent: is the use of firearms, for example, allowed or not? Paul Pulpland also examined what would happen if the country to which we wish to send the border crossingrs back was not willing to accept them. Urmas Reinsalu replied that the primary assumption for mass border crossings is that Estonia can still hold these people on the border line, but if we can no longer hold them and there are many people, then the mass attack will begin. It is certainly not a case of individual cases where a person has simply sneaked across the border and the police are not aware of his border crossings, but of situations where there is a substantive appearance of an attack, where force is being tried to cross the border and the police are not able to repel those persons from the border. With regard to the firearm, he added that the use of the firearm is proportionate when the attack involves the use of a firearm or a type of weapon that endangers the lives of border guards. But he believes there are still ways to use force that doesn't lead to casualties. Then Paul Puustusmaa also said that he had the understanding that the use of the Convention on the Status of Refugees was possible in a situation where there was a first country to which refugees were coming, but Estonia was probably not the first country, because these refugees came from somewhere further away. He said that if, for example, people come from Iraq through Russia to Estonia, Estonia is not the first country and these conditions and obligations should not extend to Estonia. He asked if he misunderstood. Urmas Reinsalu explained that one thing is the universal applicability of this convention internationally, but in fact here its interpretation has been given by the European Union. The rules governing the grant of international protection have been laid down in the internal law of the European Union and, according to it, the first country to be considered to be the country through which a person has first reached the territory of the European Union. Toomas Kivimägi said that he thought Urmas Reinsalu would agree with him that the law on the national border would apply to the crossing of the external borders of the European Union to the extent that the Schengen Borders Code is not regulated. He examined whether the draft submitted by the Fatherland was in line with the Convention on the Status of Refugees or whether it would be an obstacle or even contrary to the Convention. Urmas Reinsalu replied that the draft was fully in line with the Convention on the Status of Refugees. Ruth Annus was then given the floor at the Ministry of the Interior and she noted that there are already quite a number of methods in Estonian law that enable Estonia to cope with the emergency caused by mass immigration. In this case, the director-general of the PBGB will decide when an emergency occurs. It also pointed out that the Government of the Republic considers it necessary, however, to clarify the applicable law, such as the role of judicial proceedings. The whole issue of the draft therefore requires a more broad approach. In addition, the European Union has begun to regulate its right to instrumentalised migration, such as the creation of concrete measures for the mass immigration situation that has taken place from Belarus towards Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. The EU has also launched a regulation setting out the conditions under which the EU as a whole can respond. Perhaps this question here was also on behalf of the Fatherland ambassadors, who have left the hall now, but not only have we, at national level, the Ministry of the Interior, taken up this issue and, if necessary, changed or worked in this direction, that yes, also at European Union level, this problem and European law are already being dealt with. Here's the answer. Ruth Annus explained that the Ministry of the Interior has also wondered how it would be best to organise the issue of mass immigration in order to comply with international law and existing European Union law. If the European Commission has come up with a real legislative proposal, then a Member State cannot normally regulate the same area. However, it has to be admitted that the processing of European Union legislation is not very urgent. Ruth Annus said that, on the basis of the foregoing considerations, the Government of the Republic considered draft 489 to be a step in the right direction, but in this matter, amendments to other laws need to be developed and the text proposed in draft 489 amended. It may be discussed whether this should be a matter of security, which should enable people to be excluded from the external borders. It is more of a question of migration within the EU. Ms Russak then spoke, who said that in 2019 she had also been able to introduce to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs amendments to the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and the law on the granting of international protection to foreigners. These changes were made in order to better deal with the emergency caused by mass immigration and were adopted in 2020. The most important change was already foreseen at the time that the PBGB must have sufficient time to determine who border workers are dealing with, what reasons and motives these persons have come to Estonia and then decide whether the persons are to be returned or should be directed to international protection proceedings. For this purpose, the Act created the possibility for persons to be detained for up to seven days with the permission of the Administrative Court in order to carry out proceedings. It was also foreseen that the PBGB would be able to submit such requests for detention on a list rather than on an individual basis as in normal circumstances. In addition, the courts were given the opportunity to make an Alien Detention Order without any descriptive and reasoned knowledge. An opportunity was created to introduce all detention facilities in Estonia, including prisons, in order to limit the services provided to persons. Ele Russak also noted that events at the external borders of Belarus and the European Union have led all Member States to re-examine their laws. The Ministry of the Interior has also carefully considered whether the existing measures are sufficient to cope with the hybrid situation. The Ministry of the Interior considers that in order to prevent and combat mass border crossings, the law on law enforcement contains measures that can be applied by the PBGB. The PBGB can apply all preventive and preventive surveillance measures, including coercion. However, it does feel that it would be very sensible to revise the sectoral laws once again in order to allow for faster return of border crossingrs. He also pointed out that the possibility of derogating from European Union law could be considered and that foreigners who have entered the country could be sent back as a matter of urgency, ignoring the legal channels set up for this purpose. This right has also been confirmed in 2020 by the European Court of Human Rights, which took the view that countries may prohibit an alien from entering the country, including potential applicants for international protection if he or she enters the country in a place not designated for that purpose, and would have been able to lodge his or her application for international protection at the border crossing points designated by the country. The Ministry of the Interior would like to grant the PBGB the right to provide for border crossing points where the person has the right to submit an application for international protection. Similarly, in a situation where a person ignores legal entry channels, the PBGB must have the possibility to promptly return the person. Urmas Reinsalu said that we are talking about somewhat different categories. SiM was talking about speeding up expulsion procedures, and this is all very commendable. This concerns persons who are already on the territory of Estonia, and proceedings are being opened against them. Urmas Reinsalu noted that draft 489 concerns a practical legal gap relating to the prevention of immigration at the border. Ruth Annus replied that the law in force did not provide for a written procedure in this case, but that if a person had crossed the border illegally, whether or not he had applied for international protection, he would be returned from the border to the country from which he came to Estonia across the border. Urmas Reinsalu asked whether the person would be returned to a judicial procedure in which the person would be transferred to the detention centre and the court would rule on him. Ruth Annus replied that the person would be returned to the country where he came from in the same place that he was detained. This tactic was used by Poland and Lithuania. Foreigners are not allowed to cross national borders, both under international law and EU law, in a place not designated for that purpose. Urmas Reinsalu still noted that his question is about the law in force, that if a large number of persons have already crossed the border to the territory of Estonia, how should it be dealt with in accordance with the law in force. Ele Russak replied that, under current law, crossing the external borders is considered a danger of escape and that the risk of escape is the basis for the detention of the person. Detention is possible for more than 48 hours only with the permission of the administrative court. The PBGB is therefore obliged to detain the person and try to send him out immediately. Deportation is subject to an administrative act, which means that the PBGB must make and enforce a letter of departure. If this cannot be done within 48 hours, the PBGB must be authorised by the administrative court to apprehend the person. Urmas Reinsalu then said that he was governed by the law currently in force and that the law in force was inadequate in the light of recent events. If there is a battle situation where there is a mass border crossing, then Estonian police officers must have the right to push these people back from the border. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether the Ministry of the Interior considered that there should be a different legal regime depending on whether the application for international protection was made at the designated border crossing point or if the person had crossed the border at a place not designated for that purpose. Is there agreement with the initiators of the SIM bill on this point? Ruth Annus replied that no one anticipated a hybrid attack like that in Poland and Lithuania. The situation has changed and the international community has realised that people can in principle be used as such to achieve political objectives and destabilise the EU. If SiM could have foreseen such a situation, the Ministry of the Interior would have requested that the amendments in question, which are currently planned, be dealt with as a matter of urgency as early as last year. And here, too, Ruth Annus said that the development of this regulation is now the most important task in the Ministry of the Interior. Oudekki Loone asked the same question as the natural disaster in this Chamber and received the same answer. I'm not gonna go over this again. He also asked about the use of weapons, and in fact, Paul had already received the answer to what I read here in Puustusmaa. Toomas then summed up the topic of Kivimägi, considering that, in his view, too, refusal to accept applications for international protection should not be provided for as an obligation, as currently stated in the draft, but rather as an option for the PBP. Toomas Kivimägi said that he would propose that the first reading of the draft be completed because he wanted this subject to remain topically up. This is an issue that needs the intervention of the legislator. In the last paragraph of the opinion of the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic, in the identity of the Minister of the Interior, admits that it is actually necessary to clarify the law. At the same time, it is also important for the Government of the Republic to note that changes can be made in accordance with the international obligations that Estonia has assumed. Toomas Kivimägi noted that he did not therefore support quite one draft text. At the same time, however, all parties recognise that there is a problem and that there is an urgent need for a solution. On the basis of this debate, the following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 25 January, today, and to propose that the first reading of the draft be terminated and that Mr Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed as the representative of the lead committee. On 24 January, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs met again and since Toomas Kivimägi was unable to report a debate today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs appointed Mart Võrklaev, i.e. mine, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on 24 January. That's what made the decisions, and now I'm waiting for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U500	Thank you. There are no questions. There was a thorough presentation, and we can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be heard during the negotiations. First of all, Heiki Hepner from the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U501	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great pleasure to acknowledge here that we have discussed this important bill, the amendment of the state border law, or it would be more correct to say, so thoroughly and at length about the clarification. And, of course, thanks to Urmas Reinsalu for a very thorough and broad presentation, but also to Mart Võrguship, who also dealt very thoroughly with what was happening in the Commission and gave an overview. There is no doubt that this is by its very nature a very short draft, only two paragraphs, no long text, but the essential substantive draft of our legal space. And it is also true that when we look back at how we have come to this day, indeed, time is extraordinary and extraordinary times require extraordinary solutions. When one country uses people against another country as a weapon, it is really strange to hear that the country against which these people are being used as a weapon falls under accusations that why it protects itself and does not kindly welcome them all. At the same time, the other country that uses these people as weapons is relatively general. And all this at the beginning of this summer we experienced on the border with Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, also on the Polish border later, where there was such a major hybrid attack on the Polish-Belarus border. And this is also driven by Urmas Reinsalu's letter to our Prime Minister that something needs to be done to prevent us from being subjected to an international attack, as if rejecting this human weapon illegally and indeed violating human dignity, but still an unfair weapon against our country. There is a need to improve the law, but unfortunately the government had not reached it. And the effort and the task had to be done and brought before you. And it is really a pleasure and thanks to your colleagues that you have understood the importance of this. Although the government, as we have heard, did not give such a direct yes, they still accepted the problem and were ready to move on to this subject. I hope that this law really will not work out the way we did with the previous one, that we will just vote it out and think that the problem has been solved. I also hope that this law will not wait in the pantry for better times, but we will continue, make the necessary changes that have all risen here, and take them in and secure our country. Because indeed, in times of crisis, action must be taken quickly, and those who do not actually act in a security crisis risk losing their country. This is the high price of not acting in a security crisis. I wish us all the strength to discuss this very important law and at one point to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U502	Thank you. I will not see any more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 489 be terminated. The first reading is closed, and I will set the deadline of 9 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Today's second item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U503	We can move on to the third item. This is the draft law on business register initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 493 SE, we are dealing with first reading and the rapporteur is Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U504	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the Commercial Register Act is to harmonise the regulation of the register of all legal persons governed by private law. There are currently a wide variety of legislation, as well as a wide range of registers and sub-registries. This draft establishes a single register and a single set of rules instead of all these different regulations. In addition, legislation and register keeping will be updated to suit the electronic register and will also be made technologically neutral. In addition, a number of changes relating to registers are made based on the concept of company law presented by the Company Law Review Group, namely Chapter 4 thereof, which was then presented on 15 September 2018. What, then, will be changed in the register? Currently there is not only a register of non-profit organisations and foundations, but also a number of sub-registers: religious associations, trade unions, housing associations, land improvement associations. It will become part of the business register and become part of a single regulation. This will include all private legal entities, including self-employed persons, in the Commercial Register. The whole register procedure will become uniform and understandable. Maybe you don't have to look in different laws for how to act on one occasion or another. The records are divided into three, and they are currently divided into three. Registration card details: here the data that can then be entered is recorded. And in the case of special laws, it's where you write down what's supposed to be written. Here, for example, which data must be entered in the register for housing associations, but which may not need to be entered in the case of religious associations, for example. Public file data, currently referred to as a business file in the Commercial Register, here are other public data. The data in the registry file, it also currently has the same name, this part, and here is the data that is not directly publicly available immediately. In the future, the details of the shareholders of the private limited liability company will also be entered in the register. At present, the shareholders' list is held by the board of directors of the private limited company and, if anyone enters this information in the business register, it is informative, and they may not be up to date, these data. If this information now becomes "legal content" on the commercial register card, it means that if transactions are made with parts of a private limited company, the data in that commercial register can be considered to be correct. So if there's a thing that's not included, it's still what's in the business register that's gonna be right, so there's gonna be a chance to get good faith, and there's gonna be less chance of fraud. The draft also extends the possibility of monitoring the registrar. Unfortunately, as you know, there are quite a few problems with the accuracy, reliability and non-submission of data. The draft creates a number of possibilities for these data collections to be properly implemented and for monitoring and also for drawing attention to people who look at the data in the business register, that it may not be the right data, or that the company is in some kind of problematic situation. What, then, will be allowed to do? An e-business register may be used to indicate any difficulties in contacting. A normal situation, for example, that we have to write down, do not work, do not have active use or do not respond. Information relating to fines relating to a business register shall be recorded in relation to a related natural person and shall be recorded only if there are sufficient numbers to prevent a single fine from being recorded. What's that? For example, the chairman of the board. And what can it be useful for? We know that in the case of troubled companies, there are often so-called "tankers" who are the same people, and if they now have these notes, then if you look at the business records and you can see that the board of directors of this business register is a person who already repeatedly has comments that he does not comply with his obligations, then there is probably a warning that it may not make sense for this company to enter into a transaction. In addition, shareholders of a private company may be fined if the annual report is not submitted. It often happens that there is no manager and then there are only so-called shareholders, or owners, that then there is also the opportunity to turn this fine towards shareholders. Not including reorganisation if one of the parties concerned has or has not submitted an annual report. There is also a possibility, which is often used to make malicious transactions and, for example, to transfer assets and say, to get rid of obligations. In addition, a legal person may be removed from the register if the annual report is not submitted and there is no contact person. The submission of a contact person is mandatory. But this possibility, because it's a pretty tough option, there are two conditions, actually three. First, this legal person has no assets, has no legal proceedings and, for example, if they are presented in annual accounts, within three years it will be possible to reinstate that legal person in the register. The draft also establishes group rules. A little explanation. In particular, parent companies may issue instructions to the members of the management bodies of a subsidiary, which may be in the interests of the parent company, but may oppose the interests of the subsidiary. It is known that the management body may be penalised if they make decisions that are to the detriment of the company. In such cases, where such decisions are taken by the parent company, the parent company shall be liable for its decision if the subsidiary is in a difficult economic situation where insolvency is likely to occur. In other words, the managers of the subsidiary are not responsible if the parent company directs and forces them to make perhaps not the most rational decisions in the view of the subsidiary's interests. The draft provides for the abolition of the minimum capital requirement for private limited liability companies. At present, the minimum capital is EUR 2500, which has been essentially the same since 1995. He was 40,000 kroons back then. At the same time, we realise that its substantial value has been considerably reduced. And I would like to remind you that, from 2011, it will be possible to set up private limited companies without a contribution. In principle, if we create a company, the company's capital should correspond to the risks associated with the company, and this should be considered by shareholders when starting a business and also when carrying out a business. There are certainly companies where the capital needs are small, perhaps this 2500 even seems to be a lot, and there are certainly companies where it is essential that this capital is significantly higher. So, in a sense, it directs owners to think a little about how to capitalise a company both when it is set up and when it is needed to raise capital. Smaller changes are allowed, for example, to book a business name for up to six months, but in justified cases the entry can also be made on a specific date, for example if there are mergers or reorganisations, which may be more complex transactions, and where there may also be links to different parties involved or activities with different business names and market names. In addition, the rules on accounting and auditing of legal persons are brought into line with the Accounting Act and the Audit Audit Law. It also simplifies the winding-up of a single-member private limited-liability company, as there is no need to further protect shareholders. Due to the large volume of development of information systems, this draft would enter into force in three stages. The general entry into force would take place from February 2023, changes to the list of shareholders on 1 September 2023, and entries allowing the reservation of a business name and a fixed date from March 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U505	Thank you. Questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U506	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The first question is that I look at the list of all these cooperatives, and here there is also one European cooperative for all the private limited-liability companies and full-liability companies and land improvement associations, only one. Why don't you open up to us, this is an association in several European Union countries, which it represents [of itself], the European Cooperative Society? Why is there only one of them, and what does he do? Do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U507	Thank you. I certainly don't know what a particular company is doing. I have no knowledge of the activities of any company, and there is probably much to expect anyone to be able to say that. I guess the parties have found that the form of cooperative society is suitable for them because they want to operate in cooperative form in several European Union countries, so they have chosen this form. After all, each one has the option of choosing the form of action that seems to them to be most appropriate in one area or another. There are certainly areas where such cooperative activities are rational and sensible, and then those involved have found that this is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U508	Peter Ernits, again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U509	Yes, thank you, manager. Madam Secretary! I didn't want to know if he was dealing with sausage or oil, but it's just, if there's only one thing in all of this 323786, I was hoping to get a general idea of what this is all about. But the question is, on the one hand, it's a positive thing that these different feathered and furry collections of accounts and all that are being harmonised here. Recently, we were discussing how these state fees were different, and they were different. And I asked here why the land improvement companies had this kind of tax and the private limited companies had a different tax, but I didn't get the answer. I'm asking now. On the one hand, harmonisation, which is positive, but on the other hand, making some entries with different amounts, I do not have those amounts in my head right now, but perhaps... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U510	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U511	Thank you. There are very different grounds for determining the state fees. One principle undoubtedly is that the State fee could cover the costs incurred for the activities associated with that State fee. At the same time, the State, the legislator, also has the possibility to create more favourable conditions on the basis of certain considerations. Well, housing associations, land improvement associations could be lower because it's a cooperative activity, maybe the state wants to see more cooperative activities. The legislator may also see that the parties involved in this activity are perhaps less well-insured in material terms. There may be very different considerations here, so these state fees are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U512	Thank you very much. No further questions. Now we can come here from the Committee on Legal Affairs as a waitress from Vilja Thomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U513	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed the preparation for first reading of the draft Commercial Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic by number 493 at its meeting on 17 January. In addition to the members of the committee, the Commission was invited to act as rapporteur to the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, and, in addition to the Minister, Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Maarit Puhm, adviser to the same department. First of all, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri made a thorough presentation just as he just finished. And I'm not gonna stop at it any longer. In short, I will present these questions which were of interest to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. First, Urve Tiidus asked what would be easier with this bill. And the answer to Maris Lauri was that, if there have been different regulations in several different laws so far, they will now be brought together in a logical order in a single law, regardless of the form chosen for commercial activities. This will make it easier for people to act in accordance with the law. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether the databases previously compiled by the current Business Register Information System Centre and the notaries would be compatible with the new common register. The Minister replied that the draft did not concern the databases used by the notaries. The e-business register is still running. And Vaike Murumets added that much will not change for the citizen, as the e-business register is still the place to communicate with the state. The role of notaries in the division's disposal transactions is not reduced, as such transactions are notarised. Notaries shall provide the necessary information to the commercial register and this information shall serve as a basis for the creation of a legally sound shareholder register. Tarmo Kruusimäe also asked about the integration of information from other databases with the database of the business register and drew attention to the namesakes and the sharing of one address between different companies. Maris Lauri explained once again that the e-business register is not the same. which is a business register. The e-business register is an entrepreneur's portal where, in addition to the data contained in the business register, data from other databases can be added. Not all databases are aggregated, but data are exchanged between different databases where necessary. It is common for information about a person to be associated with his personal identity code and not with namewidgets in order to avoid confusion. There is a financing plan for the development of IT solutions in the business register. European Union funds will be used for development. He added that a number of IT solutions are currently being developed in the area of justice and, if necessary, financial resources can be reallocated on an ongoing basis. The anti-Semimets asked whether the changes would help to combat crime, such as money laundering or other illegal business activities. Maris Lauri explained that, above all, this applies to increasing the credibility of the company, such as sanctioning the failure to submit an annual report and the disclosure of fines relating to the business of a member of the company's management board. In addition, the anti-Semiamets asked whether it had been determined which period and to what extent the fines received would be disclosed. Mrs Murumets said that fines should be disclosed by natural persons, not by legal persons. This is important in order for persons entering into a financial relationship with the company to be informed about the reliability of natural persons operating with the company. Tarmo Kruusimäe wanted to know whether the list of members of the NGO should be included in the business register and whether and how associations would be included in the information system. Maris Lauri explained that fines relating to business activities are included in the register of natural persons and that the publication of the list of members of the NGO is also not mandatory. Ms Murumets confirmed that we are talking about civil court fines in the register procedure, which do not go into the criminal record, for example, for failing to provide the necessary information to the members of the company's management board. And in relation to the lists, the partnership is not concerned with the 493. Moreover, as regards fines, it is undoubtedly not a matter of traffic or warning fines. However, this concerns business-related infringements for which fines have been imposed. And now procedural decisions. The committee president proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 25 January this year. Unfortunately, this has shifted to 26 January, as we are only dealing with yesterday's agenda. There were 8 members in favour of this proposal and one was opposed, or Tarmo Kruusimäe did not support it. The second proposal was to close the reading by 8 and 1 against, the same composition, to propose the deadline for amendments on 8 February at 4 p.m. This decision was consensual and to appoint Vilja Toomas, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. The proposal was adopted by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U514	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Is there a wish to open negotiations by the political groups? I don't see a negotiation request. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 493 amendments at 4 p.m. on 8 February. The first reading is closed and the third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U515	We are going from here to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft law 504 on protection initiated by the Government of the Republic, such an interesting draft law. We ask the Minister of Justice Maris Lauri to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U516	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the law on the protection of whistleblowers is to ensure protection for those people who become aware of and report some kind of violation. In order to commit an infringement, it is illegal, but also inaction, as well as a situation where the purpose of the legislation is to commit an act that is contrary to what, in itself, may not be formally an offence. For example, to explain the matter, when a child defender does or does not do anything to protect a child, even though he or she does not have this legal obligation in itself, he or she has the task of dealing with child protection, but he or she fails to do something, which is why the child's well-being suffers. The infringement may take place in both the public and private sectors. The first question is certainly why such a notifier needs protection. It often happens that people notice a violation of the law, but they do not report it. It's also what the lawbreakers expect. First of all, that they would not be noticed, their actions, and if so, they would not be reported. Why is it not reported, especially when we are talking about a violation of employment, an infringement that has been discovered in a professional situation, which is precisely what this law is about? It is feared that this will be followed by professional harassment, punishment, for example by losing pay or promotion, but perhaps also by losing a job. However, information is needed, because if the infringement is not reported, the infringement cannot be brought to an end, especially if it is done deliberately. What violations, above all, can we address here? Environmental violations, such as trash, are spilled somewhere, are ordered to pour under the forest, work safety requirements are not respected on the construction site, but certainly corruption cases where money is transferred to their own or more favourable conditions are created, perhaps receiving something in return or God knows what to do. The law establishes a system of confidentiality for the notifier, which is what should be the first to protect the notifier. In addition, safeguard measures will be put in place for the notifier when his/her person comes out, and the possibility of punishing the notifier for bullying will be created, but there will also be the possibility of punishing people who knowingly give false information, i.e. using information for other purposes, perhaps for bullying someone else. According to the draft law, the infringement notification system should be of a three-step nature. First internal, then external and then, thirdly, public information. The purpose of the notification of the infringement is to put an end to the infringement and this can be done as quickly as possible by the authority or undertaking in which the infringement takes place. The following interventions can be undertaken by the supervisory authority. That is precisely the logic that this three-step system has been built up. The internal information channel must be set up in all government agencies, constitutional institutions, other public authorities, municipalities with more than 10000 inhabitants or with more than 50 employees, as well as in municipal authorities and other legal entities with more than 50 employees. At least one secure communication channel shall be established. This may be, for example, an email address, a mailbox, which may also be managed by a contractual partner, such as a law firm. The external information channel must be set up by public authorities which supervise or handle offences in a particular area. Public information should be made available after the unsuccessful completion of the previous stages or phase. This is because the infringement can still be brought to an end, in particular by the authority or the supervisory authority. In addition, it is possible to establish at the level of whether the infringement actually occurred, i.e. to prevent maliciously coming to the public immediately with an alleged infringement that did not actually occur. They're still gonna review and assess whether it really happened. It also makes it possible to avoid undue reputational damage, because it is undoubtedly more difficult to explain afterwards that nothing really happened than to prevent such a thing. However, the possibility remains to go immediately to public information, but this is possible in certain limited cases. Public information is not only about going to the press, but also about communicating via social media, for example. What are the conditions for notification, for which this protection arises only in situations where the notification takes place in a situation where this condition of notification has been observed? Firstly, as has been said, there must be a secure communication channel that ensures the confidentiality of the notifier. Confidentiality is not, in fact, the same as anonymity. Following the notification, the notifier must be informed within seven days that the notification has been received and is being handled. There shall be up to three months to deal with the substance, up to six months to be informed outside the institution in justified cases. The notifier must be informed as soon as possible of the outcome of the procedure, even if nothing has actually happened or if so, what has been done. If the notifier is not informed or nothing is done to bring the infringement to an end, the notifier shall be entitled to use the following communication channel: The notifier shall be protected only if he has undergone the notification as described above. The notifier shall, on the basis of objective facts, believe that the infringement will take place. The notifier, when his/her person comes out, shall not be subject to any pressure or threat of pressure. The disclosure of the identity of the notifier is also punishable. The penalties are as follows, they are misdemeanours: for a person up to 300 daily base units, in this case up to EUR 1200, and for a legal person up to EUR 400000. Case abuse is handled by the Police and Border Guard Board, except in cases where the infringement appears in procedures conducted by the kapo. It is also important that notification of an infringement does not preclude the notifier from being held liable for its infringement. According to the proposal, the law could enter into force on 1 June of this year, but companies will be given time to set up internal communication channels until 17 December 2023. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U517	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U518	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Justice! Well, welcome to the introduction of a nice knocking bill. But a lot of questions. The first question is that it has been said here that unfortunately, the culture of information in Estonia is underdeveloped, that is to say knocking that it should be developed. But the specific question now. If inaction, we take the Riigikogu here, let's not go to the Ministry of Justice, that, for example, if a colleague, I see, will not be too respectful of the government, or, for example, during the sitting, will sit in the sauna hall of the health centre or make the toilet seat wet, who should you turn to? And then is that also necessary, is it certain that who guarantees anonymity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U519	Thank you. It's definitely not a knock-on bill. As I say again, this is an infringement when we see an infringement happening, such as a corruption case. After all, we are actually creating this in the country, we have created a situation when we see someone breaking the law on traffic that we can call and let them know that someone is going to drive drunk, for example. So when it comes to breaking the law, you should be informed. And I don't know that any of the cases you described are legally limited, so there's no need to inform them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U520	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U521	Thank you. Dear Minister, Paragraph 12 (2) of the Law states that the public is protected by the notifier in so far as the infringement constitutes an immediate or irreversible threat of damage to the public interest. Could you please give a little more details when there is a draft in the explanatory memorandum, explain what this risk of damage to the public interest in this case means and how this employee can assess it? I understand if we were to say that some activity poses a threat to the health or safety of people, to national security, but precisely this concept of public interest, what does it mean in this case? That was § 12 (2).
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U522	Thank you. This is primarily a situation where something is being done that should be stopped immediately. Figuratively speaking, if you see someone pouring debris under the forest or, let's say, maybe under the forest is, well, this too should actually be reported to the appropriate authority so that they can react quickly. But the public may really be pouring some chemicals at a bathing site, for example, is clearly this procedure, if someone goes swimming in there, could cause a lot of damage. For example, situations where an urgent response is needed, otherwise people will be harmed or... Above all, people, but harm can also occur to the country in some situations. This is where a person must certainly consider whether this matter is important enough. Yeah. And he's got to have a conviction that it's like a violation, that this thing can't be done, let's just say that. I suppose we all understand that, for example, environmentally harmful activities, where some chemicals are really being poured out, are not acceptable. If something can really happen right now, then it makes sense in itself that we react immediately and along this channel, which results. Public information in this case may not be that you're going to the press, but maybe we're going to put it in social media, Instagram or Twitter, so don't go swimming there, I saw that there's a photo, you see, these barrels were poured in with those warning signs on it. Like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U523	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm listening to what you're saying here, and I have a serious question about why we have the police and the prosecutor's office. You're saying, in order to deal with violations, you're saying you need to create a secure reporting channel. Are you saying that we can't trust the police, the prosecutor's office or the defense police that they're not safe? Or are you also going to do some sort of separate secret unit that's going to deal with such violations, offences, as you called it? So, what do we have with the police, what do we have with the police and the DA's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U525	Thank you. I will explain once again that this law does not change the procedure for infringement proceedings. There's gonna be a situation here where a person who notices something would let you know. In order for the police to be able to do what they do and start processing, he needs to know about it. If no one reports this, if, for example, cases of corruption are concealed, they are not reported, then it will certainly be much more difficult to detect. That is precisely what criminals are really trying to do, so that these things are not discovered, so that they do not speak. And the person on the job, I stress once again, these are working things, if you see such things, work-related issues, you let me know. A person often does not do so because he fears that when he reveals, his identity will come out and be bullied for it. If we want these things to be brought to an end, then people must be given the opportunity to overcome their fears and to report offences to those who can stop this violation. Of course, for the time being, this could take place in the company, in the establishment on the ground, but there must certainly also be an opportunity to contact the authorities that carry out the monitoring procedures. And just as much as a chance to go to the police or the DA's office to let you know. And let it be known, not anonymously, but confidentially, that their identity does not immediately turn out that, as long as it is possible, this person will not be bullied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U526	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U527	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you introduced this law, you gave such an example of life itself, that it would be as if it were a vicious law, a law with which we could begin to apprehend malicious childguards now. But I'll also give you one example of life itself, right, just the same. That here, in this summary of content and in the explanation, this approach protects a potentially offensive institution or company from potential reputational damage. And now, at the time of money laundering, for example, if the teller had gone and announced inside the bank that he saw that someone there, his coworker, was dealing with money laundering operations, and we know that this actually ended with a very serious reputational loss not only for the bank but for the entire Estonian state, then if this law had been in force, would we still not know that Swedbank was laundered by a large amount of money, just to have avoided the reputational damage by this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U528	Thank you. For example, in money laundering cases, if a person had reacted immediately when he noticed that something was being done, not, for example, letting this money laundering work for years, he would have announced immediately, then he would first have received immediate intervention from the bank and, if the bank had not reacted, the response from the supervisory authority, so that the money laundering could not have become as large and as extensive as he left. There were reasons why a person might not have done so. Maybe a lot of people didn't. In the end, there was one person who did it, but a lot of people, seeing it maybe side by side, didn't react. Yeah, well, the question is always about punishment, but there are things where it makes more sense for us to react when this thing just starts, right now. For example, a safe working environment, when it is reported that the work environment is dangerous, for example, a "lower-level manager" on a construction site does not seem to want to deal with it, although maybe the workers have said that this is not quite the case, and now that the employee is reporting it to bigger bosses, it is in their interest to end the situation, and I think it is also in the interests of the workers to stop it. So like this. The faster the reaction, the faster it will be possible to put an end to the lawless activity, and the faster and less damage resulting from the illegal activity. Of course, when the law is actually broken, when it is reported, the police, the prosecutor's office or other supervisory authority can also act and still punish. Do we always need to achieve this situation so that all crimes go as far as possible and the damage is as great as possible? I think it is in the interest of all of us that if anything is done to get them, misdemeanours should be tracked as soon as possible and these misdemeanours should be brought to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U529	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U530	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This gold-worthy law under the directive directs people to report offences, but also not offences related to work activities. And here's the question: does it lay down the offences and not the offences that must be reported when they are connected with working time, and it also concerns relations between men and women, relations between their sexes and different sexes, issues of employment, equal treatment in professional relations? Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U531	Yeah, thanks! Since our constitution already requires people to be treated equally, of course, if some people are not treated equally or are being bullied because they are, I don't know, a male or a female or have any other characteristics, it is, of course, a violation and a breach of law. This should be notified and terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U532	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U533	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Let's go to the so-called lawn level. You said someone was throwing a chemical somewhere, but a much more common chemical is just when someone pees in the water, either in the pool or in the lake, but sometimes something thicker. You write here that you should actually make sure that too small municipalities can have these hint channels on smaller ones, as we take together in such a way that Elva's great parish is enough there, one clue channel that if the blood flow in the lake happens, but advice or, or the municipality of Luunja or Peipsiääre. So they could have some kind of joint channel? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or what kind of logic is that in the case of municipalities...?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U534	Time for your question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U535	Thank you. As the law states, a communication channel, at least one, must be set up in municipalities and institutions of a certain size. If desired, more than one can be made. Well, that's a choice. And, of course, we also have some smaller municipalities, there is no obligation on them in themselves, but assuming that their interest is also to find out about certain infringements and to stop them, they can co-operate with each other and make this common communication channel. Nobody says no.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U536	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U537	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum opens the point of § 16 (1). We are talking about pressure measures, and they also mention that it is forbidden to send you to a psychiatric consultation or treatment. And frankly, when I read it, I can't tell you how good it was that I sat down because it seemed that this bill was from 1950. We know it's hard for us people to get to a psychiatrist, and now we're outlawing the law, or we think they're gonna send the bad guy to Ants' psychiatrist. Maybe they'll send him to the moon, but do you really think they'll send him to a psychiatrist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U538	I don't know what they're gonna do on the board of Division Hard Hand if they find out someone's been reporting something. Human fantasy, as we know, is quite infinite. Clearly, there are certain situations in which a person may be blamed for this and said that he should not be listened to because he is mentally ill or has some mental problems and that he should go somewhere. This is precisely the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U539	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U540	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that you've been hiding in a closet somewhere for quite some time and you don't know what's going on in real life. You're saying you need a communication channel. If I call the police for a crime or misdemeanor, I'll notify them. The police are interfering. When I see a fire, I call 112, they respond, they come to help. When I see, as you said, the chemical being spilled off to the beach, I'll call the Environmental Inspectorate. They're responding. When I see a safety breach that I've seen myself when I've been tournament on the roof with no ropes, I called the Labour Inspectorate. They're responding. No one's gonna let me know. The police have internal control, they're responding. The bank has its own supervision and so on and so on and so on and so forth. In addition, there is a corruption reporting channel in Tallinn in the sense of local government, which can be used. Why are you creating a law that actually turns on a functioning system?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U541	Thank you. He doesn't turn anything on his head, he adds some elements here. You are a very good person when you report what you see and what you find to be a violation of the law. But once again, there are people in their workplace who see that there is some kind of violation, and they do not want to report it, because they fear that when they report, their actions will be known and persecuted. Unfortunately, that is the case. It is precisely with this kind of situation that I hope that these situations are few, that the law deals with the fact that if a person sees something, he would not be bullied. It is good for you that nothing has happened to you when you report to the police and in various other situations, but there are situations where a person informs you that we have also had situations in Estonia where a person reports, his/her person comes out immediately and he/she is being bullied. Unfortunately, in the institution, this opportunity exists, a person may lose his job and so on. Unfortunately, such situations exist. So it's just for people who can see, but for some reason, they don't want to inform. They want security so something happens to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U542	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U543	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You are always saying that this law is for people to be afraid to report, report, or not want to report, otherwise, and now it is necessary to set up these channels of communication. I wonder, as it were, why should a person who saw an offence trust more precisely these channels of communication than, for example, law enforcement authorities? And I also have the question whether you want to say by saying that, contrary to what the public has claimed, the people do not therefore trust the police and the prosecutor's office that there is a need to make such secret channels, in which you believe that it is awfully hard to call and report. And how do you think they're gonna want to report to that channel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U544	Thank you. I would like to remind you that a three-step information system has been set up here, the first stage of which is internal communication. Perhaps if a person sees that in a workplace, whether in a public institution, perhaps in a larger company, something is being violated, he or she will report it within his or her own institution rather than contact a supervisory authority immediately. Step one: Towards the job. After all, there's a place on the job where you can solve problems the fastest. That's why it's the first channel, a job-based notification. Such channels have already been set up voluntarily in some institutions, so it is, I think, meaningful and perhaps particularly meaningful in the public sector, where often they are not the most correct decision-making processes where a person sees, but does not let us know, because he does not know who to pass on to. That if there's such an opportunity to let you know safely. A person also has this situation that he usually communicates with his most direct boss and that in fact, problems should be transmitted to "business excellence" or to excellence, where he would then be able to deal with and solve problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U545	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U546	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Maris Lauri, You have a total terminological confusion: the reporter is a snitch, he's a snitch. Do you realize that you are now fulfilling Stalinist dreams? Do you realize that the snitching is starting to ruin the lives of thousands and thousands of people from some MeTo scandals and ending with completely fabricated accusations that for years can ruin people and drive them away from life? It's criminal what you're doing here right now. Do you realize how criminal this is, what you're doing here right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U547	Thank you. In the case of this law, if someone gives maliciously false information that someone has violated something, that person will be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U548	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U549	Thank you. I'm trying to ask you a little more balanced. First of all, as far as this previous point is concerned, this public interest, I think you should perhaps discuss a little bit in the ministry, this explanatory statement can be better furnished. Well, I imagine it would be possible to appeal to an official who, just before the elections, sees an offence committed by a political leader and considers it necessary to inform the public before people come to the vote so that they do not make a decision without knowing that the law is being violated. But that's it. The second such questionable point in the draft is that the infringement is not only unlawful or unlawful, but also an act or omission which is contrary to the purpose of the legislation. And now I'm asking you. In general, the right could be that a regular worker, when he reads it, understands it, understands what is expected of him or what his rights are. How, then, should a person evaluate the purpose of the law and act accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U550	Thank you. In my report, I tried to explain this point a little bit, because this topic came up for discussion in the Commission. This may be, for example, a situation where an official is assigned relatively general objectives that he or she must pursue. It may also have activities that are very clearly described in what its tasks are, but in some respects there is a margin of discretion. And as an example here, it is precisely the child-protection situation. The child defender's job is to protect the child and he/she certainly has the task of doing it, the second and third things he/she should do, or where he/she may choose. But there might be a situation that we can't put into the law, which he should do. He should react, he should do something, but formally it's not written in the law, it's written in the manual that he has to do it. It's like a matter of substance. And what has been said about this draft, about this communication, is that the person who informs must have the inner sense that it is precisely a contradiction when he sees that person not fulfilling his obligation. For example, what are child protection obligations? We have, unfortunately, read these stories, where everything is formally fine, but a person, by virtue of his duties, could have taken another step and done something. But he doesn't, because he says he doesn't. And the purpose of this appeal is that perhaps this child defender will be interviewed and told that he would not, as it were, always point the finger at the finger, but that he would follow the task of protecting the child. I hope I've been able to explain that logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U551	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U552	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm very embarrassed to ask such questions, but I'm old enough, and I remember from the previous regime that such institutions were, in every institution, the first department. It was the KGB's kind [Department] that very kindly accepted [Accept] all anonymous complaints. And here I see the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the He who complains, he has all kinds of rights and protection, but the one who's being accused, I don't see any right in this law. And also, this same experience teaches me that the most serious violations are precisely by the bodies that receive these complaints, because they are not controlled by anyone. There should be some other body where you can complain about who is handling these complaints. Don't you think there are dangers here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U553	Thank you. I certainly understand your concern, and when I heard about this bill myself, I had similar questions. It is precisely this system that is built here that, first, it is a three-step system. Finally, if the offence actually happens, if the person reports, if there is no reaction to it, maybe it is the solver who does not solve it, whether it is an internal or external call of the first year, and does not react and does not stop the infringement, then the person has the opportunity to go to the public. That's actually what they're doing right now. There's always a chance. The other thing is, surely, that if a person lets you know that there's a violation, he really thinks there's a violation, good-heartedly thinks something's wrong, it turns out that there isn't, then they let him know that there's nothing really going on here, then he can go on. But if he's still convinced and he has some facts about it... But, once again, if he goes and makes a malicious complaint and raises problems with it, that is, he takes up and goes public immediately as a first step, and he does not have the clause that there is an emergency situation here, then this person will not be protected. He can be punished both for making false complaints and also for having the opportunity to bring a civil action before the courts. And, of course, if there are other options, there is still a way to impose penalties on someone who does it maliciously. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] No, I'll tell you again, it's not an anonymous complaint, it's confidential. It simply means that his person is aware of who is making this notification, but it is not disclosed immediately, or at least, let us say, in such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U554	This is Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U555	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It seems to me that if an Estonian person still sees a violation of the law, he will turn to the police. I don't think he's gonna use that kind of communication channel anywhere. It seems to me that this channel of communication may become more of a place to introduce mental control. Let's get this real. A teacher of gymnasium X in one of Estonia's upper secondary schools tells a joke where the main character is Negroes or LGBT people or someone else. The biology teacher hears it and feels awfully insulted and bad. Is this the law now so that the biology teacher has a communication channel to turn to, that the physical education teacher tells such stupid jokes in the teachers' room? Why don't you give me a little judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U556	Thank you. As far as I know, speaking foolish jokes is not prohibited by Estonian law. So it's okay to keep talking, it's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U557	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U558	Yeah. Oh, Judas, I'd say about that. I don't know where to start again. First of all, is there going to be an additional database? You say these complainers are as if they are, or the reporters are anonymous. One minute they're not anonymous anymore. Let's take the example of a local government. Local authorities are also checked through the audit committee, for example. Do the members of the audit committee automatically receive these complaints from that database or what is meant for? Will internal control be dealt with by informing the head of the field on this issue? Why has a limitation of 50 employees or 10000 inhabitants been introduced in the territory of the municipality, where then the relationship between the working family and the population of the local government is concerned about this draft? To be honest, it's like porridge and cabbages that don't understand anything. To whom will this database be created, and who will resolve the issues in the database by the end of the day?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U559	Thank you. No database is created. There's a channel. For example, an email address. It may be, as I pointed out in my report, it may be outside a particular company, as an example of a law firm, they have a contract, it is written as "a clue," and then it has an address. The Bureau gets an e-mail, there's a human e-mail down there, a person can be identified, he's not anonymous, he's confidential. Then this office person finds out, gets that information. He's going to the company where the information comes from that there's been some kind of violation. Says I've had information that you might have a violation of this kind. "Do you have some kind of problem over there? Please, check it out. " He does not reveal the person who has approached him. The company can see if, for example, the construction site manager does not meet the safety requirements, you can look, it turns out, it really does not meet the requirements, you can take steps. The person who made this notification will never come out. No one can bully that person in any way. If there was actually no violation, there's gonna be a message to this person that there was no violation, it's okay, okay? It's like a place of choice. It's certainly not the place that people keep something, let's say that if it's anonymous, then it's like there's anonymous stuff, that you can look it up, but no one has an obligation. That, above all, there is still the confidentiality that a person who notices that his or her identity does not come out immediately and that he or she would not use it maliciously.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U560	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U561	Thank you, George! Dear Minister, I was already very critical of this draft in the Commission, and I am still convinced that this is a completely unnecessary legislative screw-up. However, I know that it is based on the European Union directive. We know that there are all kinds of funny directives in the European Union that are being sent to us. However, the legal creation of the European Union is also such that there are different paths for regulations and directives. The directives are not directly applicable and do not have to be implemented if we ourselves have sufficient regulation. And in my opinion, there is sufficient regulation in our law. The question is: did your ministry not consider responding to the European Union's bosses, that we do not need to apply this directive here, because we have sufficient regulation for these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U562	Thank you. I must mention that this draft and this directive were dealt with by my predecessors, Urmas Reinsalu and Raivo Aeg as ministers. And indeed, Estonia has put forward a number of questions and problems, which are questionable in the particular case of this draft or this initiative. All those reproaches that Estonia had and made by Mr Reinsalu, all these problems were solved. I have everything beautifully listed that there were such reproaches and such regulatory changes were and such solutions were proposed. So we are active in this, or mean that Estonia has actively participated in the development of this draft itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U563	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U564	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I think you're misleading people and you're asking them to complain, promising not to find out about them, but that's probably not the case, unless it's a criminal case. As we know, in the case of misdemeanour proceedings, we do not have the protection of a witness, and if it is to be dealt with, we need to know who has specifically complained. Let's say, even if there isn't a misdemeanor, that someone else is going to be fired because of some kind of violation of the institution or because of a breach of the company, it's just difficult to say that it was, and there is no other testimony. So how do you comment on that? If there is no criminal case, it cannot be said that the name of the person against whom he has made a hint or a complaint will not be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U565	Thank you. When you listened carefully, I said not to be informed immediately. If procedural processes arise, then yes, according to Estonian law personal data will be made public. But only if it really gets to that point. In fact, it is often the case that an infringement is reported, that the infringement is eradicated. It is not necessary, especially when it comes to internal information, to immediately follow up any legislative response. You don't have to go to the police or go to court or do anything. This is the situation when the matter is resolved before any specific procedures are brought to light. Then, in such a situation, the person's name will be protected, or that he announced it, precisely in order to eliminate or rule out infringements as soon as possible and in the initial phase. Yeah, well, if it goes any further, then there's really a person as a witness, and then his identity comes out. But then he'll have other protection... We have these safeguard clauses, but in a situation where people just notice, but they don't get there yet... Let's say the violation ends before he gets into some kind of procedure, then in this situation, a person's protection will be created. That is not what we have in our current legal space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U566	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U567	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Clearly, you have not read Solzhenitsyn's book The Gulag Archipelago, which speaks very specifically of such a system of informants and a system of reporters, which resulted in millions being carried away to the camps where they died, and few came back from there. I have no doubt that this is the directive that the European Union has given us in favour of the reptiles that offer it to us, that the measures used by the Stalinist regime will be taken in order to divide the Estonian people, to complain against each other, and that the aim is to establish a global order. I say to you frankly and frankly: I mean, this draft can really go to the moon, because we have absolutely worked out the whole system of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U568	Thank you. I'm not gonna drive to the moon.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U569	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U570	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You're too young and maybe as a result naive enough not to say stupid. You don't remember the icy fear that my generation's children felt when they lived in the Stalinist Soviet Union. You don't know what it was like when a knock knocked on the door. You don't know when they called the principal's office and they said there was a complaint about you. What do we do with it now? But I know, I remember. You're telling us some euphemisms, some discretion. Listen, the KGB Troika also had discretion. They also had a discretion as to whether to crush their fingers with a hammer or some other instrument. You're offering us something here that absolutely doesn't belong to our society, and you're not ashamed of it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please admit that you are performing as a foreign instrument the task of building a dystopian society. (The President: "The Good Asker, Your Time!")
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U571	Thank you so much for the compliment. I'm old enough to remember the Soviet system and how it worked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U572	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U573	Thank you. Honourable Minister! I am also of the opinion that it is extremely regrettable that we are forgetting our historical experience so quickly. And certainly here too, Eastern Europe and Central Europe and Western Europe have different history and their different experiences and different cultures, and the same way of introducing such drafts that come from Brussels is dangerous. And, in my opinion, this bill is a real example of the Pavlik Morozov cloning bill, which devastates social morality and creates additional terrible bureaucracy. But I have a specific question in addition to this assessment. Who will supervise these so-called hotlines or the appeal process, whether they are still being processed and if not, why are they excluded, and where will the specialists who are going to make decisions come from? In working groups, I would like to draw attention, not at the prosecutor's office or at the relevant law enforcement bodies, but at all working groups there will be investigators and judges. What preparation and where can these people come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U574	Thank you. I don't know where you read out of this bill that detectives and prosecutors come to all institutions and so on. Once again, the clue channel means that it may be, for example, an email address where it is reported that there is a possibility that an offence may be committed there or in that place, according to the notifier. How will it be delivered? It's definitely up to the institution, depending on the people. Perhaps it is sufficient to review whether safety requirements are being observed at the construction site. Perhaps it is enough to review whether the decision-makers in the procurement procedure are really considering and not sharing the outcome of the procurement with their friends and acquaintances. As far as I know, in the larger companies, internal controls also review these procedures and processes from time to time. So there's no need for any additional people to work for it. All the more so, I really hope that there will be no mass violation of the law in Estonia and at all different levels. And these violations are really few, seldom, and those people who do not want to use ways, ways of informing that there are few. So there will be very little use of confidential communication channels. So this is just one way to solve certain situations, one way to do it. There will be no additional bureaucracy here, just a small opportunity to announce the violation of the law, as I said in the case of procurement, in the case of work-related matters somewhere. It doesn't involve employing any people, or I don't know, creating any systems. And, of course, this system is as described in three stages that before, first of all, one could try to solve the matter within the company and there is this security that maybe the person most needs when he sees that something is being violated. Report to the supervisory authorities next. In Estonia, these channels really do exist, not all institutions, but most of them do. And third, there's a chance to go public when a person is really being bullied and is a violation and it's not responding.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U575	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U576	Thank you. Good minister! I congratulate you on the triumph of lawmaking. Indeed, I have found such a sentence, which comes out of the Council's pathos, that the draft concerns the entire working population and so on. However, it has also been said here that the constitutional institution has a duty to set up communication channels. The Riigikogu is a constitutional institution. And now I get really worried because when I read here who gets protected from knocking, there are officials and self-employed and shareholders and sports support. The person receiving cultural support and the person receiving educational support are not for some reason, but there are no members of the Riigikogu in the same way. We won't get protection if we start knocking on each other according to the law. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So how are you gonna solve my big problem now? Do we have to choose another such knock trust person in addition to the President of the Riigikogu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U577	Thank you. I'm sure it's a very important question. I would like to remind you that members of the Riigikogu are served by a number of officials and employees; they may need an information channel in their professional situations. Secondly, I would like to remind you that members of the Riigikogu are not employees. Maybe you don't have an employment relationship, so it won't work for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U578	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U579	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We know that you are already preparing the hate speech law that is being imposed on us by Europe in your ministry. But when today's law and the hate speech law you're planning to make work together in our legislative space, it's quite clear that we'll be able to see a witch hunt we've never seen before. I understand that Europe is imposing all sorts of disgusting things on the Member States, but why do you need it? Why are you doing all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U580	Thank you. Now it's a story where you know more about the drafts made at the Ministry than I do. I don't know if there's some hate speech law coming up. So I don't understand your logic a little bit. And secondly, I have repeatedly explained here what the purpose of this draft is. The purpose of this bill is not for people to complain. Instead, the appeal will be punished. In this case, if someone does so, he may not in itself be punished very easily if he is spreading a lie. We have to go to court, and it's a much longer process. Here, this bill hopes that if a person spreads a lie, complains about things that have not happened, then the Police and Border Guard Board will immediately punish that person in a misdemeanour procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U581	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U582	Thank you, Honorable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Can you explain in more detail exactly how this information channel is going to work, what you're talking about? I understand that if I understand correctly, these clues will first reach the law firm somewhere, and then a notice will be sent to the institution that has been complained about. How, who decides when to initiate the procedure, will it be possible to initiate the procedure? On what basis will this decision be made? How does this procedure finally lead to a possible punishment and so on? This whole process is going to be a little blurry. Please describe this in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U583	Thank you. Glad to hear you're interested in the details. The aim of this process is to create a single communication channel. As an example, it could be an email address, it could be a mailbox, it could be, well, let's say here the company-institution has a chance to solve this thing in a very different way. This e-mail address, as I mentioned, could be some kind of law firm. This may be an e-mail address used, for example, by internal controls, in a large number of institutions internal controls are mandatory. These people get a clue, the reporter sees an infringement, says that he thinks it's a violation of the law, that such a thing is done. Whoever gets the information, it's up to him first to let the person know that yes, we got your notification, whatever channel he came on, and then to see and try to find out if that violation really happened. And there is definitely a choice here to determine whether or not this violation actually occurred or whether or not it is happening. And if this happens, then, of course, according to the nature of the infringement, the response must also be made. And here's the freedom of choice. But the objective is, in fact, to ensure that the infringement is brought to an end, and it is precisely from this point of view that a choice must be made. The fact is that there may be an infringement that is very small. This can be resolved quickly, reminding the foreman, for example, that wearing helmets on a construction site is mandatory and that he must make sure that everyone wears helmets. But it could also be something that leads to the discovery of a crime that has actually been committed. Well, I don't know, a corruption crime or a major type of theft. Anything can happen, so there is flexibility in that sense. Once again, the procedure, how it is done, is not written down by this law. It prescribes how to inform, who needs to be informed, what rules to follow. I've read the stages of how this is supposed to work. And if there's anything in this process, let's say, if a person knowingly gives false information, he'll be punished. If a person who has declared that there is an infringement starts to bully him when he is being bullied at work for that reason, the bullies will be punished. So these are the opportunities created by this law. This law does not deal with the way in which one or the other of the offences is dealt with specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U584	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U585	Yes, I have a procedural announcement that the Minister was lying about the remote. And the lie has just as short legs as it is on Google's phone. Let's get rid of it and it's going: "Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, the hate speech law comes with a prison sentence.'; 'The law of hate speech, in particular the law of hate speech, is still coming'; 'Justite Minister Maris Lauri: the government is reopening the draft law on hate speech or hate speech'; 'Justite Minister Maris Lauri says that the law on hate speech comes with a prison sentence'. This is where it goes, and you say you don't deal with hate speech law, it doesn't exist and it doesn't come. Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U586	Thank you. Let's keep going. Andres Metsoja. I'm sorry! Well, I guess it's just that somebody might have a broken mike, so we'll find out soon enough. Kalle Grünthal, you have a procedural question. Is there a problem with the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U587	Thank you, Mr President. We are now in a situation where the Minister of Justice is clearly lying to the members of the Riigikogu, saying that there is no hate speech law and there is no coming. And a moment ago, Helle-Moonika Helme reads that there really is. How can such a lying minister be on the remote now and share explanations? Are there any options for the management board of the Riigikogu or a member of the Riigikogu? We're doing some serious business here, and now they're coming here to lie to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U588	Thank you. No one can lie. No, I'm not really going to judge whether or not someone's told me the wrong information. At the moment, we are processing bill 504. You have the opportunity to ask: your group has the opportunity to speak in favour of the group at first reading. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U589	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, we live in a time when a specialist chooses a company. We know the hands are missing. We know that the entrepreneur must work every day to ensure that he is wanted to work. This is actually the base where we live in real time today. It still doesn't make any sense to me that we're creating some kind of information channel in parallel. And I'll ask you this. You mentioned either an e-mail address or a mailbox. Many industrial companies have such a coffee corner with a table on the wall where they just put the message "Ants, damn it, smear the machine! Don't do it!" And that information will be retrieved from there, and that work will be done. Can it continue to be interpreted as such an exchange of information? Or does it necessarily have to be somehow recreated? Would you mind commenting again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U590	Thank you. The possibility of setting up a communication channel can be decided by each institution that has to set up this channel itself in what way it will do so. There are certain stages in the logic of this draft. Of course you can put it on that wall. And I think that if this thing is solved, it hasn't really been reported in the sense of the law. The other thing is when a person puts up an "Ants, fix it and oil it off" and signs his name, right, I don't know Peter or Mati or whatever he is there, and after that, Ants starts to bully that person about why he put that sign up there and humiliated him like that, let's say that. But then the question arises as to whether this is a legitimate communication channel. It may not be within the meaning of this law, as this information channel does not guarantee the confidentiality of the notifier. So if things can be solved just like that, it's really nice. But just in case, there may be an e-mail address where you can report violations. And it's really nice to never have to use that email address. But, unfortunately, I am not convinced that this applies to all institutions and jobs. And certainly I would like to comment a little more on this interest of employers. Unfortunately, we have regions in Estonia where people have very little job choice and because of this they are, let's say, extremely comfortable with things that maybe well-educated and very professional people in this region of Tallinn are not afraid of, but they may be very afraid of losing a job in their smaller settlement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U591	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U592	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. We are in an unprecedented situation right now. The Minister of Justice has come to explain to us his proposed bill, as well or as badly as he can. Well, that's a 'preparation' level, and there can basically be no reproach. What has happened, however, is that the minister has lied directly to the members of the Riigikogu, which has immediately been overturned by Helle-Moonika. Okay. The very important question for me right now is how we can proceed with this draft procedure, because we do not know when the Minister will take the trouble to lie again or when he will tell the truth. As it is, it is illogical to continue processing this bill now, because the Minister has lost credibility in the eyes of the Riigikogu. Do we have any tools in this law on our home and working procedures that will allow, let's say, the lying minister to be removed from the draft presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U593	Thank you. Once again, I certainly cannot judge, is it wrong or is it not wrong. Point one. Point two is that I am absolutely convinced, at least I believe that members of the Riigikogu and members of the government, we do not lie here in this honourable Riigikogu hall, either on the spot or in a chair of speech. Thirdly, what are these possibilities? You know very well, Mr Grünthal, that the possibilities for dealing with the draft 504 SE arise from our home and working procedures. In order to reject the first reading, the second reading and the third reading must be rejected. In that sense, Helle-Moonika Helme immediately announced with a procedural question how he felt about the information that the Minister said. So these are the odds. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U594	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We are also undoubtedly looking at a number of entrepreneurs who are involved in construction, who in the metal industry, who in another place, and I think they are extremely excited to follow this debate and think that it is interesting that the Labour Inspectorate is constantly checking them: they have had to carry out occupational risk assessments everywhere, a huge number of different instructions, safety instructions in safety at work, they have had to appoint a professional working environment, and then the question arises as to what their role is now. The good minister here today has repeatedly given examples of how you can begin to anonymously report that someone goes around the construction site without a helmet and so on. Well, for heaven's sake, quoting the classics. Where have we come from? A good colleague, Reuben Kaalep, asked about what this process looks like, who this law firm is or where they are going and how it works. Please open up now in real life how it's gonna be. How will a construction company have this whole move from the moment a person complained about something, and what happens to him when he makes a false complaint and repeatedly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U595	Minister, I would like to apologize to you for a moment. Since there is a procedural question, it is my duty to give the floor. A procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U596	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would point out that indeed Helle-Moonika Helme showed the sources on which he argued and confirmed that the Minister had lied. And I can confirm that. In the past, the Minister has also repeatedly said in his interviews and in other places that the law of hate speech is coming, and here today he lied to us that such a thing is not on the agenda. We know it's on the agenda. Secondly, this draft, which the Minister is presenting to us now, is clearly at odds with the fundamental rights that our constitution guarantees us. That is a clear contradiction. Only, I don't know, legally, everything legitimate, everything twisted, everything inverted, can say that there is no contradiction. That's a contradiction. Making people complain and muzzle each other, censoring people's free debate is clearly contrary to our constitution. I would ask you to suspend the President's right to deal with this draft. I dare go so far as to express my deepest surprise that you, as the leader of one of the coalition's parties, have allowed such a thing in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U597	Thank you. I'll answer your procedural question. First of all, if someone in this Chamber feels they have been given false information, we have the opportunity to express it as members of the Riigikogu, to ask for it. Let this be a written question, let this be an inquiry. You have given, you also said yourself, that Helle-Moonika Helme immediately announced this with a procedural question. Now that you say that I, as chairman, would interrupt this procedure, I do not have this possibility in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Yes, I know that there are, at the moment, two proposals for rejection of this draft on this table, and I will deal with these proposals when we get to this stage of the procedure. As President, I cannot in any way speed up, postpone or interrupt this draft. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U598	Thank you. However, I reaffirm that these are the words of Minister of Justice Maris Lauri: the law of hate speech comes with a prison sentence. He's said it himself, and it's all over the Internet. So I actually have a procedural proposal that the party leading the coalition, the Reform Party, whose minister is Maris Lauri, would call it off the minister's desk and also call it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U599	Thank you. I would like to ask that we proceed now with questions and answers. It was Rene Chef who asked the question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U600	Thank you. Certainly, most Estonian entrepreneurs, companies are very law-abiding and are following the rules that have been laid down. Unfortunately, one hundred percent cannot be certain that all companies, all employees of companies, will comply with the law at any moment. These examples that I have given are very simply to bring possible situations closer to the audience. They do not concern any particular company, no construction sites, but simply as an example that may happen if, for example, safety rules are not respected. Even if they're there. And inspectors often do, but I remind you that they don't always go there and they stay there permanently, but they go there from time to time. So these are the situations. I am not saying that one or the other solution must be made, but that these can be very different points of solution, where there is a violation of the law and where intervention is necessary, it would be necessary to put an end to the infringement. That's what this bill does. And indeed, if a person notices that there is a violation of the law, he will let you know. Inside the institution, for example, I stress once again, these are examples, each institution has a chance of quite a degree of flexibility. Here is one way, as I have said, to send an e-mail address, ask a question and point out through the e-mail address that there is an infringement. This infringement may be examined or it means that it should be checked whether it is indeed the case or not. If there is an infringement, it makes sense that the infringement should be brought to an end as a matter of urgency. That's what this law does.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U601	Thank you. Now it's a procedural question again. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U602	Yes, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to inform the President that we will take our questions off and leave the hall to protest against the presence of a lying minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U603	Thank you. Question, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U604	Thank you. Thank you for the rhetoric with which you really want to protect the working people of Estonia. I would remind you that Estonian workers are actually entitled today to report confidentially all kinds of violations, especially those relating to the safety of the working environment. They shall be able to address the employees' trustee, have access to an official and keep their own name confidential. However, the right that they do not have is to leave the post, even if it is dangerous for them. Don't you think we're gonna start by protecting the working people a little bit from the wrong end? We'll give them some e-mail address they can write to, but they can't leave a post that's dangerous to them. They don't have the right to walk out tonight. Maybe we could solve a real problem first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U605	Thank you. Undoubtedly, if there is a real problem, then there must be a real solution to the problem. This bill not only solves situations where there are accidents at work, but may also be other offences, as I have repeatedly pointed out in this panel. And not all these violations may have to do with damage to a person's situation as an employee, but they may also have to do with damage to the state, for example, through improper use of state budget resources, corruption, corruption in private companies. It does not deal so narrowly with the issue, but undoubtedly, if there is a problem, then the problems must also be addressed. Solving the problems of the working environment is the responsibility of another minister, so I hope he will deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U606	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask Mr Marek Jürgenson, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good fellows, who are still in this hall! Yes, indeed, the draft 504 SE issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs was discussed on 17 January this year. Commission members Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast took part in the Commission's work. Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, presented to us as well. And for such a heated debate, of course, we did not go to the Committee on Legal Affairs. But all that Maris Lauri told us today in this Chamber, he also presented it to us in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Although, in the course of the discussion in this Chamber, there is much more of this information, I think, for everyone who listened and was in this Chamber. But it is my duty, then, to give an overview of what happened in the Commission. Of course, certain questions were also raised in the Commission. Right from the beginning, the bill was called the whistleblower bill. Although in this hall today these so-called names for this bill came in considerably more, but a good child still has several names. And Urve Tiidus asked how the current draft relates to the protection of whistleblowers and what sociopsychological impact the draft could have, given the historical experience of Estonians with the informers, which Minister Maris Lauri replied that this bill could be called a draft for the protection of whistleblowers. And important, which also involved so-called false complaints. The Minister also added that if it were found that the notified infringement was not true and had been transmitted maliciously, the notifier would know and be punished. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked how members of the Riigikogu should view those offences that are written to them by citizens, the residents of Estonia. And on the proportionality of the fine, Tarmo Kruusimäe was a question. Kätlin-Chris Kruusmaa, who supported the Minister in the Commission, replied that violations of the language law would be dealt with under the Language Act, but the fines imposed by the Act on the protection of the whistleblower would apply if the notification of the infringement was restricted or other requirements had been infringed. In addition, Tarmo Kruusimäe asked if, within seven days, no feedback has been received from the notifier from an internal channel or law firm with whom a company or local authority cooperates, the application of the fine should be analogous to the language law. Minister Maris Lauri replied that if a person notices an infringement and informs it through an internal channel, he must also receive confirmation within seven days that the notification had been received, and then there are three months for the infringement proceedings. However, all complaints should be dealt with as soon as possible. The Half Office asked what an unlawful act was, which is not a formal offence, whether the lack of good manners was such an unlawful act. The Minister replied that there were situations in which the notifier might not have sufficient legal knowledge to refer to some specifically violated paragraphs, such as informing that the waste would be transferred to nature. The anti-Semimets also asked if and if so, where there is demand in Estonian society for the infringement according to the Act of Protection of the Reporter. The Minister replied that it was very important for society to reduce labour violations. It is important, in the interests of the state as a whole, to find out about these violations. Such infringements are often known by workers who need to feel safe to make notifications. On Tarmo Kruusimäe, there was a question about the malicious sarikabs, on which the Minister replied that any information must be justified. The anti-Semimets also asked further that, in fact, there is already today every opportunity to report an offence. He said that businesses would be burdened, that they would be overly intimidated, that all labour disputes would be settled in the Labour Dispute Committee. He also referred to harassment scandals and reputational damage. So all the questions I read here, and these answers, actually, I have a feeling you were there in this hall and more. However, as a result of the above, it was decided to propose by the Commission that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on the 25th, which is then yesterday, this year. For 4: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Against 3: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets. Abstentions: Heljo Pikhof. Next, propose the completion of the first reading. Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Against 3: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets. Abstentions: Heljo Pikhof. Next, it is proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 8 February. The same composition in favour: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Against: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets. Abstentions: Heljo Pikhof. appoint Mr Marek Jürgenson, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to represent the commission. There was a consensus on this. So such decisions were taken and such questions and answers were also received in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U608	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U609	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question: was there a debate and debate in the Commission, or do you know if there was no debate at first reading, why did our Government decide to extend this scope to those opportunities to which it extends? While the directive itself provides for financial fraud and such money laundering and major orgies, in Estonia it has been decided by the government that it should be extended to all organisations with more than 50 employees, which seems completely absurd and incomprehensible. Why did the government decide to disband it so extensively?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U610	Thank you, Mr. Onion! Good question! However, the question that you are asking for was not specifically discussed. When this draft comes to second reading by the Commission, I am convinced that this issue will certainly be raised. And you are absolutely right that, if you look at this draft, there is information on the current regulation, there are more references in Europe to anti-corruption activities, money laundering and terrorism, the financial sector, civil aviation, the financial sector, market abuse and so on. But when we get to second reading in the Commission, I am one hundred percent convinced that this is one of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U611	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U612	Good manager! Honourable speaker! I understand you've read this law properly as chairman of the committee and in the process, maybe you'll explain a little bit. In the press, I read about this law about the fact that if there are at least 50 employees in the collective, it's like a whistleblower should almost pay there. We have 101 members in the Riigikogu, i.e. at least two people will then receive an extra salary here in the next composition. Or must there be more? Is there a real story written in the press, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U613	Thank you, Mr. Chef! I'm not specifically now... Is this some fresh comment, specific story or information in the press? I have not yet read it, unfortunately, but I am convinced that we do not need two whistleblowers in the Riigikogu. In fact, somewhere, the question was raised in the same way. This must be Peter Ernits here today asking if anyone is in the sauna during the hearing, who needs to be informed and so on. But I believe there may be whistleblowers among us today, but officially two, I think, shouldn't be seen in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U614	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You said twice that you didn't need two. So how many do you think there are? Two or no more? To the extent that the two of you really went through that answer to Aivar twice at least. But I have a more serious question, too. If the Minister pointed out here that this bill has been dealt with for a long time, Minister Reinsalu and Minister Time, and so on, it is all true. But this expansion and the bill, he still became a bill during the current government, didn't he? Did I understand correctly from your answer to my first question that you yourself have now had doubts about how much you thought there was an important question before you read the second question as to why this extension had taken place? You said that this topic did not arise during the first reading and introduction, but now it will certainly rise. Do you think so, and do you agree, or do you feel the same way as I do that such disbanded rights are not appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U616	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good question. I guess this suspicion was due to the fact that I, too, have received information that the two groups wish to make a request for rejection or have made a request for rejection. So by looking at how many of us are in this room, I don't know, maybe people are spread out in offices, some have gone home, I really don't know what's gonna happen. There is some uncertainty, yes, that this bill will come to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U617	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U618	Thank you. I still couldn't answer my question before. Are there any obligations for collectives with 50 or more employees in the bill? And the second question is: Does a whistleblower who blows the wrong whistle, or lies, see [in] their punishment in any way? Many of us politicians have experienced whistleblowers when, in four years' time, it turns out that everything was wrong, but no one will apologize or improve your health.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U619	Thank you. Yeah, you're right, good questioner, that misblowing can cost people a lot of money because of lost nerve cells, health, money paid to lawyers. There was an amount of EUR 1200 of the fine going through here, I do not find exactly this place immediately, but it was also raised by the Minister in the Commission that, in the event of incorrect information being given to a natural person, a fine of EUR 1200 can be imposed and a fine of up to EUR 40000 can be imposed on a legal person.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U620	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U621	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu. I have, I don't know, a very bad feeling here to talk about this bill that I never expected or feared to be handled in this Chamber. I'll remind you, I'd rather inform you of my earlier experience. During Perestroika I dealt with the scientific heritage of some professors at the University of Tartu, and then for a short time all the archives were open, including the archives of Section 1. And I was very confused and disgusted to see how many complaints there were. Among other things, I dealt with the scientific legacy of my colleague, Mr Ernitsa, and there was one such complaint written, not anonymously, but by a very famous scientist. Later he performed as a great Estonian nationalist. In broken Russian it was written that comrade Ernits' lectures show signs of bourgeois activism and formalism. If I'm looking at the law, it was a really right-blown whistle. Comrade Ernits' lectures very badly met the standard of lecture of the Soviet lecturer and this was a perfectly correct signal. What I'm saying is there was no personal grudge in this whistleblower, no pussy in the country tongues. That Ernits wasn't in his way. At all they were from different faculties, just the person felt that it was his duty to inform that the lectures were such that Soviet students were somehow poorly directed to his lectures. The result? The fact that Comrade Ernits, associate professor Ernits, lost his job and had no protection whatsoever.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U622	Good waitress! Good waitress, I apologize to you for a moment. Stopper's stuck, you'll get more time. I'm gonna take a minute's break because it's not a problem in this room, but I think the problem is behind the door, so I'm gonna go there for a second.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U623	It's already been a fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U624	Break one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U625	Dear colleagues, the chairman's break is over. Good waitress, I apologize to you. Please, your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U626	When I read this law and heard the honourable minister's comment on it, even if there are any sanctions for false complainants, there are no safeguards here, I do not see any protection against who was misblowed. And, of course, in general, he can go to court to be slandered and so on. But the reputation was badly damaged. I'm not talking about what you've been through, the nerve damage and all that. This is currently the opening of Pandora's box, and it is not so simply a joke that, by the way, can be quite costly if every major company still has to have an additional department dealing with complaints, people who decide whether or not these complaints need to be processed, etc. I mean, it's not at all... I'm not saying there's no problem at all. I'm sure it is, but it's kind of like treating a headache with a guillotine. Very radical method. But he brings even worse problems than what he solves. In some ways, it can solve some problems in the collective, but at the same time it creates a very bad atmosphere where everyone might suspect that a whistle has been whistled or blown on him. I have worked in a collective like this, and it is not pleasant at all. A person looks at you, and you know he actually wrote an anonymous complaint to a three-letter facility. What else do I want to stress?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U627	Are you taking extra time? You have everything. One second, I don't think it's lost. More like a few more minutes for the bonus. So, an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U628	Thank you. So there is no criterion for when and when this complaint is well founded. The very example of Ernitsa I gave you. Is there a violation or not? When the minister said that if a person does everything that is foreseen, but maybe he doesn't do it wholeheartedly and doesn't do it there with any sense of mission, and I complain that he somehow formally performs these tasks. There's no trash! Well, look at that. And I want to say one more thing. Besides... Sorry, the most important thing is that it undermines the rule of law. If there are different out-of-court methods how to settle your bills, then it is not good. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise, and it is very important that here we cannot get behind the European Union directive. The European Union directive was very narrow. The areas covered by the protection of whistleblowers were very specifically mentioned. We've got this thing taken in a very broad sense here, and that's how it feels to look, to put everything in. But if you forget something, we'll put "and the rest." It's like a Chinese encyclopedia, all animals are divided into them and those who belong to Caesar, those who ran on the floors, and so on and so forth. That's not good. The Fatherland Group has already submitted...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U629	There's a document.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U630	There's a document, so we'll find a person. The document is there, and I ask you, I call for this draft by the name of Pavlik Morozov to find his place where he should be: in a trash can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U631	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Raimond Kaljulaid! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U632	Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome the fact that a number of EKRE ambassadors have gradually returned to the Chamber. Your little boycott is over. First of all, of course, I must say that such philosophical discussions, which take place here in the Riigikogu in the late hours of the evening, are very enjoyable. I think it is important that we have an exchange of views here, not just that everyone should read their speeches. I would like to respond to some of the statements made by the previous speaker, very honourable Professor Lotman. Firstly, I think that these parallels between the Republic of Estonia and the Soviet Union are grotesque in this context. We don't have the KGB in the country anymore. After all, we are no longer talking about one faculty going to complain about another faculty, that his lectures did not cover enough of the Soviet propaganda crap that had to be dealt with at the time. We are not talking about this, we are still talking about this draft, as I understand it, about the fact that there is an infringement, an offence, and then there is a desire to respond to it. Well, that's the kind of channels. I will give you an example of the city of Tallinn, certainly one of Estonia's considerable employers. There's a corruption hotline there since 2018, where an employee can call, this tip goes into internal control, it's anonymous to let you know there's a suspicion of corruption. As far as I've been communicating with the heads of internal control, this corruption hotline has quite well justified itself in this municipality. Through this, information has been received, responded to and either prevented from committing a crime or perhaps even caught up in a maliciously acting employee. What else is important? Some important things that need to be branded. The aim of unlawful behaviour when we talk about the private sector is usually to gain a competitive advantage. In other words, if one operator pays taxes and the other operator does not pay taxes, at least in the short term, this unfair operator can perhaps offer a cheaper price and thereby gain an advantage over that honest operator. And that's why we shouldn't, like, praise the kind of rehepapapastic attitude that it's stupid to obey the law and pay taxes. It shouldn't be. I don't think this attitude should sound in the Riigikogu Hall. But I'm not denying that this law is somewhat blunt. I mean, it's not a legal term, it has some sharp corners, and the Riigikogu has to seriously consider these corners in this Chamber and, I think, in the committees too. He or she intervenes in employment relationships, intervenes in the way in which relations between the employer and the employee are organised. In that sense, it's important. It is important that attention is paid to this. For the social democrats, of course, the area is important; labour law is very important. We usually always stand up for the employees. At the same time, it must, of course, be stressed that under no circumstances must employers be approached in a biased way. In other words, the vast majority of Estonian employers are law-abiding, wanting to create value in society and through it to earn income for owners, but also to ensure income, stability, economic coping for their employees. I stress that the Social Democrats undoubtedly want to support the activities of companies operating in particular on Estonian capital. As a result, under no circumstances can we easily impose additional obligations or restrictions on employers' activities. You can't do this lightly. The proportionality of these obligations and restrictions must be assessed by the Riigikogu. Although we are rather supportive of the overall objective of this draft, it is not opposed to any further discussion, this debate must certainly be substantive. Because the goal is, in fact, to have less corruption and a more honest business environment. The question is whether the measures that are being proposed are good measures. These final conclusions, I think, are too early to draw. I did mark a few questions earlier, I think what maybe the Commission and the Ministry could really consider. If the President allows me, I would like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U633	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U634	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U635	Would you beg or beg?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U636	You've asked that question before. I beg you, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U637	Got it. Please! Three minutes. Because it's a conditional call, I don't know if you want it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U638	No, I've been asking you this politely. For example, "Would you pass the salt?"not: "Give me salt. " I was just trying to be polite.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U639	Yeah. Yeah, sure. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U640	Thank you! As I also pointed out in my question, an infringement within the meaning of this law is also an act or omission which does not constitute an offence, but is contrary to the purpose of that provision, that is something that I think must certainly be debated about. It is because the explanatory memorandum acknowledges that neither has this Directive on the protection of notifiers been specified and remains to be found in the case-law. As a general principle, we should always avoid the use of wordings in laws that are not unambiguous, which may give rise to major disputes. There must be compelling reasons to lay down such a law. Although, I admit, the Minister's explanations here were substantive. But that should definitely be discussed. I doubt that such a principle should be in this law. The second was the risk of damage to the public interest. The explanatory memorandum also points out that if, for example, the fire safety rules of a public building are violated or toxic waste is released into a water body. It seems to me that the common denominator of these examples, however, is that it is somehow threatened with human health, people's lives, property. Perhaps this law should also, in this case, speak more directly of what has been wanted to say. And these examples, too, which the minister pointed out that someone sees somewhere along the water body, there is pouring dangerous... Well, I'm not talking about building a nuclear power plant, let's imagine we have a big company, they're building a nuclear plant, and then somebody's gonna see that somebody's putting these nuclear waste in Lake Võrtsjärv, for example. But this example, in fact, as the Minister pointed out in a similar example, does not apply to this law, because then there should be an employee of the nuclear power plant who sees it, and then you can really say that it is actually in the public interest that people should immediately know through Instagram that nuclear waste has been put into Võrtsjärve. But in short, it's also something we could discuss whether this principle is necessary. Of course, this commitment to businesses, that is the problem, that is the problem. We are talking here, for example, about extending the energy audit obligation five times as far as Objective 55 is concerned. There were 150 companies that had to perform energy audits, it's going to be 800. They're like vital examples, and they're the right things. But one more thing I would like to draw attention to is that a very large number of colleagues here have said that it is as if entrepreneurs are certainly not welcoming this draft. In fact, yes, there were objections to the Small Business Association, but there was also the inclusion of information technology, the Telecoms Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the Banking Union, they did not have any major substantive contradictions in order to help-help what is now being done to us. Corruption-free Estonia supports it. And that is, I think, important, solving the corruption issue is important. So, yes, as social democrats, we have not as scared of this law as perhaps some of our fellow Members. And I think it's okay to discuss it further. However, this could undoubtedly be clarified and supplemented in the future procedure. Thank you for your attention and I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U641	Thank you and thank you for your good wishes. Now there's a reception. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U642	Thank you. And I also thank my colleague, Kaljulaid, because he called me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U643	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U644	The fact that I see a bogeyman here and that it is demagogic to compare the present Republic of Estonia with the Soviet Union is partly correct. But I would compare not the Republic of Estonia, but England. At the University of Cambridge, a faculty member used the n-word. Its appeal was lodged, with the lecturer, he was called out naturally, the lecturer said that he did not use the word, he quoted one of the authors where the word was used. It was a literary class where the word was quoted. And by the way, he said that word like a normal person doesn't. But since he used that word twice, once in a quote, and the second time when he said that a normal person wouldn't use it, he used that word twice and he got fired. And this is a democratic country where knocking is carried into the system. There is no such thing in Estonia yet, but I do not want us to take the first steps in this direction. And I can see the warning signs. I, let me whistle here, so that I can respond to these warning signs, and not to them, so that these signs become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U645	Thank you. And I, for my part, thank you for just figuratively saying that you're whistling a whistle. I immediately remembered that there was no whistle in the room, so it calls for a fire. That won't be necessary. But thank you, you didn't. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U646	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, All it took was two suitable political parties and a joint government of these parties to come up with such a draft law of appeal. Unbelievable! However, the reasons put forward by the Minister regarding the necessity of this law are not vitiated because all these so-called problems are regulated by the various laws that are currently in force. I quote here the individual aspects of the explanation [in the letter] and then I will give examples immediately. I quote: "[Juritian persons shall be obliged to set up an internal communication channel allowing confidential notification of the infringement. The obligation to set up an external communication channel is on the basis of the draft by the competent authorities, i.e. public authorities which are legally obliged to deal with infringements. "The public authorities, as we know, operate mostly according to the Civil Service Act and the Public Service Act has beautifully chapter 8 "Disciplinary liability of public authorities." Internal control services have been set up for this purpose in the institutions. I will have a fully reasoned question, which will then be dealt with by the internal control staff of the institutions. Will one and the same people just sit on a warm spot for decades, receive a significantly higher salary than other officials and do nothing about the need to create such a channel, a supposedly secure separate channel? If it is not enough for the government to feel that this regulation of the Civil Service Act is not sufficient, it would only be sufficient to introduce amendments to the Civil Service Act. The following quote in the statement: "It is important to ensure public interest and freedom of expression on the one hand, and the protection of the rights of persons concerned by the disclosure and the avoidance of abuse of the right of access to the public, on the other hand, in providing the conditions for public disclosure laid down in [this] law. " Maybe the Minister doesn't know, but I would point out that any protection of witnesses and [the protection of witnesses] who submit or complain are regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure contains § 67 "Protecting the identity of the person concerned'. If the witness feels threatened, it is possible to make the witness anonymous, to come up with a contractual name for him. The witness's real data is only known by the judge, they're not known by the judge, they're not gonna be known by the prosecutor. Consequently, this reasoning is also not vitiated. Next: "Providing the protection of the reporter will also contribute to ensuring that infringements occurring in the working environment are quickly eliminated internally in such a way that they do not affect the safety and safety of workers, partners, customers and others, work activities and the reputation of companies or institutions. [... ] [In particular, it is required that the information was first notified internally or externally. [... ] For society, it is important that the infringements are eliminated. " First of all, we also have the Labour Inspectorate, who deals with the topics of the working environment. And secondly, it is said here that the only thing that matters is that the violations are eliminated. But where's the responsibility? Who's in charge? Where, then, is the country's current transparency in terms of fighting corruption? Whether the purpose of this law is primarily to wipe out all problems, all violations under the carpet, because the following text of the law is: "[Non-Information] protects the institution or company that is potentially the infringer from potential reputational damage. " To this end, the Anti - Corruption Law, which regulates all the necessary issues, is a necessary problem, not a law of inaction. The Anti-corruption Act contains a separate section 6 "Communicating a corruption case in the public or private sector" and Chapter 4 deals with liability, § 17.19. Why are we inventing a bicycle? And then we'll serve it as a very, very necessary way that people don't dare report a violation, and we'll make a secure channel. Absurd! Next quote... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U647	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U648	"The purpose of the draft law on the protection of the whistleblower is to respond as quickly and effectively as possible to illegal acts, thereby ensuring the functioning of the legal order and the protection of public interests. " There is a legitimate question - the police, the prosecutor's office, the defense police. Will these authorities continue to be concerned only with checking the wearing of protective masks? The Penal Code contains chapter 17 "Ametial Offences'. In order to resolve these alleged problems, it is sufficient that we enforce again such paragraphs as abuse of office, professional negligence, non-compliance with data collection requirements, the act of unlawful professional conduct known to the notary. That's enough. Then these problems will be covered, not the need to do some sort of snitching channel or the law of the snitching. Similarly, the Penal Code provides for a paragraph on exaggeration of power: illegal use by an official of a weapon, special instrument or physical force [of]. And there's a bunch of other paragraphs from taking bribes and ending public procurement with non-compliance. The minister will come and just lie. He's probably lying about everything, lying about the substance of the law, lying about the real purpose of the law, and lying about what's going on in the future. This is completely unacceptable and cannot be accepted. In view of what the Prime Minister says, the law is, this law is not needed, because we have solved these problems with all other laws, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U649	The representative of the Centre Party Group is now speaking from the floor. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U650	Thank you. Before the vote, I would like to ask for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U651	Yes, thank you! I'm gonna have to bounce back that wish. That's what you have to say when you vote. So it has to be said again, so there won't be anything going on here after I'm in violation of the procedure here. Please say that when it comes to the voting phase. We are currently in the negotiating phase, and there is still a possibility to speak here. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U652	Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I will explain a little, because it seems that not all members of the Riigikogu noticed what was being said here or what I was trying to answer. And maybe I wasn't very specific about everything or missing something. First of all, I assure you that no division needs to be established in any company. Once again, the information channel, it's a company's choice, and in a lot of places they already work here. Your colleague referred to the city of Tallinn for example, but I know that there are companies where there is such a thing. In addition, once again, penalties are provided for for the transmission of false information. And if there's a reason, you can sue a liar and a slanderer at any time. And, of course, the Riigikogu always has the opportunity to supplement or clarify this bill. I think it can definitely be improved. There are a lot of questions about what will happen to the Riigikogu. Member of the Riigikogu, once again, I actually answered that question. The Riigikogu is known to have servants, officials, and it is precisely for them to be given the opportunity to inform them. The members of the Riigikogu are not employees, they are not subject to labour legislation, so that the members of the Riigikogu do not need to create a channel, it is not necessary to choose whistleblowers from among the members of the Riigikogu or to determine that they must be one or two, but the law provides that if there are more than 50 employees in institutions, local government institutions or companies, such a channel should be created. And once again from the background of this bill. This is really related to the European Union Directive, the positions of which were determined in Estonia by the Riigikogu in spring 2018 and in that situation the Riigikogu gave a notional denial, i.e. that it set out the conditions that must be met in order for Estonia to support this directive. All these circumstances required by Estonia were taken into account and, as a result, the directive received support from Estonia. Estonia had the opportunity to change its views again at the beginning of 2019, after the changes we had requested were introduced, and this was not done, and consequently the previous Minister of Justice signed and accepted it. So, as a result, Estonia has committed itself to adopting this directive. Now the question why we have adopted it more broadly is that otherwise we should create an extremely complex system, in a very detailed way, so that people may be confused about where this law would apply, where it would not apply. This choice was made in consultation; it was not the ministry's fiction to apply it in Estonia more widely than it was intended. But once again, the Riigikogu always has the opportunity to change the bill according to its wishes, wills and certainly get a better draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U653	Thank you very much. A procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U654	Thank you. I would like to correct the misleading statement made by the Minister, as if the draft law provided for it to be an agency, the opening of a communication channel is a choice of authority. Paragraph 8 (2) of the Law states clearly and the list provides how the establishment of internal communication channels is an obligation for many institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U655	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 504 SE should be completed, but we have received two documents. The first document has come from the Isamaa Group. The Fatherland Group proposes to reject the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 504 SE. The second document has come from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has the same content. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading 504. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U656	Thank you. I'd like a break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U657	Thank you. The intermission shall be 10 minutes before the vote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U658	Honourable Riigikogu! Break is over, we are discussing the draft law on the protection of whistleblowers initiated by the Government of the Republic 504 SE and we have had two proposals to reject the draft at first reading. One has come from the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the other has come from the Group of the Isamaa. And now we need to vote through these proposals. I therefore vote on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Isamaa to reject at first reading the draft law on the protection of whistleblowers initiated by the Government of the Republic 504. Please take a stand and vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Respectables! Really!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U659	The proposal was supported by 25 members of the Riigikogu, with 34. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. That concludes the first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 8 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U660	Our fifth item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Can we go to the vote because we had a vote? Thank you! I am voting on the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic (439 SE). Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U661	With the result of 64 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U662	Our sixth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act (466 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Luck Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U663	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! The extraordinary rise in pensions is a good decision, a much-awaited decision, because it is a message to 321000 pensioners that the state cares about them, that we are making an effort to make their lives more worryless, so that they do not have to worry about how to end up with every day's expenses and money for medicines. Of course we can argue and, during the debate on this draft, we argued that how much is sufficient or when one decision or another decision is to be made. But every extra euro we give to pensioners will help them. Every rise is necessary. Similarly, the exceptional pension increase of EUR 20, resulting in an average pension reaching EUR 654. I would point out that at the beginning of 2019 the average old-age pension was EUR 448. In four years, an increase of over EUR 200, a step in the very, very right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you will support this proposal. You will support the extraordinary rise in pensions from January 2023, as this will improve the daily livelihood of pensioners and will also reduce the relative poverty rate of pensioners by an estimated 1.6%. But I agree that the extraordinary pension increase alone will be few. That is why I am also pointing out here that this is part of a three-part package, in which, in addition to the extraordinary rise in pension, the average old-age pension will also be exempt from income tax from the beginning of next year. From 1 April 2023, the pension will be increased in addition through indexation. As I said before, the average pension will rise from EUR 590 to EUR 564 by means of extraordinary pension increases and indexation next year. By adding an average income tax exemption to the old-age pension, the average old-age pension beneficiaries will receive an additional EUR 100 per month next year. This is all a good step towards pensions, which will increase the well-being of the elderly, and this is a confirmation that we are making efforts to ensure that pensioners have a decent old age. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask you all to support this draft in order to make the lives of pensioners better together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U664	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U665	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I could even agree completely, or I would even agree with the Luck Dropper, the previous speaker who said that the pension increase was good. Of course it's good, it's great, there's no doubt about it. But only less than a week ago, six days ago, in this very hall, we were arguing about the key question of when to do this. We heard the pension is going to rise by one decimal percentage. Last year's inflation was 12%, this year's inflation could be much higher. And then we're talking about that 20 cents or the euro we're going to retiring next year! And the proposal from the opposition was unanimously voted down here last week in favour of the coalition. Now that this 20 euro still has some value. A year from now, he won't have any value. But you're probably hoping that you can just fool people, give them 20 euros before the elections, so there'll be votes. And we didn't hear those reasons, no normal, constructive reasoning. It was said that the coalition had simply agreed this way, and when we made the coalition agreement, we did not know that we were going to have such inflation and such a huge price increase. No, I didn't, really, I agree. But today I believe that even among the coalition, there are no ambassadors who do not know this and who do not know that people need this help today, today that money is needed. But you just don't care. You guys are still making some kind of completely irrational, insane line. And that is what we see in all other matters, where, in fact, the problems of the people, which are today, are woes in which our people are struggling, and that is not what they care about. As long as I get a bird note somewhere. And the pensioners were supposed to be well-protected and get help from everywhere, and there's going to be indexation, and whatever, you know, nobody needs it and nobody cares. But, you know, I put my call last week on Facebook. And today it's been viewed nearly 100,000 times. 100,000 times! So the situation is different, so that's what moves our people, what they need, because they wouldn't look at it. But, well, yeah, what do I do? The coalition doesn't care that people are in trouble today, and what's going on in a year is no longer worth anything. But just as the previous speaker expressed his hope that we will all vote in favour, of course we will vote in favour. But we will vote with deep frustration, with deep shame on the actions of Reform and the Centre Party. Because this pension increase should have been retroactive since the beginning of this year. I hope the earth will not swallow you, and you will be able to swallow your shame and live on. Although I imagine it would be extremely difficult for a normal person, moral and ethical, but for some, it must be very easy. Well, then, have it easy! But the rest of life we're gonna make it hard on you because we care about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U666	On behalf of the Socialists, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U667	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's last-reading bill, which will probably soon become a law, is very good in substance. The Social Democrats will certainly support this with their votes in favour. However, it is very sad and even cynical that the rise in the base pension, 20 euros, will not take place until 1 January 2023, which is 11 months from now. We all had the opportunity to help even a little of the pension and national pension recipients this year by supporting the second-reading amendment of the Fatherland. Then the law we are adopting today would have been even better and would have helped people before. Otherwise, it would have been possible for the government coalition, seeing a drastic change from the date of the signing of the coalition agreement, that is to say, a year ago, to come by itself with a proposal for an extraordinary pension increase from 2022 or from 1 January or 1 April, as proposed by the Association of Estonian Pensioner Associations, and thus demonstrate its empathy and understanding. That is the role of the government and the Riigikogu in reviewing the agreements that need to be changed when the situation changes and, consequently, the times when the laws enter into force. Unfortunately, they didn't. Apparently, it wasn't necessary. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee at second reading of the bill last week in the Chamber of the Riigikogu only stressed that this was the way we agreed a year ago. It was probably agreed on a number of other issues, but an excellent example is that the need to increase the cost of defence was understood as a consequence of a change in the security situation and came from the Prime Minister, both a political statement and a proposal to channel additional funds to ensure greater security. Very good and the right decision! Is the security crisis greater when people are in a crisis of coping or vice versa? The Social Democrats believe that coping with people and feeling that the state supports them when times are difficult will also increase security and thereby increase security. Today, we are in a situation where, alongside the price race for home expenses, the tolerable livelihood of tens of thousands of pensioners is being threatened by the growing price of food. People urgently need extra money this year, not just before the Riigikogu elections. Yeah, well, you'll have to raise your pension and see how the cost of living's pension lasts. In his address, the Association of Estonian Pensioners Association pointed out that the average pension, 552 euros, represents less than 40% of the average salary. 41% of older people live in relative poverty. By the way, this data is from the time before the energy crisis and the price increases. According to the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations, recent inflation figures have also clearly signalled an increase in the base pension and the national pension, at least from 1 April 2022, when the increase in pension due to indexation occurs. It seems that this cynical game and the targeted activities already taking place next year in view of the Riigikogu elections are consciously selected activities, not a rapid response to changed situations. After all, similar activities are carried out around the income support limit. On the one hand, the Reform Party's politicians, headed by the Minister for Social Protection, are talking about the need to increase income support; on the other hand, it does not involve action. In reply to a Monday's inquiry, Prime Minister said that this proposal has not even been discussed by the government. It seems more and more that nothing will happen before next year, even though people need help and support today. Finally. The Social Democrats support the draft to become a law, but it is seriously sad that the emergency increase in aid, or pensions, will only take place from 1 January 2023, although both the government and the Riigikogu had every opportunity to make this decision so that the help and support would actually have reached the people at the time when it was most needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U668	On behalf of the central fraction, Siret Eagle. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U669	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Exceptional pension increases are not normal pension increases. This requires a clear political will to increase pensions beyond the annual statutory indexation. The Centre Party has historically been the party that has wanted extraordinary pension increases to improve the daily livelihood of our elderly. This promise has been explicitly reflected in our electoral programmes, and that is what we stand for. Let me give a brief overview of the history of extraordinary pension increases. Between 2004 and today, pensions have been exceptionally raised seven times. Seven times. It is noteworthy that for 18 years, the Centre Party has six times been the decision-maker for the emergency pension increase. This clearly shows that it is the Centre Party that has stood up for extraordinary pension increases. Here I take this opportunity to list the steps we are taking to increase the income of the elderly. This year, the normal indexation of pensions will take place on 1 April. As a result, the average old-age pension is expected to rise to around 43 euros. Also, in 2002, the allowance for a pensioner living alone will rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200, which will be paid in October to our pensioners living alone according to the population register. With an extraordinary pension increase from 1 January 2023, the pension base will increase by EUR 20. This is exactly the bill we're working on today. This is expected to raise the average old-age pension to EUR 615. People who have reached retirement age since 1 January 2023 will also be able to use the tax-free income to the extent of the average old-age pension, regardless of the amount of the remaining income earned. In 2023, the normal indexation of pensions will take place on 1 April. These are the series of steps that we are actually taking this year. In addition to the annual indexation, the Centre Party has advocated an extraordinary rise in old-age pensions. For us, coping with the elderly has been important over the years, not only in words but also in deeds. Let me remind you: historically, seven times has been raised and six times the Centre Party has been a decision-maker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U670	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U671	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft could be titled "The state is living in a crisis at the expense of pensioners." Is it really only the Riigikogu elections that will take place next year that the extraordinary pension increase and the exemption from the average pension income tax have been postponed for a year to 2023? As a coalition, the Fatherland Party carried out its election promise, the reform of the second pension pillar. As a result, it would have been possible to implement the extraordinary pension increase from 1 January onwards. There was a very clear message in the 2019 coalition: we are implementing the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar and this will enable us to increase pensions exceptionally. After all, the electoral promise of the Centre Party was that in 2020, pensions would be exceptionally increased with indexation of EUR 100. Now we're talking about 2023. Although we do have the funds to raise it from 1 January this year. Unfortunately, the action of the Centre Party is illustrated by the saying 'Go by our words, not by our actions'. We're in a crisis. This is no longer just an energy crisis, we are also experiencing an economic crisis, our families are experiencing a financial crisis, not only for pensioners. We have led our people into a poverty crisis in the last few months. Has anyone bothered to calculate the impact of this EUR 20 extraordinary annual pension increase on the state budget? Didn't they find 80 million to support our elderly? We know how much more income tax was collected last year because the second pillar became voluntary. We know how much more money will be coming to the first pension pillar this year than last year. These numbers are in hundreds of millions and we do not want to support our pensioners with the same money that they actually own. It is sad that the coalition has abandoned the extraordinary increase in pension this year, which should, of course, be well above EUR 20, and the exemption of the average pension from income tax was planned two years ago, but the failure of the Minister of the same Central Party will only happen in 2023. Friends, you're talking today about how you support pensioners. In fact, with this decision, you will withdraw 20 euros each month from the pockets of nearly 330000 Estonian pensioners, a total of 80 million euros this year - 80 million euros! just friends, while Estonia is living in a crisis. And then we will hear the next governments share 380 million euros. Then we see a lot of CO2 from the sale of the quota every month, more revenue will be received from the state budget than we have calculated. And then we'll talk about how the pension has risen in recent years. It's also rising without it, whoever's in the government, from indexing. Please do not come to the Riigikogu to praise the increase in pensions from 1 April. This is an indexation of the law. Thank God there hasn't been a government in the last decade that wanted to change this bill. I admit I'm embarrassed. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister. I am delighted that the Prime Minister and I share at least one understanding. This is the support of a single-living pensioner. One of the promoters of this support is me, and I am pleased that when I saw that the Prime Minister made a promise to raise it to 200 euros, I made a similar promise in the Riigikogu elections. And now we can both say that one promise has been fulfilled. But the Centre Party, if the Reform Party fulfills its promise this year, why don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U672	Okay. By doing so, we have exhausted our calls. The commission's proposal is for a final vote, that's the story. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the call! Mr. Michal, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U673	Yeah, sorry, good manager, I have a procedural question. Maybe you're freshening up, the memory of the evening isn't fresh anymore. Was Aivar Kokk the chairman of the Finance Committee during which the system that kidnaps pensioners was made? Do you remember?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U674	If you ask me that, I'm gonna have to go through my memory a little bit, but it turns out there was. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Mr. Chef, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U675	Since my name was mentioned...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U676	No, it has nothing to do with this, Mr. Chef, procedural is not a rejoinder place. Mr Chef, once again, if your name or your views are mentioned in a speech or in a speech, this is the place of the rejoinder. The procedural question is the question of a member of the Riigikogu to the manager, the President's answer. There's no place for you to react. But if you have a turn... Can I... Mr. Chef, why don't you listen for a second? Mr. Chef, could you just listen for a second? If you have the procedural question again, I will give you the floor, press the procedural button there, I will give you the floor for the procedural question. Okay, good. Mr. Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U677	Yes, I would like to state clearly for the record that both the Chairman of the Tallinn City Group and the current Head of the Riigikogu were both lying at the moment. In the Committee on Finance, when I was in charge, the law you were talking about was not the bad law. This law was adopted much earlier, and then I did not chair it [Commission]. If you speak, I understand what you are talking about, you are talking about the Income Tax Act, but it is a composition back, and at that time I did not chair the Committee on Monetary Affairs, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U678	If that was the case, I'm sure you have some pretty good memories of yourself when you were chairing the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Yeah. Now, Mr. Half-Amets, you also have a procedure. Then we could go to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U679	Yeah, I suggest the vice-president doesn't let himself be provoked here again to make an item and keep the debate going. Let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U680	Thank you! That is a very good point. The manager will take that into account. Mr. Chef, take it out of there. You did. Very nice. Now we are going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 466. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U681	With the result of 70 votes against and zero abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U682	Let us move on to our seventh item on the agenda, which is an overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to how we deal with this point. First of all, the Prime Minister's presentation is 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then be able to ask one oral question. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor during the negotiations, if they so wish. Prime Minister, you are welcome to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U683	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! Last spring, in the country's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035" adopted here in the Riigikogu, we set the goal of becoming an innovative country that values the creation and use of knowledge. Estonia's goal is to become a knowledge society where we can always rely on knowledge in our choices and can use this knowledge to promote the well-being and economy of Estonian people. Without R &amp; D, we will not really solve any development needs, whether they belong to the environment, health, entrepreneurship or public administration. We have reached a stage in the development of society where the importance of R &amp; D-enabled solutions is growing in all sectors and sectors. The problems we are facing today in society and in the wider world have become much more complex and multifaceted than they were 10 or 20 years ago. All of this is to be expected, which also means repeating increased responsibility for decision-making that affects the state and society. Good Riigikogu! The financing of R &amp; D is guaranteed by the Coalition Agreement and is growing. Science is once again balanced on a competitive and basic basis over many years. We have increased both funding by another EUR 6 million in the year that began. Instead of investing, universities and companies have increased the cost of researchers' salaries, because only people can create new knowledge, not houses or complex technologies. In the last year, labour costs in R &amp; D increased by 14%. The government has complied with the broadly agreed objective of research funding. In the final year, 1% of gross domestic product was allocated from the state budget to support R &amp; D. That is also the case this year. Despite extraordinary times in the energy, health, security and climate crisis, we have raised public funding for research and development. Substantial changes are taking place in private R &amp; D. In 2019 the R &amp; D expenditure of the Estonian private sector passed public expenditure. This is a long-awaited development. They increased further in 2020, exceeding 1% of gross domestic product (GDP) for the first time in 10 years. A total of EUR 481 million was spent on R &amp; D in the public and private sectors, which is 115 million more than two years earlier. And the fruits of this change we will see soon. In terms of R &amp; D expenditure as a ratio to gross domestic product, we were 11th in the second consecutive year in comparison with the countries of the European Union. There is still a lot of work to be done to catch up with the Nordic countries, but with 1.8% of our R &amp; D expenditure, we have done 0.7% of Latvia, 1.2% of Lithuania and 1.4% of Poland better. The R &amp; D expenditure of the Estonian private sector exceeded the absolute values of the Latvian private sector more than four times. Companies in Lithuania bigger than us spent the same amount on development with us. Estonian employers have taken their signature very seriously on the science agreement. The desire to acknowledge the importance of R &amp; D investment through success stories has been launched by a two-percent club. These are companies that invest more than 2% of their turnover in R &amp; D or at least EUR million per year. In order to boost innovation in other businesses, an innovation launch shop has been set up within the Employers' Confederation. The number of researchers and engineers in the business sector is increasing and is also getting younger. I believe that this trend will also support the continued development of Estonian industrial enterprises and the achievement of the productivity target set for 2035. In addition to strong basic research, the volume of applied research and experimental and development work is also growing strongly. This means that we are increasingly able to make the knowledge we have created work for people's well-being and the economy. A growing part of the state budget's R &amp; D expenditure reaches researchers through ministries, helping the state to make smarter choices in addressing the development needs of society. In 2020, the volume of applied research in the public sector increased by half and in universities by a whole quarter. Never before has the state commissioned so much science to solve the problems of governance. In some areas of government, we also set an example for our neighbours. The participation of Estonian researchers in NATO's research organisation is the largest ratio to defence costs in all countries. Studies related to the coronal apandemia and their impact on society are also good examples: Professor Krista Fischer's models, Professor Ruth Kalda's monitoring data, Professor Tanel Tenson's waste water samples. Based on these analyses, the government has made decisions that directly affect society in order to combat the spread of the Coronavirus. This cooperation experience has been good in many ways and instructive and constructive for politicians, researchers as well as officials and society at large. A new applied research programme has successfully started to support businesses in launching, financing and finding suitable partners. During the first year of operation, more than 200 Estonian companies turned to EAS to advise on development plans, and nearly 100 technology projects have been evaluated. Two calls for proposals have resulted in the launch of EUR 43 million worth of research and development, which will change the technologies, processes and products used by companies to date. Businesses' interest in applied research has been so high that we have already increased the volume of the programme. We have planned 20 million for these developments in 2022. As an example, Cleveron is developing a new generation of parcel robots with the help of its programme, Cleveron is developing a new generation of delivery robots that will help deliver the goods ordered from the e-shop to the consumer comfortably. In cooperation with scientists at Tallinn University of Technology, the company develops RS-OSA technologies to use oil shale ash as a raw material. The focus of the development work of Eesti Energia and Viru Chemistry Group is to recycle plastic waste that we cannot recycle today. The contribution of researchers to a more knowledge-based economy and society has not been greater. Universities have also launched various units and activities to support the transfer of knowledge and technology. In the end of the year, Antegenes, a branch of personal medicine based on researchers at the University of Tartu, managed to reach a large investment and strategic partnership with a foreign company. This brings innovative genetic tests developed by Estonian scientists for cancer prevention to the UK market. In the light of the energy crisis, of course, the research-based collaboration of researchers at Tallinn University of Technology with KredEx and construction companies will be remembered, which will develop and pilot the industrial insulation of apartment buildings. This will help us both to meet our climate goals by reducing energy consumption, also reducing the financial pressure on families to cope. The energy use of our commercial buildings is also anything but sustainable. The need for knowledge transfer is high and growing in this respect. Happily, we are getting more and more of these examples every year. Good Riigikogu! There is, of course, much work to be done. The development needs of Estonian society are an opportunity for economic and social innovation. Estonia's goal in implementing the green and digital revolution must be to increase the development and well-being of society. American astronaut Jim Lovell has said that human reaching the moon was not a miracle, it was a decision. In order to succeed in big things, we need many people, institutions and companies who make this decision for themselves. Skeleton Technologies, together with Tallinn University of Technology, has set out to turn Estonia into a centre for research and development of high-tech energy storage systems. This is an excellent example of cooperation between companies, researchers and also the state, a new ecosystem in a technology-intensive field that benefits the Estonian economy, the environment and science, but also the wider development of green technologies. Professor Enn Lust has been led by researchers from the University of Tartu by H2Electro to build an electrifier based on novel technology. This is an important link in the green hydrogen production cycle, which helps to store wind and solar energy as hydrogen. In cooperation with Auve Tech, researchers from the same institute completed the first fuel cell created in Estonia that can convert hydrogen into electricity. We must also contribute to the emergence of such ecosystems in other areas, be they personal medicine, smart food production or artificial intelligence, to name but a few. The government is also creating new equity instruments to contribute to the development of research-intensive companies in Estonia. Investment in innovative technologies involves risks, but success increases our smart exports and helps meet our climate goals. A large part of the actions of the Fair Transition Fund and the Refinancing Facility are also aimed at supporting innovation and smart growth. However, there is a great deal of work ahead so that their impact on the Estonian economy and regional development can be unleashed. Science is free and we are proud of the autonomy of our research institutions in Estonia for a reason. However, we also need the contribution of basic sciences to address the country's development needs. In the long term, however, innovation is most likely to come from basic sciences, although it may take some time to value the results there. Unlike applied research and development grants, we will not be writing research topics in the future in support of basic research. However, all scientists can make an important contribution to these changes through their choices. In order to reach the targets set, we need more staff with scientific experience. In terms of the number of researchers per 1000 employees, we are falling behind many OECD countries. Doctoral degrees are only protected as a ratio of 87% of the European Union average. We do not want to compare ourselves here with Latvia, where it is only 22%, or Lithuania, where it is 48%, because our example is Finland and Sweden, where both are protected by 139% compared to the European average of doctoral degrees. The number of doctoral degrees defended in our universities must be turned to an upward trend. I agree with President Alar Karis that the standard of wisdom and education is not the number of diplomas or degrees, but the ability to use your knowledge. But a scientist is raised in doctoral studies. We need to significantly increase young people's interest in doctoral studies and careers in order to ensure the sustainability of higher education and science in Estonian. We do not have too many foreign doctoral students; we have too few Estonian doctoral students. The university can only hire faculty members from among people with a doctorate. Only people who speak Estonian with a doctorate can offer higher education in Estonian. Businesses and public authorities are also increasingly in need of their assistance. As a solution, the government has sent a doctoral reform package to the Riigikogu for discussion. Its aim is to make doctoral studies as career choices more attractive, better remunerated and to create different paths to go through it. In order to implement the reform, EUR 6 million has been allocated to the state budget for 2022. Now universities, along with their partners, have to fill it in. The plan is to change the preparation of doctoral students in such a way that an increasing number of them take up work and take Estonia's life outside universities. This brings us closer to the goal of a knowledge-intensive state and society. The Estonian development plan for R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship was completed in the end of the year, Estonian development plan for R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship was completed until 2035 or TAIE. The expectation of the new strategy is that it will further increase the joint contribution of the research community and businesses to the development of society and the economy. We have also strengthened the role of the Research and Development Council, or TAN, in strategic decisions on R &amp; D and innovation. In TAN, innovation and knowledge transfer are the strongest competence ever. The work is beginning with the Enterprise Innovation Foundation established on the basis of EAS and KredEx. The Riigikogu will soon have meaningful discussions with a new law on R &amp; D and innovation management. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the R&D&I Development Plan, we also need to review the roles of governance and organisation, financing and various actors in the field. For the first time in the framework of the same law, we are regulating the national organisation of R &amp; D as well as innovation, towards more comprehensive policy making. When preparing the new law, we have not forgotten our values, roots, and language. No one does our national science unless we do it ourselves. This is why we propose in the new law that the model of scientific performance finance should include indicators related to the development of national sciences alongside the general quality and performance indicators, the indicators for business cooperation and contributing to the development of society. This is important to us because the promotion of national sciences is a prerequisite for the survival of Estonian culture and state. Estonia is a small country that is in some ways good. At the same time, we will inevitably have fewer people than the big ones, the means to deal with everything equally well and in depth. We have to make choices. At the end of the year, we pushed ahead with the work of decorating the five R &amp; D focus areas selected in the development plan. These five areas include digital solutions, health technologies, resource enhancement, sustainable energy solutions and viable Estonia, which focuses on areas related to the development of Estonian society, nationality and cultural space. We will continue to negotiate with research institutions and businesses, professional associations and ministries to specify the activities and funding opportunities needed for the development of selected areas. These areas are very diverse, so their needs are also very diverse. We want to reach all the roadmaps for the development of focus areas during this spring to launch these necessary measures already in the autumn. Good listeners! Estonian scientists and research leaders have been doing excellent work for years, have been among the world's strongest in many areas and have been able to increase their level even in times of lower funding. Thank you for that. You and I are experiencing this moment when Estonia's strong science begins to become the strength of Estonian society and economy. A great deal of work has been done to achieve this, to experience disappointments, setbacks, and to learn further lessons. We need to move on to keep the momentum and grow it. Public R &amp; D funding will increase by 40 million euros in 2022, thus increasing to 323.7 million euros. The public contribution to R &amp; D has never been this high. This is the momentum that our scientists and businesses really need to make progress. Changing the structure of the economy and people's habits is not easy, but we do not have a choice. If we do not do so, sooner or later both the welfare of Estonian society and the wage growth of people will stop, and the development needs of the Estonian state will remain unresolved. Developments in previous years give reason to believe that this is not the case. The scientific excellence in Estonia contributes more and more to the development of society and economy. More and more businesses have chosen to benefit from science-based and technology-intensive development. The country is in the final stages of creating an environment conducive to change. Targets have been agreed, let us only have the wisdom and perseverance to move toward them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U684	Prime Minister, members of the Riigikogu also want to ask. Starting Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U685	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I have been waiting all day for someone to say that the Government of the Republic will have one year of office today, so that no one will congratulate you on this. I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna fill that gap. In my opinion, this last year has been much more friendly in Estonia, and it has been much easier to breathe, perhaps not always in this hall, this friendliness has not shown itself to be more knowledge-based and knowledge-intensive. But my question is actually very specific, precisely in the field of science. Has the government or, as you know, the Ministry of Education discussed whether Estonia should ever think about changing this so-called Bologna system in higher education? There's been a lot of talk about it. I know President Alar Karis has said that if he was the rector of the university, he refused to go even to the first-level exams or to go there in order not to give them any priority. The question is, is it meant to turn this 3+2 into, for example, 5 in the Faculty of Law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U686	Thank you. There have been no formal discussions of this kind. I, when I have met the Rectors, have asked for this, and indeed there are opinions that there are many shortcomings in this system, but there are no constant reforms in the same higher education. Since this system has in some ways eaten or settled in, it should continue to do so at the moment. No one has made such a proposal to go back to changing this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U687	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U688	Good manager! Prime Minister! Unlike Valdo Randpere's accepting speech, I will not congratulate his ex-wife or the government in the year when the power structures changed circumstances. But my question is, we have a $100 million debt to universities. There was only a demonstration here on how to get alms for universities and scientists, especially younger people. And now I hear we're in the final stretch. But my question is that the grass is coming, and you're a very enthusiastic character. Once, a few years ago, the Stockholm Institute said it would cost some 17 billion. At the moment, entrepreneurs have thought that it would have to be multiplied by some two or three. Are there any such funds allocated, studies that it will actually cost Estonia, to various areas of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U689	Thank you. Your question reminded me that I did not thank you for your congratulations. Thank you for your congratulations. Really, it's been a year in the government. Now from your question, there were so many different components. First of all, as far as higher education is concerned, we are currently talking about all this research development and, of course, higher education is a part of it. We also know that higher education has financing problems, and that is what we will be discussing in the government on Thursday. The Minister of Education also comes up with his proposals. No one can say the price tag for a green turn, I think, specifically. Just as no one can say in concrete terms what its price tag is if we do not take all these steps, given that the living environment becomes uninhabitable. So if I compare these two things, I think that not taking these steps will be more expensive than taking these steps. The current energy crisis is a good example. In fact, in order to have more renewable energy, there would be more production capacity based on different energy sources, we would not now be struggling with such high electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U690	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U691	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Prime Minister! You have highlighted many good examples of successful and innovative developments in Estonia. I am also pleased that you mentioned national sciences, because national sciences are precisely the things that can only be studied in Estonia and not anywhere else in the world. If we are looking for what Estonia can contribute to the world, which are these unique things, then it is the national sciences that provide us with these answers, because our greatest challenge in the 21st century is how to combine the wisdom of the ancestors with the fundamental technological changes that we face. But in a situation where, for example, universities once again announced last week that if they did not get more resources, they would have to close things down. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] National sciences suffer the most. Another example is the Estonian Literary Museum, a folklore archive, which also fails to...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U692	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U693	... to perform basic functions. What are the concrete steps you take to better fund national sciences?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U694	Thank you. Everything you're saying is very right. Exactly, it is the national sciences that only Estonia can do, and no one else will do it for us, and that is why the same Estonian national sciences are one of the focus areas. Now, as far as funding for higher education is concerned, indeed, these problems have deepened. We have an agreement in the coalition agreement that we are looking for ways to include private money in higher education. There are a number of proposals with which the Minister of Education will come to the study on Thursday to see what are the small steps that can be taken to solve this problem. And when I've spoken to the rectors of universities, I didn't get the impression that the first thing they did was go to national science, because their understanding is also that it's what no one else does. But, of course, we're looking for extra money to cover that hole that's gotten worse. Basically, the concrete steps we can take are actually different small steps that can be taken. For example, should there be free higher education? It's that you get one full-time study at the university and it's free, but if you're going to do another degree, maybe it shouldn't be free. Micro-degree opportunities are those that universities already use, people just want to learn more in lifelong learning, they may not want to go through the whole course. There must be such opportunities, and the law would also allow them to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U695	Valdo Randpere has a procedural problem. What's troubling your heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U696	I have a procedural question. I would actually like to talk about a bit of equal treatment here at the moment when we are asking questions. When I asked my question, one minute the meeting manager started ringing the bell and basically interrupted me. I couldn't even give an example of how President Alar Karis, rector, refused to attend the Bachelor's Level Activities at the University of Tartu because he found that only people who obtained a Master's degree had obtained a higher education and he didn't go to these Bachelor's degrees. I couldn't give you that example. But here they asked Ruuben Kaalepi a question that was very meaningful in my opinion, and very reasonable that you let him speak for a while. He had a minute and 20 seconds. And now, the Prime Minister answered at length and thoroughly, so there was a good question. So don't be such a middleman that you can beat up your own people here and keep strangers. Be fair to everyone, either you give everyone a minute and 20 seconds, a late night hour, or you don't give anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U697	Good Valdo! I think that if we go ahead with this protocol, I'm afraid you'll find a pattern like that in there that at one minute and one second or two seconds the bell was ringing, about a minute and ten seconds later, "Please ask! " And then, Mr. Kaalepi was a minute and 17, you had about a minute and 16 seconds. So in that sense, I think you'll find exactly the same seconds there. And I keep the same line: When the minute is full, I'll give you a bell, if you don't react to the bell, I'll give you an oral signal: "Please ask! " I can't do anything different here. Still equally everyone. But if there's really momentum, no matter what, I'd like to give it a little bit longer, but I can't, the rules won't allow it. So let's try to fit the question in one minute, then we don't have to ring the bell. Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U698	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I hope that I can put two questions in one question, as we have only one question. I have a question that we are small and poor people. And the areas that I'd like to develop are the right ones. Do you think that the priorities that we have and have been through your speech are correct, or should this focus be narrower or wider? And if it was as much as it's up to you, where do you draw it? That's one part. And the other thing is that when this debate on public funding was that 1% of the GDP would go to research development, it was also said that hopefully the business sector would come for the public sector as well. What's the status this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U699	Thank you. Very good questions, both of them. Yes, these areas of focus, on the one hand, all who do not seem to fall under it, say that this area should be and there should be another. This has been discussed between various experts and these focus areas have been selected. Digital solutions, it's just our strength in the world, we're known for it, it makes sense that there's a need for it. Health technologies are also something that is becoming more and more heard or needed in an ageing society. Once again, being a small country, we cannot offer services or products to a wide range of masses, but rather those that help to solve certain niche problems. Sustainable energy solutions, that's what the whole world's haunted by. Since we also have companies that do, for example, hydrogen and storage technologies, it is once again a specific niche. And last, viable Estonia. Just as I replied to Reuben Kaalepi that no one will do the business of Estonian society, nation and cultural space unless we do it ourselves. So they seem very reasonable to me. Now, the second question, which concerns this coming after the business sector, is good news. For a long time, it has been a problem that the private sector does not invest so much. But last year, for the first time, the private sector exceeded public investment in R &amp; D. As they have also made this "2% club," which brings together companies that invest at least 2% in R &amp; D or more than EUR 10 million, it is also a matter of pride. This is debatable, but when you talk to entrepreneurs, since this may not have been the case in the past, it did not always mean that companies did not make enough effort. But I'm glad it's actually on the rise, and this whole set will definitely bring a positive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U700	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U701	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I couldn't find this number here in the brief summary we were given. You read how these funds were divided. But I'd rather ask. I understand that you have made it very clear that all the things you have read are a priority. Do you think that our national sciences or viable Estonia will receive enough money, whether it is adequately funded or should it be increased? And then what's the amount of money they're gonna get?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U702	Yeah, thanks! Well, you know, while you're here in the Riigikogu, that in fact, all areas could always get more money. I don't think anyone's saying we have too little money, we can handle it, take it from us, give it to somebody else. It certainly isn't. So there could always be more. But now, when you come to specific numbers, it's basically basic funding, and then it's a competitive part. And now, purely from national sciences, this basic funding share of 5%, or 2.6 million euros in 2022, will go further to institutions that are developing national sciences in particular. Currently, this amount is divided between seven institutions: the Institute of Estonian Language, the Estonian Literary Museum, the Estonian Academy of Arts, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the University of Tallinn, the University of Tartu and the ETA Under and Tuglas Literature Centre. Every year, when basic funding increases, national science also increases. This year it was 1.5 million more than two years ago. So purely... And through the higher education operating grant aimed at the University of Tartu, the total number of national professors, 11 professorships, both teaching and research, is supported and amounts to 1.2 million euros. Did I say "kron" in between? I sounded like I said "crown." I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U703	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U704	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! My question comes from this area of nuclear energy. That is what we are talking about more and more often both in the Committee on the Environment and in this large Chamber. And last April, on 8 April, a working group was set up and, in fact, you produce sustainable energy solutions in your own development areas. The Nuclear Energy Task Force should reach some kind of roadmap, but we know that this initiative, if any, will cost a great deal, especially in the light of developments in the research sector in the national perspective. Is there any means for this now? Do we at some point have an understanding of what this will cost our research and development and whether it will be developing some kind of seed money, in this strategic plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U705	Thank you. That's a good question! We discussed this issue in relation to this whole energy crisis, and indeed, an analysis of the introduction of nuclear energy should be completed in 2024. But it seems too far away, and the common understanding in the government or the cabinet was that it had to be brought back. What does the Minister of the Environment or the Ministry of the Environment say about this? This means that we need to channel more money there, because there is now one person who is doing this analysis. There is not just this ability because we do not have such basic science and it has to be learned actually elsewhere or collected elsewhere. So there was an agreement that the Minister for the Environment would have to make concrete proposals on how to proceed with this process. And let's make sure we can accelerate this process. And it's only about getting answers to the question of whether it makes sense at all, and if it makes sense, what amount or size is reasonable and in what time frame it all makes sense. So the goal is to bring earlier than 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U706	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U707	Prime Minister! Still glad when the numbers go up, in national science. Yet, these funds have been paid before. Yet there are important signals here and there that money has not reached the right place. The Literary Museum is squealing. I give an example of history: ten years ago, a Viking ship was discovered in Salme, and everyone else is investigating, but ours have no money. The Danes are studying it, the Swedes are investigating it, everyone knows it's an extraordinary subject in history, but they've been struggling for ten years. There's some kind of glitch somewhere, whether it's money or somewhere else. I have a request that you pass it on to the Minister of Education. And in the nature of the question, I can ask you that. Shouldn't the Minister of Education be dealing with removing such barriers that money is being allocated somewhere, but it doesn't get where it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U708	Thank you. As I said in the speech, our research institutions and universities are autonomous and we are proud that they are so autonomous. Now, if you want to prescribe what you need to study exactly, it's just a glitch. And in general, universities do not want to allow this autonomy to be violated in any way. The share of basic funding has been increased and is not specifically guided by what universities study or study in the framework of their autonomy. However, we also have this competitive funding, with which different ministries come before the Research and Development Council, which evaluates these different projects, and there is already a concrete possibility, for example, for the Ministry of Culture, to come up with a proposal that specifically addresses the problems that you have highlighted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U709	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U710	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! My question concerns this very positive news that really private sector investments have done so well. I would like to ask if you have any information on the area in which these private sector investments in R &amp; D have taken place. Last year, there was one such as half of it in the information and communications sector, is that still the case? And in connection with that, it's a matter of concern at the Institute of Computer Science. For example, to point out that, on average, teachers pay this operating grant money worth EUR 1200 if wages are three to four times higher in the same sector. Jaak Vilo, Head of the Institute, writes that 43 competitions were held, only six Estonian citizens qualified at all. Growth is a very big problem. How can we increase private investment while the ability to teach people from higher education is so low? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U711	Thank you. Indeed, investment in the IT sector is 50% of these R &amp; D activities. That's still the case. We hope, of course, that the industrial sector will follow. And when we looked at, for example, when there was an economic forecast, when we looked at, for example, when there were economic forecasts and economic estimates, it was interesting that in fact this share of the IT sector in the whole economy quite increased. What is positive is that there are higher-paid jobs. But indeed this problem, to which you point, is that the salaries of teachers are actually well below those of employees in this area, that is indeed the case. And that is why we have also foreseen this doctoral reform to actually channel more money into doctoral studies, who can actually choose their careers in such a way that they can also do the work of teaching staff and continue their contribution to science. This doctoral reform is also to be discussed by the Riigikogu and all good thoughts are, of course, welcome to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U712	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U713	Thank you. I can't help but ask about agricultural science. What is the state of agricultural science, breeding, breeding, plant health in relation to climate change? I know that Finland is studying food production opportunities in relation to climate change, climate warming in 2030, for example. I also know the finances of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. And I have never understood why the Ministry of Rural Affairs is such a despised ministry, which still has relatively less money than other ministries, whether for wages or research. But I ask whether our government has shown its will for such research, for example in relation to the climate change that needs to be done in food production, for example, so that in 2030-2040 we can still have food production guaranteed and we can manage.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U714	Thank you. You are, of course, a greater expert in this field than I am. All I can do is say or talk about it, in the number language that goes there, when we talk about agriculture and veterinary. At the research grant competition of the Research Agency, 12% have received agriculture and veterinary services. I don't know what's in there specifically, in that respect, I owe you an answer. Biosciences and environmental sciences are also 23% of grants, and they probably match that. So also food safety... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! I don't have that bad disease, but I have a cough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U715	Is there water? There's plenty of water?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U716	I'm drinking that water, too, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U717	I'm asking if there's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U718	It's-it's-it's-it's on. If we now had this competitive distribution of money, i.e. where the ministries requested it, the Ministry of Rural Affairs also received four million for research and development to support food safety and the sustainability of agriculture and the competitiveness of the food sector. I suppose it could, you know, go down there, they'll handle it specifically, but I don't really know how to go that well. A very specific question, which could then be asked more by the Minister for Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U719	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U720	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I see one rather major problem in the fact that the project-based funding for science is too high. Serious research needs stability and stable funding and time. But we have a proportion outside. For example, the Estonian Research Council requested a group of 233 research groups, but the guarantor only received 43. And they all had to do weeks of work to file this application. Often it tends to be such a lottery victory. But in my eyes, such persistent, stable, deepened research suffers from this project orientation. Do you see a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U721	This has been the case for a long time, but this is no longer the case, because in recent years, the state has devoted more resources to the basic science facility. For example, in the last six years, basic funding has risen from 13.88 million to 52.3 million. That when taken last year, even this year, the state's basic and competitive funding for science has been balanced, i.e. 1% of these additional funds have gone to both of them to keep this balance. And how this basic funding is distributed within the university, that is again the issue of university autonomy, in which the state does not intervene directly, but yes, in fact it has improved much in the last six years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U722	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U723	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have such a question that a year will soon end in high school and career paths will be chosen. If you were to give them a short motivational speech to get interested in R &amp; D, would you tell them something that would attract them to science?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U724	Yeah, that's a good question. I would certainly say that any learning and curiosity is actually the driving force to be curious. Science, basic science, in fact, is very much based on curiosity. And with that curiosity, you might find solutions to the problems that exist in the world, but on which you might find a solution. When you look at where the world is moving, we live in an increasingly global world, and this gives our children, students, students, more and more opportunities. Science provides such a good basis for inventing something new, looking for something new, proposing something new and actually solving the problems facing society. What I want to say is that I meet a lot of young people, young people in high school, and for me it is very inspiring, because these young people are doing and thinking things and solutions that, above all, help to improve the environment. Very often already they work with universities, be it material science, for example. This curiosity leads them there, and it's very positive. It seems to me that young people are seeing and wanting to see green turns happen, that the environment is cleaner, and that they want the economic model to be able to enjoy the same well-being as we have enjoyed, but that it does not hurt nature, and that they are looking for solutions to do so. Science is exactly where these solutions are actually found.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U725	Prime Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have run out of questions. Thank you very much and, of course, we wish the government every success for the next few years. It is now time for the political groups to negotiate and first for the middle group to come to Aadu Black. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U726	Just in case, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U727	Yeah, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U728	Madam Prime Minister! Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this review, which contained a number of well-liked aspects. I am sure to agree with the Group and the Committee on Culture that, in general, Estonian scientists, the organisers of science, also officials, have worked well in the framework they have been given. How big or small this frame is, of course, a separate question. I'd like to do a little... So, and yet I might say that, of course, the same issues have been discussed well in the Committee on Culture. We've got 24 subjects I'd like to do more, so here I can make some picks. It was very interesting to listen to the discussion, not only the speech, but also the discussion, and the questions that were discussed here are all relevant. And when asked, for example, if the Bologna University system should be abolished, I have had the honour of talking to the Bologna Rector, who said that we did not use it, this is for those universities that you used to be called technicians. I have also spoken exactly, for example, all of us have once cursed Oki's report; I have also talked about this with Mr Oki himself, who also cursed this report. And so on. But I'd still like to jump a little sideways and towards politics. First of all, the format. Years ago, it was found that it was necessary to discuss research and development every year, so important that the Prime Minister had to talk about it. And I'm sure that decision in my time was very right. A few years ago, we came to discover that we were talking about a stool or rather two legs of a stool and how well he stays, but we don't talk about the other two feet. There is certainly a need to complete the correction of timidly corrected errors and to talk about research and development together with higher education. If Estonia has a central research system for higher education or universities, it is not possible for us to talk about one side, the other as a shame. A few years ago it was said that we did not have to talk, that we were talking about research and development, that humanities were not to be talked about, because they were not development, that social sciences were not to be talked about, that they were not development. That is what they said in Europe, and then when Brexit came, they said, oh, but why hasn't there been talk about social sciences and so on and so forth and so forth and so forth. Why has this part of knowledge been left unexplored and neglected at all? However, I also mention the experience of other countries. In the age of TV and Internet connection, we have had many opportunities to talk, to consult our partners in other countries, through the Baltic Assembly, in particular the Benelux and Nordic countries. And they said one of those wisdoms that we know a little bit and don't know a little bit. In times of crisis, for example during the corona crisis, it is important that Parliament's most important work is to ensure that the country is strong after the crisis. Some suffer for years to come, have difficulty getting up from their feet, some go on vigorously and win in competition. That is what our colleagues from a number of developed countries are saying. And that's why I want to say that it's us, not us, not how to go about it. I read the materials of Deputy Chancellor Sven Kirsipuu of the Ministry of Finance. He never presented these tables. And, you know, I can't demonstrate who needs to be here, the ability to send a copy, or the Ministry of Finance will send it, no matter how. But Sven Kirsipuu did a nice table where he shows how national tax revenues and money placed in science are highly correlated. By the way, there is one sympathetic difference between Estonia, which is the only one who can put more weight on thin countries than one could expect from thin countries. It has two sides. On the one hand, of course, it can be seen that, therefore, the enthusiasm of scientists, which lives, is very much to blame for our success, and I dare say, yet, not yet the faith of extinct education and science in Estonia, which has brought our people so far. But there's also troubles. And the concerns are that... Let us discuss what, when we talk about research policy, what is our decision-making field at all. Of course, it changes in time, but more and more in other parts of the world, it is said that all progressive economic theories are progressive in their own time. We are still talking about low taxes, thin countries, that the state is a bad host, that it is cheaper to buy in future services from the private sector. And I want to tell you that thin country theory is working. One day, an-Nā"ir, or the President of Egypt, who says Gamal Abdel Nasser, who an-Nā"ir, said that he was taught by an Estonian. It was the most prominent economist in the Republic of Estonia, Nikolai Köstner, who said already then: the theory of a thin state is very good for colonies who will not decide for themselves anyway. We have also said here that, in the meantime, there was even a slogan that the country was ready, that we are dealing with fine-tuning. Well, that's one of the dumbest ideas in the country. And where are we going now? If any of you have read, I was told that both members of the Riigikogu have read, such a fine book as Mariana Mazzucato's "Mission Economy," they say, you will see that there is a lot of talk about state mistakes, mismanagement. And embarrassing, you read it, and sometimes there's a feeling that the devils have written off Estonia, just to make mistakes. I am not as desperate as I may now appear, but if we are planning a future, we must look at the fact that a thin state cannot make promises from a wealthy country, a country with a high income base. If he's saying this, they'll think he's lying, and inevitably he's lying, because we actually have a blanket torn through the ages. Luckily, it's gotten better. Ten years ago, there was a hard blanket torn between different disciplines in the Riigikogu right here. Physics said to teach mathematics and physics, humanities are almost evil. We're over it. But right now, ripping the blanket is still going on in this very thin country between different areas of public activity. And the fact that we have a chronic lack of money requires a review of tax policy. But anyway, what I'm trying to say is that, of course, we also have to do our day-to-day work. As I said, we have been relatively well engaged, I would like to congratulate the Development Monitoring Centre, which works quite well for us, also gives good advice to the government. There's one more thing. We have a science academy, too. And it seems to me that if scientists also need a little bit of feeding their enthusiasm, then members of the Academy of Sciences, see, they also receive a scholarship for their work and it is a little smaller than as a member of the sauna council in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U729	Dear Professor...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U730	And I suggest that the Prime Minister think with the Minister of Education, increase their scholarship a little. If the 750 is large, an increase of 500, or half, could be feasible for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U731	Sometimes it's the chronic lack of time that surrounds us here. And here we have eight minutes to go. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U732	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this speech was supposed to be made here today by Jaak White, but unfortunately, he suddenly got sick. Luckily, I don't think it's the corona. But that's why I'm honored to read his report. I do not have much to say about the Prime Minister's presentation. This is an important issue that should be dealt with in greater detail, and the main ways of this presentation should have come to us much earlier. I do not know how much benefit such a so-called debate will be. After all, this is not a debate, it is a monologue. Soon we will have a draft law on the organisation of research and development coming to Parliament, and it will be like with these big drafts when relations between the legislative and executive powers have been turned upside down. It comes in a ready form for us, and we can usually make cosmetic adjustments there. In fact, even if we accept that the drafts are huge bureaucratic dragons, we, in other words, legislators and representatives of the people, should offer the basic concept or vision that officials shape into the draft. The fact that drafts dealing with some details come from officials is acceptable, but this should not be the case for drafts with a large scope. But the main problem with Estonian science is the fact that Estonian science is weakly linked to Estonian society. The Prime Minister's speech made it clear that private funding constituted half of the total funding for science and had been presented as an achievement. The direction is right, but it should be noted that this is still a very small change. While in 2017 public funding accounted for 51% of total development and research funding in Estonia, now 50% and on average 33 in the European Union, progress is not significant and this situation is far from satisfactory. And the main reason probably is that private money does not see enough of the outputs we need in research. Excessive project orientation remains a major concern in the faculty's view. Of course, competition is a driving factor, but research also needs stability. But the proportion is out of place. Too much of the scientific community's income depends on whether or not it gets the next project. And, of course, it is not about income stability, but also about research and achieving good research results. Training for growth and so on requires stability. The central instrument of our state's research policy is the Estonian Research Council. As can be read on the ETAg website, EUR 71.8 million per year is allocated to research activities. I don't know any active scientist who'd be happy with ETAg's money-sharing system. I haven't talked to everyone, and maybe they are, but I don't know any. Firstly, the research grants offered do not meet the demands of Estonian society. I illustrate it with the humanities. Humanities are more individual activities than other disciplines. Our research is crowned with a monograph, which is by default necessary to become a professor. Monographs are also taken into account in the award of research awards. However, there is no doubt about the need. I would like to congratulate the Postman, who introduced two grand programmes aimed at supporting humanities and social research, which contribute to the sustainability of Estonian nation, language and culture and to the development of the sense of self-consciousness of Estonian society. These are relatively small amounts compared to what ETAg distributes and there have been very many requests, although only a few receive the grant. The amount of the book grant is EUR 33000. If ETAg, or the Estonian Research Council, had a guarantee of a relatively small amount of money, one million, we would get a few dozen monographs each year. In ten years, we've lost dozens of important monographs. Secondly, the proportion of successful implementation of ETAg grant applications is too low in circumstances where the proportion of project-based funding for science is still too high. For example, the group group group applied for 233 research groups, doing, by the way, a number of weeks of work to prepare it. But the grant was only 43, or 18%. So it's like getting a research award, but it may take several weeks to write an application for this competition, which in four of the five cases will be useless. Thirdly, the evaluation of applications is random. The involvement of external reviewers is not working. The opinions of foreign reviewers when assessing national sciences are particularly funny. As a rule, these are not competent people, as I, for example, do not have the authority to assess the questions of France's history. Such extensive use of foreign reviewers characterises us who have been freed from occupation for the last 30 years as a colonial country. The knowledge that the application is recendented by an alien directs the application to be written, not in Estonian-centred, but rather following some globalist-political trend, which, of course, also reverses the outcome of the research. I've seen 62 people in ETAg. It's like a very large research institute. In the predecessor of ETAg, the Estonian Science Foundation, where the allocation of grants was much more flexible, three people, as far as I know, worked. It was three, and today it's 62. But it is true that ETAg also has wider tasks, such as ensuring gender equality. This equality is not understood logically in such a way that assessments should be made regardless of gender, because strictly respecting scientific indicators ensures scientific progress. But it is understood that men and women should be organised equally among the collections and members of the Commission and the experts involved, grants, prizes and grants applicants and recipients. At the same time, of the 62 employees of ETAg's own, 52 women and of the 11 employees of the administration are 10 women and one man, namely an IT specialist. I don't think there's any need for comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U733	Under the authority of the Social Democratic Party, Raimond Kaljulaid, please! Do you have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U734	Let's see how it goes. Thank you, good Vice-President of the Riigikogu, for giving the floor and empowering social democrats! And, Prime Minister, I will certainly join in congratulating you on this year's fulfillment. I think it's important. The government that preceded it undermined Estonia's security, divided society, had been there for six months. So I think, in that sense, we're definitely on a better path. Social Democrats, of course, attach exceptional importance to the support of science and the cooperation of the state with research institutions. I think that one of the lessons of the crisis in the corona virus must certainly be how important science-based decision-making is. We can see how great the role of the scientific council that advises the government has been in shaping the decisions of both the previous government and the current government, or, to be exact, the role of the previous scientific council maybe we have seen a little more than the role of the current scientific council. Some people think it's a good thing. Some people don't. Now, the rapid development of vaccines has undoubtedly been very important to achieve that we can, at least in part, keep society free today. The vaccines have undoubtedly escaped millions of lives worldwide. In this crisis, scientists have had a very important word to say and this crisis is not over. Science plays a crucial role in raising awareness of the threat of climate change. In fact, one of the first world leaders to give serious attention to climate issues was British Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. He took it very seriously, even though some of his advisers did not even understand it because scientists warned him. And he took scientists very seriously. It is interesting in itself that today's conservatives no longer believe in science. Now, in fact, also in the security crisis, I think the input given to the members of the Riigikogu and to the government by our security experts in Russia and the region, but also more generally by experts in the field of international relations, is very valuable. In fact, this is inevitable in the face of this security crisis. But, above all, I would like to point out what the Prime Minister has also touched on, as regards the fact that private sector R &amp; D expenditure is increasing, past public expenditure. In 2020, R &amp; D expenditure exceeded 1% of GDP for the first time in 10 years. It is very important that this trend is sustainable, but, unfortunately, what is happening especially in recent months in the economy has a direct negative impact on companies' ability to invest and also to contribute to R &amp; D. The energy price crisis is not only very painful for domestic consumers. This is actually causing a very serious headache for companies based on Estonian capital, and we must all understand that this crisis will not pass in a few months. As the running costs of companies increase, some of this results in higher prices, but in part it certainly reduces the opportunities to invest and contribute to innovation. In the long term, this will certainly hamper the international competitiveness of Estonian companies. This week, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu has devoted considerable working time to analysing this situation from the viewpoint of entrepreneurship and Estonian industry. The brief summary is that the situation is very bad. Unfortunately, now that we are talking about innovation and the green turnaround, entrepreneurs in the Committee on Economic Affairs also acknowledged that, despite their willingness to make substantial investments in the construction of wind energy in Estonia, the Estonian state has far from done enough to support the development of wind energy. It was also mentioned, among other things, that these wind energy investments would then be made to other countries, not to Estonia. I stress that this criticism did not go against today or the previous government, but it is a longer-term problem that has existed in Estonia. Another example is solar energy. This week, I met, among other things, a representative organisation of companies in this area. I learned that there are municipalities in Estonia that fight with solar panels, for example, do not allow them to be erected on the roof on the street side. Hello, tali! When we talk about solar and wind energy, about the development of renewable energy at all, about technological innovation, when we cannot do basic things that easily, it is very distinctive. If I may, I'll ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U735	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U736	Hanno Pevkur turned into Martin Helme, that's a miracle of science! This week, I think the Riigikogu made an undoubtedly symbolic decision and it concerns the approval by the Riigikogu of some improvements to the "Objective 55" package of measures by the Government. Now, it is quite obvious that there are areas of economic life for which the 'Objective 55' measures have a negative impact, but we do not know how extensive this impact is, because we do not yet have enough in-depth analysis of this. For example, according to the Government's explanatory memorandum, changes in land use and forestry can significantly affect the competitiveness of peat production, agriculture and forestry sectors in Estonia. The explanatory memorandum estimates that employment in the forestry sector could be reduced by thousands of workers, the value added created by the sector by hundreds of millions of euros. It must be understood that the well-being of the forestry sector is important for the Estonian economy. Tax receipts in the forestry sector exceed a billion euros and are more than 10% of Estonian tax revenues. From the point of view of the Estonian economy, it is very important that the forestry sector has the means and opportunities to invest, among other things, in technologies and innovative technologies, which would enable timber to be deserved here in Estonia and on the ground. We have good preconditions for making smart investments in this area to significantly improve the competitive position of companies in the sector internationally. But it is clear that if the revenues of these companies decrease, they will also have fewer resources to make investments. Another example. At present, it can be assumed that "Objective 55" could also undermine the competitive position of our maritime sector, which could result in inconveniences such as the price of Finnish-Swedish liner tickets but, for example, channel trade flows to ports in the Russian Federation, which will benefit the Russian state. Unfortunately, according to the explanatory memorandum, this could also reduce the ability of Estonian large maritime companies to invest. At the same time, we expect ship owners to switch to more environmentally friendly technologies, which, indeed, today does not exist to a large extent. The problems that currently and in the next few years hamper the ability of Estonian companies and large companies to invest in new technologies, innovation, are, and are. At the same time, in order not to be wholly negative, it must be said that Estonian companies certainly have an interest and a desire to contribute to innovation. The desire of Estonian capital to do this is very strong. Estonian entrepreneurs want to be internationally competitive when they talk to them. Estonian entrepreneurs want to move up the value chain. We have never accepted that Estonia should be some kind of cheap outsourcing country. On the contrary! So in this sense, I rather have much optimism about the future of the Estonian economy. And clearly, contributing to the financing of R &amp; D must certainly be a long-term and cross-party goal in our country. Thank you! Have a good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U737	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U738	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, I also congratulate myself on the passing of a year. There has been a very pleasant opportunity, and thanks to the government's entry into office, I too was able to participate in the work of the Riigikogu. I'm gonna have a year tomorrow, too. And there is a second time to comment on a speech on research and development. As I did last year before my speech, I consulted my colleagues at the university and am pleased that the message that I was asked to pass was that there is a sincere desire to recognise the government, because several long steps have been taken in supporting R &amp; D and that things are well in the big way, as representatives of several universities say. A scientific agreement was concluded in 2018, with the agreed target of 1% of GDP from 2019 onwards. And it emphasises that compliance with the target of 1% in the 2022 budget is significant, which has brought more than EUR 40 million to science. This is indeed a very big and important achievement. For example, for the first time in the budget of the University of Tartu, the research income exceeds the tuition income this year. In a more difficult situation, of course, there are universities where less science is done. And yet from Alexander von Humboldt's principle in 19th century German universities, which our universities have also followed, the university teaches science. But someone has to teach, and we still have a problem with somebody's salary. So it is sad to say to these congratulations that funding higher education is certainly the most important of the major strategic issues that need attention. I am pleased that all political parties represented in the Riigikogu also consider this important. The representatives of all political parties are part of the support group for certain higher education set up last year, and we hope that the government will also find a solution to this problem, because today it is true that, despite increased research funding, lecturers will leave the university and young people will no longer want to choose an academic career. Rectors of higher education have said that if no extra money is found, they are not prepared to enter into new administrative contracts without an additional 15% each year. 25 million more will be asked in 2023, 28, 32 and 37. I know the government will be discussing this at their next session tomorrow, probably. This is an absolute minimum to help maintain today's level so that the ratio of higher education funding to GDP does not fall below 1%. In fact, the level required for higher education would be 1.5%. Of course, the possibility of including private money also needs to be discussed and it is optimistic that this private money has been allocated to research money, which is likely to be found for higher education, even though it is an even longer-term investment. The question of growth is what worries everyone very much. As the Prime Minister said, we need to protect 300 doctoral thesis a year, but there is no such number. And even though 6 million are intended for doctoral studies, which is really very, very important to allow doctoral students to work as junior researchers, get the average wage in the country and receive social guarantees, it is probably not enough to motivate them to take up doctoral studies, but even more to achieve protection. There's no motivation package right now. Low value of doctorate in the labour market, unattractive academic careers due to low pay and high uncertainty in research still deters young people. This could certainly be improved: better funding for higher education and a more stable funding system in research, as the current basic funding alone will not ensure this. Equal basic financing, combined with competitively, does not guarantee this on its own. There is no guarantee that, today, basic funding will also cover very much university investment and any other costs that cannot be made available for long-term investment in research projects. I think that increasing the money for competitive grants is certainly one thing that will solve it. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U739	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U740	I'm sure that'll help. It is also desirable to thank the Minister for Education and Research for his vigorous intervention, which also reduced the volatility of this year's grant allocation. I'm sure one way out is to get international grants. Estonians have done well, but we should bring in much more research money from the European Horizon, for example or from other sources, because our knowledge and skills would allow it. There is a need to increase infrastructure investments. For example, the need of the University of Tartu alone is more than 1 million euros per year, but the core infrastructure fund of the Riigikogu totals the same amount. One of the key words I would like to mention is certainly that it is not only about money, but also about lack of cooperation. And maybe that is the greatest hope that needs to be met in the new financing system. After all, research money is divided between the Ministry of Education and Research, MKM, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and different ministries 40:40:20. This is a major challenge for cooperation. For the first time, two ministries are responsible for implementing TAIE: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Ministry of Education and Research. The coming years will show how well different ministries are able to spend 20% of their research money. How well they are able to identify the challenges facing the Estonian state and society, which research would help to solve. Since the problems that need to be addressed are mostly cross-cutting, whether it is a health, energy or security crisis or in education, it depends much on how different ministries work together, how much they trust universities where they are mostly used to interdisciplinary research. It is very important that the launch of the new Structural Funds period is crucial this year. Discussions on the focus areas of the R&D&I Strategy have also been launched as a basis for framing structural funds and research grants. On the one hand, as a small country, it really makes sense to make choices in which to invest, while at the same time we need to ensure sectoral diversity in higher education and science and the development of all disciplines. Since both MKM money for business cooperation and ministry grant funds are mainly for applied research and the European Structural Funds are also for smart specialisation and innovation support, there is still a concern who supports basic research. Basic research grants were applied for last year 141. Fifty-six only got the funding. These are mostly very long-term, very well-functioning groups that are currently excluded from funding. Similarly, the focus cannot be narrowly on technological development alone, but must also include social sciences and humanities. In this presentation by the Prime Minister, I know that he himself does not search for these success stories, I am concerned that, as far as I am aware, no major developments in social science and humanities or any monographs that deserved to be highlighted, and that is worrying. Because, in fact, in the major crises that we have, it is the ability of humanitarian and natural scientists to understand why we have come into these crises. The world is divided by various differences of opinion [because], even the same crisis of confidence in science is what the corona crisis has shown. To understand this, the ability of humanities and social sciences to help people understand, to understand cultures, to understand why such crises arise and what are the mechanisms for society to function. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Although we do not lack science and precision, (Director: "You have full time.") The last sentence of the text is clear that funding all these different fields of science, critical thinking, understanding cultures will help us further in development. Empathy and cooperation skills are also the skills that higher education should provide, and these are those that social and humanitarian scientists can also develop in universities. Thank you very much. And with the hope that this diversity will continue not only in nature but also in science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U741	There's a raging allusion. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U742	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Allow me, too, to congratulate the government this year, and I especially congratulate Margiti, who has received this thanks to the Riigikogu. Margiti and I are practically neighbors in Tartu, and the university has our offices on the same floor. This does not mean that our positions have been harmonised in any way. It is gratifying that in the current situation, where we are being shaken by several crises at once, the Prime Minister finds time to come and give us an overview of the state of research and development, as well as government policies in these areas. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I am satisfied with these theories that I was able to see, and also with the Prime Minister's speech. There was nothing catastrophic about it, but he reminded me of the times when the meetings were talking about plans and achievements. Perhaps these achievements are not quite wrong, yes, but I would have preferred a different format at the moment, where problems and the search for solutions were discussed. We saw that there were practically only two problems, maybe I got caught in the ear. [It was said] that little doctorate is, doctoral students in no way protect too quickly or quickly enough. I think the problem is even deeper. This press, which has been put on doctoral students, has often influenced the quality of the thesis and is much worse than quantitative shortcomings. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we must compare ourselves not with post-Soviet countries, but with Scandinavia, for example, and with societies in other progressive countries. But this financing model, which we currently have in the Republic of Estonia, is not only a fix on the lag, but it is a set-down and deepening of the fall-back. Yesterday, the Rector of the University of Tartu, Toomas Asser, said in the Vikerradio programme "News+" that universities will not sign administrative agreements with the state unless the government finds additional resources for the next three years. Yes, administrative costs are important, but I have always been more interested in [people], concerns about people. It has been worried that there are too many foreign students and foreign professors in Estonian universities. I don't share that concern. The situation isn't that we have one on the soup bin, and if they get anything out of it, we're gonna get thinner. It's not like that, on the contrary, soup gets thicker. It is important to us that Estonian universities are so attractive that students and foreign professors would like to come here. But it must not be at the expense of education in Estonian. That's right. We talk and have repeatedly talked about the fact that Estonian teachers are not paid enough and that is correct. But even worse for those who teach teachers. If we compare how much Estonian professors especially in the humanitarian and social fields get compared to foreign professors, it is better not to talk about it. But the professors can handle it. My concern is always about young people. The burden and wages of the lecturers are disgraceful. If a doctorate faculty gets less than a schoolteacher, it's not normal. That doesn't mean a schoolteacher gets too much. I mean, we focus on doctoral studies and doctoral studies are quite well funded in Estonia. And I support the measures that the government is proposing, but the problem is for young people what happens after defending their doctorate. Many have very high stress at the time of their doctoral thesis and this slows down their doctoral thesis. Where are they going? Postdoctoral studies are few, there are few jobs, and I will not repeat what has been said here about grants. At the same time, the grands aren't bad, but we're out of proportion. There must also be constant jobs and so on. What else is important? I want to say to the Prime Minister that I like him to give examples of his family, even though he gets criticism for it in the press and elsewhere. I like it when a politician is a living person, not an automatic who whines about his written text. Let me give you some examples. Of my 12 grandchildren, five are studying in higher education institutions, four are studying abroad. The difference between those who study in Estonia and those who work in Estonia is that all four of them work. For example, in the Netherlands, where three of my grandchildren are studying, there are great advantages, and universities and employers work together. Employers are interested in students coming. There's an IT specialist who knows my grandson, he's a very wealthy family, he didn't need a job, he graduated brilliantly, all fives, but he didn't get a job. He can't compete with those who maybe learned a little worse, but who have work experience. And it's the state to make a model that would encourage employers to hire students. I had all kinds of good suggestions, but I can't get everything at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U743	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations. There are no more requests to speak, and we can consider this item to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U744	Let's move on to our agenda. The eighth item is the draft law amending the International Sanctions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Flag Law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act, bill number 492 SE, first reading. And I call here the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa as a waitress for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U745	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft is primarily designed to ensure that we implement financial sanctions in accordance with international standards. Through better financial sanctions, we will ensure a better economic environment in the financial sector. It is also important to preserve Estonia's reputation and enhances Estonia's credibility in the eyes of foreign partners. Under the current International Sanctions Act, financial institutions are able to control sanction subjects on a "list" basis, but more than list-based checks are needed. In order to identify, mitigate and manage sanction risks, a financial institution must have a good framework of compliance that corresponds to the activities of, and risks inherent in, a financial institution. A good compliance framework will help financial institutions to prevent infringements of sanctions and prevent them from being exploited to circumvent financial sanctions. Consequently, the obligations of persons subject to a special obligation are specified. These are mainly financial institutions whose liabilities are specified. In particular, there will be an obligation to establish an international system of sanction risk mitigation and risk management. By using a risk management system, it will be better able to identify persons subject to financial sanctions and to apply the necessary measures to those persons, for example by freezing assets. A risk-based approach and the application of due diligence measures are not a new obligation for financial institutions. They currently have such obligations under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. This draft specifies that the same principles need to be applied to the control of financial sanctions. Consequently, these obligations are generally familiar to persons with specific obligations, and the establishment or consolidation of a framework for the compliance of financial sanctions does not require a large amount of additional resources or changes. As a significant change, misdemeanours are also included in the draft in order to impose penalties for breaches of the obligations imposed. The misdemeanours imposed help to ensure the correct application of financial sanctions. It is also important to point out that an evaluation of the Council of Europe Committee of Experts on Combating Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing is underway, which also assesses whether Estonia applies financial sanctions in accordance with international standards. If shortcomings in implementation are found, Estonia can get a poor assessment of this in its assessment. This may lead to Estonia being publicly referred to as high-risk countries with shortcomings in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This means that companies and persons here will be treated in other countries as clients with higher risks and correspondent relationships with Estonian financial institutions may be interrupted. Thus, the problems of complying with international international sanctions may cause international restrictions on the financial sector and difficulties in dealing with financial institutions in other countries. This would severely undermine Estonia's competitiveness as well as its international reputation. We have therefore planned the entry into force of the Act before the aforementioned expert committee visits to Estonia, which will take place in the first half of March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U746	Thank you very much. Questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U747	Good manager! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, It's a pleasure to see you rarely in the shadow of the night, and if there's a chance, there's no way I can stop asking what everyone's asking. Do you think Russia will attack Ukraine and if it does, when? It has nothing to do with this bill, but I'm just taking this opportunity for such a rare and important guest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U748	Thank you. This is indeed the most acute issue for Estonia today, on which your question came. However, today I am here on a different subject and therefore I will answer above all the questions relating to the amendments to the International Sanctions Act and international law. However, as far as the security situation in our region is concerned, I am happy to answer these questions in a different way, at another point in time, at the appropriate time. But right now, the Estonian External Action Service, the Estonian Government stands together to help this security crisis, the Russian attack on Ukraine, to prevent Russia's next attack on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U749	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U750	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Well, I'm asking about this bill, although it would have been exciting, of course, to find out how the international situation is looking. As regards § 34 (3) of the current Act, the Estonian Banking Association suggested that this information movement, which is now one-way, consider extending this one provision in order to better ensure effective discussion, including on issues relating to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and dual-use goods. It was rejected, the proposal was rejected. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of why it was ignored and why it didn't find such a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U751	Thank you for that question. Indeed, when drafting the proposal for amendments to this law, the Bank of Estonia was in contact with the Banking Association in order to obtain their opinion, and all the opinions of the Banking Association that took into account or could be taken into account were taken into account. This risk-based assessment system was also considered acceptable on their side. So these changes, which are now precisely to make the transition to this risk-based system, are also coordinated by them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U752	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U753	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, as a clever man and as a diplomat, you skilfully skipped my question. But now I'm going to ask the second question, and it's now related to this bill. Everything smartly written and nice is, but if you should tell your grandmother or some villager, for example, that what this bill actually contains, in clear Estonian, is that where are the ships and who are those persons with special treatment and who can get the five million fine? Please! Peter Ernits, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U754	Thank you for that question. What are we talking about now? In the law on sanctions in general, we are dealing with those measures which would enable us to influence the international situation. And here we are also talking about, for example, the obligations that come to the Estonian state either through the UN Security Council resolution or through the European Union. In other words, the commitments that one or the other organisation has put in place to contribute to peace in the world or to the protection of human rights. Accordingly, there will be some type of sanctions against countries, persons, organizational entities or groups to influence these individuals or groups, for example, to prevent war or to re-establish peace. To this end, sanctions, which are compulsory for countries, will be imposed. At the moment, when we are talking specifically about financial sanctions, which may, for example, have been imposed in one case or another, we in Estonia now have to apply these financial sanctions on a list basis, i.e. a person or group, such as the President of Belarus, is... on a list basis. They only look by name at whether or not he's in the register. However, the people who are in these registers are, of course, intended to circumvent these sanctions. And in order to prevent this diversion, we want to move on to this risk-based situation monitoring. Perhaps if the person on the list of sanctions has an activity, company or ship, his company, for example, has a ship that is somewhere in the... register, then the transition to the current risk-based system will provide an opportunity to look at the wider picture and sanction all related real estate, ships or associated companies' finances. This new system is much more comprehensive and effective in this respect than the current control system according to the lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U755	Heiki Hepner. Before came the procedure, Peter Ernitsa has the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U756	Good manager! Good minister! I'm not a grandmother, but I didn't understand. I realized Lukashenko, this is a bit of a straight shot, but are we talking about Lukashenko's ships? There's no sea, is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U757	Peter, it wasn't really a procedure. You just asked me a third question. Still going on with the questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U758	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Actually, I'm still picking up where I left off the first question. In my opinion, extending the point of this section from the side of the Estonian Banking Association was that the exchange of information would not be one-way and would create this discussion and, precisely, be more effective in implementing the necessary sanctions. And, frankly, I didn't get an answer from you about why it wasn't implemented. But maybe now you're still trying to open it for me. And if you have already brought Belarus in here, I would like to give a practical example of the other half of the question. We know that today Belarus has engaged in hybrid attacks on our good neighbours, and the European Union has also imposed certain sanctions, but our companies are still providing services. How does it come together in the light of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U759	Thank you for that question. The sanction means, let's say, that these changes are not specifically linked to your question at the moment, but, of course, the law on sanctions is itself, so on this point I will respond a little more broadly than this amendment now. And, indeed, with regard to Belarus, five different sanctions packages have already been adopted in the European Union, either against natural or legal persons. The last package was also specifically linked to these hybrid attacks, in other words, to those persons in particular and to legal persons involved in bringing immigrants to Belarus, which were then politically directed by the Belarusian authorities to cross the external borders of the European Union. And the sanctions imposed on these persons and legal persons are not violated by Estonian companies. There is indeed trade with Belarus, but no embargo has been declared against Belarus, i.e. no complete cessation of trade or economic relations has been declared and therefore these activities, economic activities that have not been specifically sanctioned, are currently allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U760	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U761	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! My question does not concern the legal side of this law, but the substance of its point. This would be the case: what sanctions is the European Union prepared to impose on Russia if Russia is carrying out a direct military attack on Ukraine? And what counter-sanctions by Russia could we expect in turn? Do you have any analysis of this at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U762	Thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, these issues have been analysed here in recent months, both in cooperation with the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as, of course, in Brussels, in the European Union. The European Union is ready to adopt influential economic sanctions. They're in preparation. They will be coordinated with co-ordinated allies: the United States, the United Kingdom. And in the details that are precisely in this package of economic sanctions, we are not going publicly, but this package of sanctions is prepared in such a way that it is so influential that it would be economically detrimental to those who threaten another country in Europe by attacking military forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U763	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U764	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear Minister, I have such a simpler, maimier question: can you tell me how much financial costs the adoption of this bill will bring to the Estonian state if it does? And do we need to employ new officials to implement all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U765	Thank you for that question. This amendment does not specifically provide for major financial implications for the public sector, since it mainly affects subjects under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit, thus to some extent both supervisory authorities. However, these supervisory authorities must verify compliance with the obligations imposed. At the same time, the control of these financial institutions is already under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Prevention Act. So now there's just one aspect that's going to be added. As a result of this law, there is no need to create additional posts. The main obligation that we are talking about here in the context of this amendment to the bill comes first and foremost to financial institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U766	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U767	Yeah, thanks! There was another part of my question that you could not answer. In this case, what would be the sanctions against Russia and how could they affect Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U768	What are the possible counter-sanctions on the part of Russia, of course, here I do not want to speculate at the moment. It is Russia's mystery how to respond to us then. But, of course, preparations will be made more widely according to what our economy is now, what our economic ties with the Russian Federation are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U769	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U770	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am sorry, nor is there exactly a pertinent question about this draft, but we are living at a time when we have offered assistance from the Estonian state to Ukraine in the context of armaments and there has been a situation in which the producer country or the country holding the certificate basically says that it does not agree that we are helping Ukraine with our armaments that have been obtained from them. Are such cases subject in any way to international sanctions? If we still do so without consent, what could be the result, or who will solve this situation in Estonia at all? Is this more the competence of the Ministry of Defence, or is it an external relations issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U771	Thank you for this very important question. Indeed, it is now very important for Estonia to find all these ways in which we can support Ukraine in this difficult situation. The arms assistance you have indicated is one of the possibilities through which we can see that it is possible to help increase Ukraine's deterrence and defence capabilities. And what we are now talking about, which is certainly the case with the arms assistance that has been brought to the public here, we hope that we will be able to obtain the consent of the producer countries and complete this planned action. Or, if it doesn't, you have to find an alternative. In the context of finding alternatives, of course, the Ministry of Defence has the main competence. As far as negotiations with other countries are concerned, it is also on the side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U772	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U773	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, territoriality is one of the prerequisites for implementing the law. So, let's say, the law of one country always applies in the territory of the country in which the person or natural person or legal entity is established. I would like to ask whether you are going to apply this territorial law in terms of sanctions also in respect of foreign countries. Since we are saying that the maximum fine for legal persons is up to EUR 400000, could you further clarify the motives for discretion in the application of this sanction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U774	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. Estonia, legal persons based in Estonia, financial institutions located in Estonia are still affected by this Act. And accordingly, these obligations apply precisely to Estonian institutions and companies. These are international standards, which we are talking about now. Of course, other countries have the same obligations, and they will accordingly shape this legal space in their own country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U775	Kalle Grünthal again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U776	Thank you, Mr President. But, Minister, now I have a very different view of your understanding. How is it possible that Estonia's laws on the Estonian territory apply, for example, to sanctions only to Estonian companies and foreign companies operating here are not punished, according to you, although, let's say, the same right of sanction should apply equally to everyone. Why don't you tell me about it legally? I'm a little vague about your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U777	Now that we're talking about who... Yes, thank you for your question. ... to whom this law applies, i.e. the persons with special obligations we are talking about, they are the respective providers of financial services in Estonia, as well as providers of virtual currency services, there are 118 service providers in Estonia as of 2020 under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority and 735 under the supervision of the Financial Intelligence Unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U778	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U779	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This is where you formally sidestepped the answer to the good Peter Ernitsa, which was linked to the conflict situation between Russia and Ukraine. But I'm going to ask you the law or the law, it's the law of international sanctions, and it's going to change it. Whether it has something to do with it or whether it may be affected by a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, or whether there is a conflict between Russia and us, whether there is a problem and, if so, which one.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U780	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. In a prudent way, this amendment to the law will certainly have to do with all the new possible sanctions, which are financial sanctions. Because if we change the list-based approach now and then move to a risk management approach, it will be, it will have an impact on all future sanctions. And this new system is precisely going to be more effective, so that it should be easier and more influential to control the enforcement of sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U781	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U782	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Perhaps you could briefly explain the importance of this draft in the meaning of the Ship Registers Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U783	Yeah. In terms of the Ship Registers Act, the main important aspect here is that, when registering or deleting a vessel, it must be borne in mind that neither the owner of the ship nor the charterer would be sanctioned, subject to financial sanctions. And this change is what goes into that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U784	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U785	Yeah, I have one more point to clarify. Under the amendment to § 351, it is foreseen that... This is the financial penalty of up to EUR 400000 per legal person for failure to appoint a member of the responsible management board and for failure to notify the responsible person to the Financial Supervision Authority. Isn't this punishment a little harsh? Or is that justified, the 400-thousand-dollar sanction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U786	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. This financial side is certainly always estimated, but terrorism and... let's say, the funds that move in order to... Let's say, yes, the money we're talking about freezing, it's in significantly higher amounts. So, in fact, this is precisely the right size to discourage financial institutions from carrying out prohibited activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U787	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U788	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I note that § 2 (2) of the International Sanctions Act is supplemented here by the words "including the preparation and application of risk assessment, procedures and internal control rules and due diligence measures." Perhaps you could talk a little bit about what this § 2 in general contains, why would this clarification be needed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U789	[[Silence.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U790	I'm gonna need another microphone for Aivar, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U791	Yeah, thanks! Paragraph 2 (2) is amended as regards the amendment of the International Sanctions Act. It shall include the wording "including the preparation and application of risk assessment, procedures and internal control rules and the application of due diligence measures." What does this Article 2 of itself mean, or includes, that this sentence should be added to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U792	Its main objective is that, when new obligations are imposed on persons with special obligations, they are designed to ensure internal control of those bodies in order to ensure that those activities, which would be carried out by the relevant authorities, are also internal control of those bodies which ensure that these activities are carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U793	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U794	Minister, thank you very much. With regard to the German ban on weapons being handed over to Ukraine, shouldn't Germany have been consulted on this before, to do some preliminary work? Why did we end up kind of a dead end with this? Why did we even embarrass Germany? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U795	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu for this question. This is indeed such an aspect of this story, where we have tried to help Ukraine as much as possible to increase their deterrence and defence capabilities. Looking back, perhaps some tactical aspects could have been done differently, but this goal is still exactly what has been progressed towards. And the work will continue in order for this action to be completed, as planned, so that we can help Ukraine with the aid of weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U796	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U797	Thank you. Dear Minister, There has been a lot of talk here about sanctions. One of the sanctions that the European Union has spoken about Russia has sounded like simply excluding Russia from the global payment system. We are also talking here about money movements, possible risks. Is this impact assessment at European level, as it has been done, really counterproductive effects in addition to this blocking of the economy? Is there a clear position on this at the level of the Estonian state, or is this an agreement at European level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U798	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this important question. First of all, of course, I hope that diplomatic efforts will help to prevent this military conflict, the new military conflict, in such a way that there is no need to impose these sanctions. However, when we talk about this possible scenario, what sanctions and exactly how, in this respect, the European Member States have the understanding that we are not commenting publicly on them at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U799	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U800	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Here, before Paul asked for Puustusmaa, you started the answer from the fact that the good Riigikogu. In fact, Paul is a good colleague and I mostly agree with him, but he does not represent the entire Riigikogu, but mostly himself. But I have a question about § 81, where there is a proposal to designate a natural or legal person as subject to an international sanction. We had a rather active debate here some time ago in the context of whistleblowers and how they will be promoted after that and what sanctions or problems await them. The question I have is, who and by whom here can be both a natural and a legal person, who can become subject to a sanction, under which and under what conditions he must meet, and what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U801	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. When we are talking here about these financial sanctions, in particular, legal or natural persons may be included in this list of sanctions, either through the adoption of the relevant resolution by the United Nations Security Council or by the European Union, for example. In other words, one or the other organisation has issued sanctions for individuals or individuals who want to contribute to international peace and security or to the protection of human rights. Whether this sanction is a financial sanction or a trade sanction, we are talking about a financial sanction, it is now subject to an amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U802	And now we've run out of questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. We can go to the co-report. I call on Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U803	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Before this exciting foreign policy debate, the Foreign Minister introduced the content of draft 492, so perhaps I will not stop at it for a very long time. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, this draft was held in January, 15 and 20 and the debate took place at the first meeting, 11 January. In addition to the members of the Commission, Mr Erki Kodar, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Sören Meius, Adviser to the Financial Information Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in this meeting. The members of the Commission were interested in two issues. Firstly, we discussed more broadly the evaluation of Moneyval, which, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned, will take place in March. This bill is one of those that is trying to solve some open questions about Estonian legislation in relation to its assessment. The second question was on additional work and IT developments. However, the debate concluded that there could be a very high additional burden on the parties, as they deal with similar issues on a daily basis. In the second session, we tried to match our schedules, and we came to the conclusion that the bill was in the hall today, that the waitress was me. At our first session, we had decided that the first reading could be completed. These decisions were consensual. And by 3 February, we also asked for the views of market participants. We also asked for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And the deadline for amendments was ten days. And so it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U804	But there are questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U805	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Good waitress! The same question I asked the Minister: § 81. Here is a proposal in the physical context of the legal person subject to the sanction. I tried to understand who and under what conditions it would be possible to name, and the minister began to talk about how the United Nations resolution should be. But in this bill, I read it, and it makes sense that in Estonia we put these things into the law still because of what we do and why we do it ourselves. And it says here that the State Department will present it there if necessary. What is it about where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explains, or whether Estonia is aware of the reason why we amend this law? Are there some persons that need to be included in the list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U806	Thank you. We're pretty deep in the board. But if I answer, if I understand the question correctly, in which I am not sure, the persons on that list will be so that there is such a general database, which is also used by Estonia. If Estonia adds someone to sanctions, this information will also be received by our foreign partners, and so it goes that today financial institutions must also follow this list. And I guess that list, those names aren't mentioned in the law. It is such a general system that has been in use for years. And usually these names do not come from Estonia on that list, they are international. Estonia is a relatively small country. In terms of population, I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U807	Thank you very much. No further questions. Now we can open negotiations. Now, don't all go at once. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 492 be terminated and the first reading is completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. this year. The eighth item has also been examined today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U808	On the ninth item, the draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on Employment Capacity Support 500 SE. This is the first reading and the rapporteur is Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good evening! In today's session, there is a draft law amending the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act before you, in which we wish to extend in 2022 the reliefs that have already been introduced in the past two years. Originally, the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions was amended in April 2020 when the Honourable Riigikogu dealt with the state's additional budget for 2020, in other words, the measures for the spread of the corona virus caused by COVID disease. Within this framework, a number of restrictions related to the granting of creative support were alleviated in order to allow freelance creators who have lost their income to receive support and to ensure access to healthcare for these people as well. Under the conditions of the pandemic, it is extremely important that all people in Estonia, regardless of their chosen careers, are able to contact a doctor or hospital for help. As the pandemic did not show signs of subsidion, there was a logical need to extend mitigation measures. And my predecessor, Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, presented to the Riigikogu on 5 April last year a draft amendment to the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions, which had also been approved by respected MPs. Thank you very much for these earlier decisions. Today, too, we are in a situation where, as a result of a pandemic, some creative people have limited access to work and income. The difficult times are, of course, throughout the cultural sphere, but the greatest risk is those who may not have access to the healthcare system when they need it most. In order to resolve this concern, we ask for Parliament's consent and we wish to extend the reliefs previously approved and introduced this year as well. I would like to remind you of the content of the reliefs that Parliament has previously approved twice. Firstly, the main aspect of the abolition of the mandatory two-year waiting period for the application for creative support. Upon the entry into force of the amendment, a person who lost his or her income could also apply for support if he or she had also done so in 20 and 21. The allowance is granted for a period of six months, with a minimum wage of 654 euros being paid in Estonia. Tax receipts are also guaranteed, which provide access, figuratively speaking, to the services of the Health Insurance Fund, which is an important concern for people in this area. The second important relief concerns the amount of the promised income. In the past, if it was half the minimum wage, it would now be permitted to earn a monthly income of one minimum wage. Thus, the creator will be able to earn a single minimum wage without fear of losing state support during the period when he or she is in a difficult time. Both reliefs would be valid, according to our offer, until the end of this year. As a third relief, which is different from those previously applied, we would introduce an exception for those who have received income in the last three years, either in military service or in parental leave. In 2021, when we had to prove to the Ministry of Culture that he was an active creative person and to provide publicly available works to confirm this, in the case of a person who was not part of the Creative Union, there are now exceptions to this requirement for those who had to focus on other vital responsibilities. As I mentioned earlier, deal with national defence issues or take care of a small child in my activities. It is natural that creative work may not be able to be dealt with during such a special period and should not be an obstacle to obtaining the creative support mentioned in this draft. If the honourable Riigikogu supports our draft, we can implement this package of measures from the spring of this year and until the end of the calendar year. We have the money for this measure in the budget, we are not asking for it further, the amount is slightly more than EUR 1.7 million. In order for subsidies to reach those in need, we need urgent processing. At this point, I would like to thank the colleagues of the Government of the Republic and the honourable Committee on Culture, with whom we have already discussed this issue once. Thank you for your contentful questions and for your helpful cooperation. Mr President of the sitting and honourable Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer the questions you're clarifying.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U810	Thank you. The questions are really and first Signe Stone. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U811	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Twice, in 2020 and 2021, the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act has been supplemented by temporary amendments to alleviate the conditions for obtaining creative support. My question is whether the Ministry of Culture plans to update the law as a whole. And secondly, is it next year, I'm afraid that this need for grants will persist, is there plans to increase the amount of creative support in the budget of the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U812	Thank you very much. I'll start at the back. Yes, we can review these amounts in the process of drawing up the state budget and assess this situation then. But in coming to the first part of your question, yes, indeed, we are going to review the legislation on the subject of artists and creative associations with fresh eyes. This is also the moment that we asked for important representative organisations and people in the field to attend the first meeting of the so-called intention to develop in order to let them know that this process is what we intend to do, to put in place those concerns that would require changes in the future, and we should probably move on with it today, in our opinion, until the end of this year. The process is long, it should involve a wide range of people who work in the field. And your excellent ministerial experience certainly confirms that the field has certainly changed over time. This law actually applies since 2005, if I remember correctly. And, of course, the environment around us has changed, and we need to review this law freshly, and then we will come to the honourable Parliament to get your judgment and approval on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U813	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U814	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you will continue the success story that was carried out by the previous government and by our party as minister. I would ask a little bit to clarify that the creative person who is those persons who may still receive this support, which criteria he should meet. Maybe you could talk it out for a little while. Is it enough for me to do one photo exhibition a year, write a musical story every month? Maybe this is a pretty good opportunity for pensioners to earn extra. What are the criteria? Because if I read this bill, maybe it's my fault that I'm not so obsessed with it, but why don't you open it up? There's gonna be an election in the spring. Perhaps some members of the Riigikogu also need to engage more in creative activities. But I will say once again that I really support the support of creative people, that that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U815	Thank you very much, Mr. Chef. Indeed, if you are engaged in creation, I believe that we would all be delighted. But when we come to the creatives, they're the creators who belong to a creative union or are freelance creatives. Indeed, their criterion is that they must have been in the past, for example, in three years either painting a beautiful picture, creating a piece of sound and making it publicly available. And then he would basically qualify for that specific support. It is important to remember here that he must not have any other income. So I guess all the people who do creative work wouldn't qualify here either. The question is, however, that it is a measure of helping people, not a matter of getting a daily income. Indeed, in the case of a creative person, the criterion is that he or she is not in the public service, does not work on a contract of employment, is not, for example, a member of the board of directors in a legal person and, through that, does not receive, for example, the remuneration of a member of the board of directors. So that's how it's possible to define the circle that might belong here. Now speaking of creatives in a somewhat wider sense. Not long ago, a study was carried out by Praxis in this area. We should have 10,200 creative people in Estonia on the freelance side. This circle of people is quite wide in itself, and I believe that many of us are delighted with their art.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U816	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U817	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is also proposed that this draft should enter into force retroactively from 1 January 2022. And they even say that it would have a certain positive effect. However, the negative effect is, I quote, 'for the months that a person receives the creative grant afterwards, he has not received health insurance and these months are going to disappear'. Honestly, I don't get it. How those months go missing when a person is, well, imagine, he's currently without health insurance because he doesn't have a job. And now, in February, he gets this treatment retroactively, let's say, this support, how will he be compensated for health insurance at this point, or how does it help a person? That's what I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U818	Thank you. I'm trying to explain it to you. If we were to apply this measure in such a way that, retroactively, the person really could get the cash currency, it would be able to pay his bills, buy food, anything, but the lack of the most important confidence in relations with the creative people today, they will describe, figuratively speaking, the health insurance card. What you mentioned. And it's a bit difficult to apply this retroactive part of the benefits of the health insurance fund, so you can't go to a doctor last week. However, if we were to apply this support to artists, they would receive income, they would pay the necessary taxes, they would be entitled to health insurance services, then from here on out, for example, they would also be able to receive sickness insurance within six months of receiving this benefit. But today at the end of the month, for example, to think about going back to the doctor, becoming a member of the Health Insurance Fund, we have appreciated that this is not possible and reasonable. It doesn't work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U819	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U820	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned this circle of individuals, the circle of artists, over 10,000 people. How many people really need this help? And how does this work anyway? You also mentioned briefly, but is it digitally, or in what way is it even achieved that this decision will fall? And how long is this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U821	Thank you. This support can be paid to artists by recognised creative associations. Perhaps they are the Ministry's partner on this particular issue and this application takes place through them. Speaking of numeral languages, we do indeed have a size of 10200 freelance creative people. We have assessed that a very broad range of 5,000 could be involved in this measure, because we have a great deal and I dare say that the majority of freelance creative people who are perfectly able to make their own profits and do not need this help. To illustrate: last year, this measure, which was confirmed by the Riigikogu, was used only by 2,000 people in the order of magnitude. So, actually, this number is over 10,000, but we also have very excellent creative people, in economic terms, and if, due to their turbulence and difficult situations, this moment where they cannot make a profit, it is an opportunity to provide them with the sense of security and other essential guarantees that are needed in difficult times. But mostly it can be said that people can cope with their own economic security in current matters. I'll just give you an example. Before the COVID crisis, this budget was also of a size of EUR one and a half million in the budget, and those in need were around 100 people. In fact, this is a crisis measure. We hope that at some point difficult times will come to an end and that we will not have to take such measures; people will manage themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U822	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U823	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This is certainly a very good draft. But I'm just gonna blow up the idea that with this bill, we're gonna extend the social protection of artists by one year to level out the difficult socio-economic conditions caused by the corona restrictions. However, since we are now in a completely new situation where the upcoming heroes will obviously lead to very difficult socio-economic conditions in the future, high energy prices and the rise in other prices will continue to put the creative people in a very difficult position, perhaps the Ministry of Culture would consider either extending the period of payment of these subsidies further or making it a permanent one. Would such a thing be conceivable?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U824	Thank you. This, of course, can be decided by honourable members of the Riigikogu, but I do not see today that it should be longer than until the end of this year. When you mentioned here that people's costs are increasing, in fact, this concern that you have highlighted has also crossed our minds during the drafting of this bill. If, in the past, the freelance creative person who applies for this allowance was able to earn half the minimum wage himself, then we have provided that he may also earn one minimum wage. This would mean that it would not be interrupted during this period of support. People's expenditure is increasing, this is an inevitable fact today, and we want people to remain active themselves and to continue to take advantage of the opportunity to participate in the labour market, to earn a profit, but obviously it may not always be enough to achieve this threshold of their taxes, where sickness insurance applies and, of course, to serve their daily expenses. But you and I are concerned about common spending. At the moment, however, we are hoping that this is a temporary measure that could put an end to the need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U825	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U826	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would like to emphasise once again that a very important draft is in order to alleviate creative subsidies for freelance artists. Now, if this is how it works for the third year, have we, after all, thought through the fact that all these years, these people would still receive health insurance so that there would not be a gap? We are discussing this today, in January, and I think last year's support ended with butter. In the meantime, do they have a health certificate, a health insurance certificate, or a health insurance certificate? It is very important for people to keep health insurance. It is clear that in difficult times, the state must come to the aid and culture is a very important foundation for Estonianism.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U827	Thank you. Yes, indeed, if a person ends his or her social security contributions, there will be health insurance for some time, but not for a long time. To bring here what the legislative environment could be like for our people who sometimes need this support, just as I mentioned to Mrs Signe Kivi, we have legislative changes planned today, the intention to develop is to negotiate with important partners in the sector. So we will certainly think about this more broadly. And it is actually very clear from the point of view of social guarantees, it is also figuratively the health insurance card, the health insurance. There, we have considered the various measures ourselves, which could provide people with security in their day-to-day activities. But I believe that the various representative organisations also join their ideas here, and the honourable members of the Riigikogu, who are more interested in this area and can accompany them with good advice in the process, are very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U828	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U829	Good manager! Good waitress! No 10200 freelance artists. How many of them don't have a health insurance card?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U830	Thank you. I daresay most of them still do. As I mentioned, the fact that the creative person is a freelancer does not mean that he is automatically in a position to receive benefits that we should come to his aid. Most freelancers certainly manage their daily expenses and daily incomes. For example, they are not in any theater's solitary writing, a permanent group, but they act and carry on as freelancers. And that doesn't mean that if you're a freelancer, your income is low. Absolutely not. But, of course, there are also people in this target group who maybe for a reason or another have temporarily lost their income. Let us think, for example, that if at the moment the production of films is somewhat more modest and an actor who otherwise plays great roles in the films we love has long been without work and income, then of course, we, I believe, have an important responsibility to carry these people through difficult times so that when the movies are being made again, it is possible for him to participate in them. But between freelance and poverty, I certainly would not dare to draw and rather try to convince others that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U831	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U832	Thank you very much, Mr President. My second question comes from the Estonian Writers' Union and, in fact, from their concern, where they say that in the case of several competitions now where prizes are paid from cultural capital, prize money, they have to give up, because otherwise they would not receive this support again, which in turn is linked to health insurance. And the answer is, yes, there is nothing to do that you have to give up because we are going to revise this law as a whole someday in the future. And we understand the problem, but we're not gonna help. Perhaps it would be wise here now if we changed this law, improved it, taken into account their concerns and found a solution? And let me also say, on the previous question, that, in fact, this proposal to implement from 1 January has also made the creative alliances themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U833	Yes, indeed, the author's association's proposal in this regard is also included in the annex to the draft explanatory memorandum, but indeed with this measure, we are softening the loss of income that would guarantee them good livelihoods, but also these bonuses, prizes, and this money can, in essence, be included in the amount of income that can guarantee their daily needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U834	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U835	Thank you. I think this is a very correct point, Minister, that creative people versus poverty must not be addressed in this category. You can often get the impression in these discussions that this is the kind of... that you need to help from time to time, but in fact they provide very important added value for Estonian society and culture. My question, however, is that you raise it from half the minimum wage to half the minimum wage. I understand that life has shown that they still want to make money. But if it happens now that more than one minimum wage is earned, even if it is more than EUR 50, what will happen to this applicant? Is there a repayment obligation or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U836	Thank you. Thank you also for the addition and the pronouncement. And to confirm that there is really no equality between artists and the bad economic situation, it is a matter of temporary difficulties. Now what happens to the creative person who has been decided to pay this specific grant. Yes, indeed, he is able to earn one minimum wage for the purposes of this draft. It still keeps people active in the labour market. After all, they certainly want to take care of themselves, and the person still wants to take care of himself. But in that case, if he earns a premium higher than that minimum, i.e. the payments to him are higher, the specific measure for him will simply stop. Maybe it'll stop. Yeah, let's say the measure ends for him. The six-month period for which it has been decided will not continue. There will be no direct repayment obligation, but once it has settled its income, it will no longer be in need of assistance for the purposes of this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U837	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U838	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the previous government, when we applied the media, we had put it in three-year cuts and we wanted to put it in education, but very many have also become creative people without education. But I'll give you an example: once he's finished the stage art drill, but in that time he hasn't gotten it, because we've had the corona, he doesn't really have a job to show, but he's a qualified actor. Can we make it a condition for three years or an education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U839	Thank you. I understand the point of your question. And I can say that I do not consider this component of education to be too important in this particular draft. I believe that if we started discussing and looking together for those beloved actors or artists who have no professional education, we would find quite a number of them. The question about this time frame, then also some people who may not have completed their education in the past and have not made a professional choice in some beautiful art, but do a great painting or write an excellent composition, and if they have presented it publicly, that is the criterion that they qualify for this grant. The second option of qualification, which does not concern the time frame, is membership of the Creative Union. We trust that these organisations, once they have accepted someone as a member of their creative union, are convinced that a particular person is also a creative person. And the creative associations recognised as important partners for us, for their membership, do not need to prove this time figure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U840	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U841	Good President and Minister. I'm only asking you one thing. 10,200 freelancers, and you told me that most of them do. But what does most people mean? In the meantime, I made a few calls to some of my artists' friends, some of them haven't spoken in a while, and I asked them, "What would they ask, about this hospital?" They both said it was a very big problem and that it wouldn't be possible... Well, first of all, how much is this not majority of the 10,200? There could be some kind of assessment in the ministry. And would it be a very great loss if the Ministry of Culture would ensure that most or all of these freelancers at least receive this health insurance card?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U842	I can say, indeed, that Praxis estimates 10200 freelance creative people to be delivered to us in Estonia. In the course of the draft, we have seen this need in the order of 5000. If we take practically last year's example, this support was needed by 2 000 people, i.e. my simple mathematics says that 10200 minus 2 000 people who have needed this support are therefore over 8 000 people for whom this issue is not so topical that they should be covered by the health insurance fund by applying for this allowance. This means, in other words, that a larger number, as I said, and I am still sure of this calculation, will benefit from various professional activities on which social tax has been paid, which, if paid to a certain extent, guarantees their health insurance. Perhaps I will stick to the view that most of our freelance artists do not need this measure. But as a society, I believe it is our duty to carry through crises in difficult times those people who cannot cope with temporary difficulties. But I assure you of your good friends' concern, which is also said by other people, that when we look at the topic of freelance artists in a broader perspective, health insurance and health insurance funds, social guarantees, are the ones that are most concerned. Whether they are a current problem for a particular person at the moment, or a so-called uncertainty about the future, that what happens when I can no longer guarantee a stable income for myself, yes, of course, is the issue with which we must certainly keep our focus in the process of updating the LLS, that is, this particular creative person and creative union law. And I also ask for the contributions of good members of the Riigikogu to this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U843	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U844	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to this subject of education. We are not thinking here of people who have already proven themselves and who are not professionally educated, but rather of young people who have graduated from their school for an exhibition in 2019 and who, under conditions that are simply independent of him, have not even been able to try their main work, whether as an actor, as a film operator, as a theatre artist, whatever. He simply has not been able to do so and has nothing more to show than his certificate of competency which he has obtained. He has also not been accepted into any alliances because he has not been able to do any of his work. Let's talk about young people. What is their prospect in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U845	Thank you. Yes, indeed, if they do not belong to any recognized creative alliances, that assumption is not fulfilled in the same way, but there is another assumption for applying for and receiving this support. And that second assumption is that in the past, you've created something and made your work publicly available. And I believe that even those young people who have just come from school have shown some of their work during their studies, or maybe maybe even studying, by going to study graphic design, painting, for example, by going to study composers, different musical disciplines, of course, they have done something before. It is likely that their first creative work will not be waiting for a diploma. He has probably created something in the past, whether or not he has taken a beautiful guash picture for one of A4; he has made it publicly available on the Internet; this criterion is therefore guaranteed; and he is justified in the meaning of this draft to ask for this support. And I can also say here that, in fact, in this difficult time, it has also been possible to engage in creative work, whether or not to create forms of art, or to create compositions. Those that have not assumed people's contacts and what has also been possible to do, let's say, with pride in loneliness.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U846	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U847	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On that occasion, when it was being dealt with, I was also honoured to be a part-eyed listener in the Committee on Culture, and at that time a distribution plan was proposed for 50% of the associations and 50% of the so-called freelancers. Personally, I am convinced that all good creators could organize and belong to associations, associations, but others who have not considered it important at this point would it seem to you that perhaps two thirds of organized people and one third of those who are so free that they do not want to organise? It would make sense if we valued education and organized people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U848	Thank you. Indeed, art is free, and sometimes an artist may not want to belong to an organization. Of course, it's always nice for you to be in a common creative union with your creative partners. But indeed, today the idea is also that most of these resources are distributed to those in need through creative associations, and some very small part is also what can be applied for through the Ministry of Culture. But we're assuming that this focus is still recognized by the creative alliances.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U849	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U850	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still gonna ask you again about this education. If a person has been accepted through various tests or exams, he or she has completed an education but has not been able to do his or her main job, it can be equated to drawing a guacheshot or doing a small mono performance with your mobile phone and then you have the right to apply for this support. Why is it that education is for you or not for you, but it is somehow not so significant and important and it is a sign of the way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U851	Thank you. For us, human creative activity is still a prerequisite here. And if this creative activity has gained so much recognition that man has been accepted as a member of the Creative Union, then it is the same basis for us. But the other way around, if he doesn't have an education, he just has a desire, he's active, he wants to express himself and he's made it available to others, then yes, indeed, within the framework of this bill we have not provided for it to be restrictive in favour that he must necessarily have a professional education. If I understood you correctly on the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U852	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the co-report. The co-rapporteur is Marko Šorin, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U853	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Good guys in the hall! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Culture at its meeting on 18 January, where Minister Terik and his advisers gave us a similar overview of the purpose of the draft. The Minister pointed out the objective of the draft to support the creative sector during the ongoing crisis. I will not address all the questions that have been put to it, but I will bring some of the nuances, some of which have already been addressed in this Chamber. One that certainly extended the subject was Üllar Saaremäe's question about a situation where a young person, for example, has graduated from the theater school just before the period of the corona crisis and has not been able to do his job. And since he hasn't worked in any professional theatre, he can't be part of any creative alliance. The minister's answer was quite similar to that heard in this Chamber, and he replied that if a creative person outside the Creative Union had not had the opportunity to engage in creative work during the crisis and even put it online, he would be in an awkward situation. At the same time, in times of crisis, there is an opportunity to create and bring out our creations. It is sufficient to make the work publicly available on the Internet. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked whether the amount of aid for relief had increased compared to previous periods. The Minister pointed out that no additional money was planned in the current draft with an additional budget. However, in the pre-crisis period, the planned budget expenditure was one-and-a-half million, and today it is 1.75 million. Heidy Purga also wanted to expand the example put forward by Üllar Saaremäe a little and wondered whether the sharing of crisis support measures had somehow changed the behaviour of artists. Perhaps the so-called grey-area artists have emerged in a cultural context. The advisor who accompanied the Minister replied that he was responding on the basis of his own assessments, but he claims, however, that no one had begun to make any kind of work in order to qualify for the grant. However, the awareness of creative people has grown. Jaak Valge referred to the proposal that a person who is 16 or more years old and who has not yet reached retirement age qualifies for creative support. White asked whether this was not age discrimination and how much could be added if the age of the old age were to be excluded. The Minister replied that the limitation to the age of 16 is linked to the creation of a contractual relationship. The Minister agreed that the national pension rate was lower than the rate of pay from which the draft was based and said that the point of reference of Jaak White was a new point of view for him. At the same time, the adviser added that all the exclusions in the draft were made for the original purpose of the law, which was to guarantee the insurance of the health insurance fund on several occasions. Children and pensioners are aware that this is guaranteed. The Councillor said that the issue would also be included as one of the topics in the project's intention to develop a process to assess its impact and need. Then, I will skip a few questions, which were more specific to what the Minister referred to in his presentation at the beginning. Eduard Odines, member of the Committee on Culture, referred to § 2 of the Bill, which amends the Act on Disability and corrects the error in the Act. Since April last year, those persons who received creative support from the Ministry of Culture have not been entitled to the capacity allowance for work. At the same time, those who received creative support from the creative associations remained entitled to disability benefit. Odines asked what the right to disability benefit is for those artists who have received creative support from the Ministry of Culture during the year and whether it will enter into force afterwards. Here the representatives of the Ministry stated that last year this issue was resolved in agreement with the unemployment fund and that applicants did not find it an obstacle. This situation was clarified and the interpretation is that other creative support provided by the Creative Union may be paid by the Ministry of Culture. As soon as possible, this matter must be corrected by law. No further questions were asked in the Committee on Culture, on which Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee, pointed out that this was an urgent draft, as the Minister noted in his speech, and proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at just less than 10 working days, i.e. seven working days. Then Aadu proposed to the Commission that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 26 January this year, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 4 February this year, to appoint me as the representative of the lead committee. All these proposals were subject to consensus by the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U854	Thank you very much. I don't see any questions. Then we can go to the negotiations. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U855	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! All of us who are still watching us through the Internet despite this late hour, and especially the people who are personally affected by this bill of amendment, that is to say, all the creative people who, according to the Ministry of Culture, are over 10,000! It is very important that we deal with this draft amendment right now, right at the beginning of the year, because it is seriously urgent. In 2020 and 2021, the temporary changes introduced by the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act in relation to corona would end without this draft and, at a time when we are subject to all the restrictions relating to corona, the creative people would be deprived of the support and assistance they have enjoyed up to now in this two year period. We can, of course, argue whether or not these corona restrictions are justified in this form at all. Perhaps, in view of the fact that most people have either been vaccinated or have suffered from corona and, globally, more and more evidence-based information is needed that omicron strain infection and inflamation are no longer dangerous enough to comply with the pandemic formulation, to give up the coronal restrictions at all. This would open the whole playground for self-realization by creative people and all sectors where creative people can exercise themselves and earn a decent living without the need for support. Unfortunately, we are now seeing that the current government is inflexible in this respect. Even rapid tests, with which the whole population can safely visit concerts, exhibitions, theatres, operas and contribute to the awakening of creative industries and to the self-realization and incomes of creative people, even the government does not want to allow them to do so. But as they say, better half an egg than an empty shell. The expected target group of this law is 5000 creative people and the planned budget expenditure is EUR 1 million and EUR 750000. It is particularly important that, in addition to this financial support, creativity is also covered by health insurance, which is invaluable to all beneficiaries, especially at the moment when different outbreaks affect the entire population. Of course, when we look at the fact that, alongside the crisis of the Corona restrictions, we are now also very forceful in the energy crisis, where the price of electricity, indoor heating, motor fuels and gas has risen enormously, and the resulting price role is still gaining momentum for essential goods, food stores and, in fact, all over the place, and the price of electricity alone has led almost half the population to stand in the process of social benefits, we cannot be quite certain whether 5 000 people in need of support and requesting creative people are no longer a relevant forecast and whether the budgetary cost allocated under this bill is still sufficient. Unfortunately, if all these political constraints continue on the way we all operate in social, economic and cultural life, I can see that even those freelance creative work people, musicians, artists, writers and actors who have so far fed themselves and their families and have not had to apply for support, when high energy prices eat up their own revenues, as well as the revenues of their venues, exhibition sites, galleries and clubs, which simply close their doors, many freelance creative people will have no choice but to try to qualify for the grants proposed by the Ministry of Culture in the framework of this bill. I repeat here once again that this is a very good and very welcome draft. The Estonian Conservative People's Party will definitely support this through the entire process. However, on the other hand, I call on the government, the good colleagues from the Riigikogu and the general public to support the idea that we should give up all the corona restrictions as soon as possible. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U856	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U857	That we should give up all the restrictions on the corona as soon as possible and should give up, above all, the national corona passport system, which no longer has any effect, but has caused deep wounds to our sense of unity, which destroys our business, creative industries, culture and the mental health of our people as well. These support measures in this form are, after all, only for this year. But in addition to grants, we give creative people back their real life, pulsating cultural life exhibitions, performances and, most importantly, the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U858	Thanks, no more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 517 be completed and the first reading is completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 4 February at 5 p.m. 00. That concludes the ninth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U859	However, we will proceed nicely to the 10th, which is the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Securities Markets and related amendments to other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-26_U860	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for this opportunity to present two important drafts to you today at a late hour. The first of these is the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and other laws. This draft submitted to you will change, as the name suggests, particularly the Securities Market Act, but also other financial sector legislation. All amendments relate to the transposition and implementation of EU legislation. Firstly, the draft amends the management and capital requirements of investment firms. Currently investment firms are generally subject to similar management and capital requirements to banks. However, they are not sufficiently flexible and risk-sensitive to investment firms. So now there is a proposal to change the requirements so that they are more proportionate to investment firms. More specifically, according to the draft, investment firms are divided into three different categories on the basis of the size of the assets: large, medium and small. And depending on the category of investment firm that falls into, it will be subject to the corresponding requirements. For the smallest investment firms, the regulatory burden is reduced quite significantly. And it has to be said that investment firms established in Estonia are mostly in the middle category, some of them probably also in the category of small investment firms. Among other things, the initial capital requirements of investment firms will be amended. For example, the initial capital requirement is reduced for investment firms that mediate offers of securities or manage the assets of private clients. Their capital requirement is reduced from EUR 125000 to EUR 75000. In addition, if the investment firm organises an alternative exchange itself, the capital requirement will fall significantly from EUR 730000 to EUR 150000. However, if the investment firm acts as a broker or advises investors, the corresponding capital requirement will slightly increase from 50000 to EUR 75000. In addition, the conditions for the payment of the remuneration of members of the management board of investment firms and other executives and, in particular, the conditions for the payment of performance fees are amended. According to the draft, the payment of performance fees must take more account of the risks associated with a particular manager in an investment firm and of the outcome of his work over a longer period of time, i.e. simplified: no performance fee can be paid by a loss-making investment firm. In addition, this draft provides for additional powers for the Financial Supervision Authority to require investment firms to hold additional capital and liquid funds. This is the case where supervision has shown that risks are higher than normal for the investment firm concerned. The second part of the amendments concerns the simplification of the provision of investment services. These changes are originally driven by the situation caused by the corona crisis. More broadly, the aim is to reduce the regulatory burden on banks and other investment service providers so that they can re-allocation resources and continue to ensure funding for the real economy. This amendment reduces requirements in particular in cases where services are provided to professional investors. Perhaps the obligation to provide information will be reduced, provided that professional investors themselves are able to better analyse and retrieve information about investments. At the same time, when providing investment services to retail investors, the requirements remain essentially as stringent as they have been. The third amendment relates to the increase of the additional ceiling for the reimbursement of deposits by the State guarantee scheme, by the Guarantee Fund. If, at present, the overall compensation rate for each depositor is up to EUR 100000 per bank and, in addition, the Guarantee Fund has to provide additional cash of EUR 70000 if a person has recently sold residential property and this money has recently been received into his account, i.e. the maximum deposit compensation rate is currently EUR 170000. It now increases the ceiling for this additional compensation from EUR 70000 to EUR 100000 and provides that it covers not only real estate sales but also funds received as a result of other social events. For example, if the account receives amounts due in connection with redundancy or also because of an insurance benefit. So in future, the maximum amount of compensation will be EUR 200000, now, as has been said, EUR 170000, hereinafter EUR 200000, EUR 100000 + EUR 100000. Good Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
