ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Good afternoon. Let's start the 19th January briefing. Today's Question Time includes Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister of the Environment Erki Savisaar. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U2	32 members of the Riigikogu registered, 69 are missing. Let's start today's briefing. We have 12 issues registered at the moment. And I have a request, dear colleagues, that we agree on this: there is one additional question about each question from the one who has registered the question, and one additional question from the Chamber. As usual, there are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U3	The first question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas, the member of the Government of the Republic, the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is Mali's mission. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U4	Thank you. Prime Minister! Estonia participates in an operation in Mali, three operations with nearly 300 members of the Defence Forces. The Minister of Defence said in September that if Russian mercenaries, Wagner's mercenaries, arrive there, Estonia will leave because we cannot be on the same side of the front line as the Putin army. Today, the situation is that the Swedes are already coming out of there, the Wagner mercenaries are inside, training Malian troops, and we are through it as if allies with Putin Russia to ensure their ambitions in the African jungles. The Secretary of Defense has claimed that we are not coming out of there. But the Secretary of Defense doesn't decide these things, in fact, the government decides to participate in a particular military operation. Have you discussed this? This situation is actually absolutely absurd, especially in today's situation, isn't it? There are no substantiated arguments to maintain our presence there. And most strangely, our Minister of Defence already claims on our Riigikogu committees as if there were no Russian mercenaries there, and, well, in short, these stories are getting more and more bizarre every day. As head of the government, you who should lead this decision in the government, please explain how we have come into this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U6	Thank you. Europe's security is also directly linked to what is happening in Mali, and it has been a very good decision that we have gone there with our allies, France. France, in turn, has come here to ensure our security. Russia's interest is at every step to divide the allies, to create tensions between us, and if the price is to send mercenaries and immediately the allies leave or run apart, it is certainly in the interests of Russia, but it is not in the interests of European security as a whole. The Swedes' departure was planned in advance and known in advance, that was already known to us, that was no news. So that was not surprising in this respect. Of course, we are closely following the situation in Mali, and our troops are not fighting with Wagner in any way or alongside Wagner. We certainly do not support Putinin's steps or Russia's activities in Mali, but we are there with our allies, and we will continue this mission with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U7	[[Henn Põllaas starts a new question, but his microphone isn't in.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U8	Thank you. I did not get the answer to how we could be on the same side of the frontline with Russian mercenaries and Putin's private army, to support a military junta in Mali, and how it contributes to European security, it is very incomprehensible. But today you come to us with a political statement on security, and if it is as empty as yesterday's energy issue, it doesn't make much sense. But surely our security is very much based on our own defence capabilities and contributions and on our defence budget. In Mali, this military junta pays Wagner $10 million a month. That's a lot of money. And we're on the same boat as Wagner, and on the contrary, we're spending ourselves. How much money does Estonia spend on Mali's missions? And what I'm interested in is that years of age, when we compare to Wagner, 120 million, of course, our spending isn't that high. But what I'm still interested in is that this money is out of developing our own defence capabilities, ensuring our own security. And with this we know that we have a lot of power gaps and that filling them is going to be smaller and harder. So, actually, there's this kind of financial side right here. Please open it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U10	Thank you. Firstly, you say that you do not understand what European security has to do with what is happening in Mali. Very simply, your own party is very concerned about the migratory pressure coming from Africa, and if there are African countries when these countries do not work, if people cannot live there, if there is a constant war situation, then it is clear that people do not want to live in such a place and this migration pressure is increasing. So, in fact, our interest is that there should also be order in the African countries and no pressure on Europe, first of all. Secondly, you asked about specific amounts, then I will certainly not publish these amounts to you in this Riigikogu speech chair, and I do not have these amounts with me either. So these specific questions can be asked in writing, and then the relevant ones can answer them in concrete terms. Now, you're criticising participation in missions, but I disagree with you because participating in missions gives something to our soldiers that they don't get from elsewhere, and it's actually very substantive practical training. This, too, will strengthen our security here in Estonia if we have soldiers who are used to acting in a real conflict situation. So this is actually what we get out of it. In addition, we get that one of the principles of Estonian foreign policy has been that it has never been alone again. And when we act with our allies, we help these allies when they need help, and we know that allies come to our aid in collective defence when we need this help. And, for example, this security situation in Europe today is a direct concern for us, it is my statement today precisely because I feel that this anxiety is not being understood clearly enough. And that is why we need to take further steps to protect our security. And it's all part of our defense, and it's all part of our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U11	A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U12	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to make a note to the Prime Minister that there is no need to lie here in the Riigikogu chair. I have not said half a word that I do not understand that what is happening in Africa is related to European security; I have not criticised half a word that Estonia is participating in missions. I specifically talked about Mali, I specifically said that Estonia is with Putini Wagner's mercenaries who are accused of serious crimes against humanity and crime all over the world, we are allies because we support the same military junta in Mali, and I talked about it, but the Prime Minister is just spinning, whistling and lying. Please make a note of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U13	Thank you. You've been able to put your mind down on this procedural issue, but I'm certainly not going to appreciate who's spinning around here or not. But one thing I'm asking for from both of us, from our side and from the government, is respect anyway, so let's move on from here. Additional question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U14	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! There were two main arguments about why Estonia should participate in Mali's mission, missions. One is that we need to support our NATO allies, the other is that stability in Africa is in the interests of our security. Firstly, neither of these objectives is within the limits given by the Riigikogu with its mandate to go on these missions. These objectives go beyond these limits and extend these objectives or extend the mandate granted by the Riigikogu, neither you nor the Minister of Defence have the right to. Now that you claim that we are fundamentally opposed to all foreign missions, it is wrong, we are opposed to these missions, which are contrary to Estonia's security interests and Estonia's values. Now to these two arguments. Have the Malian regimes maintained stability and peace in their country during the period of Estonia's participation in the missions? Of course not. It is these regimes, and their constant change, that violent coups have led this country into chaos. In addition, they are suppressing the independence efforts of the northern desert peoples. If we wanted peace and stability there, we should put pressure on the Malian state so that these nations can have their freedom. Secondly, as far as our NATO allies are concerned, if France comes to our aid on the basis of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, we must participate in the post-colonial campaigns in France, which have absolutely nothing to do with NATO and nor with France's own security. France has not been attacked, then it was simply the exploitation of Estonia and our Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U15	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U16	Thank you. Naturally, the mission of Mali will be carried out by the Riigikogu within the framework of this mandate. There's no way he's going beyond that, and there's no doubt about it. These things that I pointed out as goals could be what you support. The same thing Henn Põllaas said that I misunderstood him as if he did not support it and did not understand the links between the stability of Europe's security in Africa. That this is what you have to look at as a big picture. I'm asking you, aren't you interested in actually having some stability there? Now Estonian soldiers have been very valued there on these missions and, in fact, have been able to guarantee some stability there. Now you are saying that it is as if NATO Article 5 was a prerequisite for implementing it as if or as a prerequisite for the French to come here to protect us. To assume that we're going to Mali with them, that's not true. Article five, NATO one of the most important, one of the important articles of the Treaties works without any conditions. This has been confirmed by all our allies. In any case, if there is a situation where we need help, just as this article says: "An attack on one is an attack on all. " Once an article five has been used, the only time an article five has been used is when the United States said that they had been attacked after the attack on the Twin Towers, and consequently all the allies went to the aid of the United States. So this, I'm just saying, as far as Article 5 is concerned, is absolutely out of question mark, but if we just think humanly that in your sense it is that we can always only make demands, but we have been in this situation. In fact, when you think about history, you know very well the history of Estonia and know how we were left alone and left alone for a small country is not reasonable and especially in the security situation that we currently have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I asked you in advance, just as a matter of information, that we have agreed on every question, that since we have 12 registered topics, one additional question from the main questioner and one additional question from the floor. Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U18	Let us move on to the second question asked by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, on the subject of the energy crisis. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! A week ago in Riigikogu Question Time, we talked about the same subject. And I drew your attention once again to an issue that has been repeatedly raised by the public, i.e. that people can be helped in this energy crisis in a much simpler, more dignified and more effective way than what the government has been working together today as an acute crisis response. And since it seemed to me that you did not go far enough into this option, which is called the Norwegian version, the Social Democrats did a piece of work for you, on Monday the draft decision was submitted to the Riigikogu. I hope that you have now had a chance to get to know it, all the more so since yesterday your coalition partner, the Chairman of the Riigikogu sitting right here and the Chairman of the Centre Party, also said that what they are doing in this debate, which you have been holding in public for a long time and which has not produced results so far, is that they expect that this solution, which is agreed, will be applicable to zero bureaucracy, simple, really helping people. It refers exactly to what we have proposed. In addition, the chairman of the Centre Party also spoke nicely about the fact that Estonia has had a remarkable middle class in society in 30 years and that it is difficult for them today. I agree with him, it is difficult for them, and not only those whom we treat as middle class, who are stable and well-incomeed people, because your measure also tends to go by those who are not quite middle class, but who are there somewhere between those who need income support and those who need middle class. Please explain to me, argue, why don't you go this way, which we have already offered you many times?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U20	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U21	Thank you. Yesterday there were quite several hours of discussing these topics in the Riigikogu Hall and giving them reasons. We have already taken quite a number of steps and we are also discussing further steps, but when we look at these measures, I am very surprised, frankly, that the Social Democrats, who have always been in favour of the fact that energy should be saved and the environment should be saved, come up with a proposal that absolutely does not favour energy savings, but rather favours the range that consumes more electricity, 2 000 kilowatt-hours to 3000 kilowatt-hours. I am simply pointing out that this is 2.2% of Estonian consumers. This is definitely not the majority and it does to me somehow..., it surprises me that we have somehow a table as turned around, that you stand for it then more, that it is interesting in itself. I think energy savings are also very important. We have taken a measure that should help precisely those people who are the most affected by this increase in energy prices. Whenever we do over-subsidies, of course, that means that we can do less for everyone and less for those in particular need of help. And in the end, it's all coming out of the taxpayer's pocket. We have already foreseen EUR 245 million for grants. If we compare it with VAT, which is also due to the fact that the price of electricity has risen, then this VAT is 91 million, the end of last year and this year's forecast. So this is already going to be more than what we actually collect from VAT. With regard to VAT revenue, we use it to pay these subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U22	Now, please, an additional question, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U23	I am very sorry to hear that, instead of discussing the substance, you will answer my question with a demagogic attack. If your discussions in the government look the same as your response to me now began here, then I am very sorry for the Estonian state and all those people who expect the government to be able to do something for them in this crisis, as your coalition partner said nicely: really help people. With all this demagogic fireworks, we can continue here forever and talk about what you think the Social Democrats should do. Are you also saying the same thing to a family of four or five children who live in an apartment of 80 to 100 square meters or a small house that they have put up with their work and hassle and who today spends 2000+ kilowatt-hours of electricity to keep the house warm? Are you gonna tell them you don't need this help? Prices have risen three or four times and these prices have not risen as their faulty actions. You tell them to find the money to quickly put solar cells on the roof or put on a windmill or another new and interesting gadget that maybe wealthier people can afford by investing. These people all expect the support of the state, not the demagogue with which you responded to me at the moment, without commenting, essentially, on why you have not calculated and discussed, and why you do not essentially answer the question which, in your opinion, is wrong in this measure. Your answers to yesterday before the Riigikogu also indicated that you have come to your head that you know how people have to live. Because you explained to us that for many people this support measure, which is now humiliating and insulting, you made it clear to these people through this Riigikogu speech chair that they have misunderstood. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] My question, however, is: why do you not answer this question in essence, why do you ignore it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U24	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U25	Thank you. We've made a series of decisions to help people. Firstly, we have reduced the electricity grid fee by 50%, secondly, we have reduced the gas grid fee by 100% and we have taken a targeted measure. You make an example of a family of four or five children living in their own house. Such a family of four or five children should go under this targeted measure because this targeted measure is intended for households whose income is less than the median wage. Basically, this means that the first member of the household earns median income and each of the following is a factor of 0.5, children, going from there to 0.3. Maybe it's actually designed to help these people and their people. These measures have started to work better in some municipalities, faster. It'll take some local governments a while. But this desire, the sincere desire to help people, is the government's. Why else would we have made this support in October? Now, one more thing. You very much like this Norwegian example. But what is better with our support than with Norway's example is that firstly, our support concerns 80% compensation for price increases, whether it is central heating, gas or electricity. In Norway, it only concerns electricity. Secondly, our measure is valid for seven months, and within seven months, 80% of those households earning under median income will be compensated for the increase. So it's designed to help people, and it should work that way. As I said, of course, the choice is always that things can be done less bureaucratically, which means that everyone can, even those who do not really need support. I know you're saying that everyone needs it, but in fact, most people have had an electricity bill rise of 13 euros. That's not all. However, it has been our desire to target people who need more help, and this measure is intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U26	A procedural question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U27	Thank you! Since, in the old days, these procedural questions were intended to be different, but in recent times this interpretation has been greatly expanded, the former Speaker of the Riigikogu also set an example on this subject, just a brief remark. Prime Minister! Please read the draft decision that we have tabled, it is not only about electricity, it is about gas, it is about gas, it is about the people who heat the gas and it is about those who use the central heating service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, procedural questions are that the President always gives a procedural question, he must give it. And what is being asked, what is the problem, we know that to be taken into account at the end of the question, so there is no way for the President to say that I am not giving this procedural question. So that's it. Now let's go to an additional question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U29	Thank you, Mr Ratas, Mr President of the sitting. Dear Kaja Kallas! Yesterday you made a political statement on the state of the electricity market in Estonia, and as one of the last questions I was about to ask a question, and I drew your attention to the fact that the electricity price, the megawatt-hour price in December, for example, was 400 and 600, and the highest price was 1000.07 euros per megawatt-hour. And then I asked you if you had any knowledge of how much electricity produced in Estonia costs, for example in Narva Power Plants. You told me, in answer to that, that you hadn't done these calculations, may I myself turn to somewhere. For me, the answer is completely strange. I will then let you know that the megawatt-hour price of electricity produced in Estonia is 30 euros and, with taxes, green turns and network charges, it is 50 euros. Your ignorance in the process of a political statement actually refers to a doctor who is going to operate a human kidney but does not know which area of the body to look for it. My question is very simple: how can you manage an electrical crisis if you do not know the basics?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U30	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U31	I know very clearly the ranges of electricity prices, input prices and variable costs for different energy sources. The cheapest is land-based electricity; the second is hydropower, electricity produced in sea wind parks, nuclear energy from there and oil shale and coal power stations at the end, and gas is now the most expensive. Since we have oil shale power plants that produce them, of course they were valued by him. But you specifically asked for these variable costs. And if you want me to read out the variable costs of Eesti Energia, my answer to you is that you can better and more precisely ask Eesti Energia for these specific numbers. I don't have to deliver them to you from this chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U32	Thank you. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U33	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds to the topic of crisis solutions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! Yesterday we were discussing the energy crisis here, and your presentation was very general, dispersive, and you philosophized both atom and hydrogen and everything else. I ask today that we do not now focus on a long-term perspective, which is certainly important and which requires the right strategic choices and decisions, but we also need to solve the acute problem that affects all people and businesses today. This energy price crisis, and in that regard yesterday you did not know what to say before the wise Riigikogu, but you still insisted on your proposals that they are very good and sufficient. And you're actually going to contradict yourself here in Question Time today. You say that this targeted measure is very good because it is targeted and not universal for all, and at the same time the network charges you are applying are universal, extending to both the poor and the rich, as you now share Estonian society. And you've pointed out that 2.2% of them are richer than Indrek Island and 2.2% are richer, and whatever it is, it's a percentage or two. Do you really think it is right and proportionate to exclude a percentage or two so-called wealthy people, although I say that today's crisis affects the middle class and many others, and the remaining 98% must suffer and comply with this bureaucratic application mechanism, which you still do not have an adequate picture of, how bureaucratic it is and how much it will cause problems to people? Since invoices are presented in square meters for many housing associations, they have to be converted into kilowatts and there are cases where several families have a single entry point that does not expand, and so on. I will leave aside the practical detailed problems that people and local authorities are facing, and you will continue to think that, in order to exclude this few percent, it makes sense for the entire Estonian people to ask for applications and alms here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U36	Thank you. As you rightly said, we have done both universally and targeted measures, I have never hidden it. We have made universal measures for everyone: a 50% reduction in electricity grid charges for all. People get automatically, it's expressed on their bills, they don't have to apply anywhere, they just take it off their bills. Secondly, the reduction of the gas grid fee is 100% for all those who consume gas. This, too, is directly reflected in the accounts of these people and will be taken out immediately. You don't have to make any effort for that. Now, in addition to this measure, it will allow people to compensate for 80% of their gas, electricity and central heating bills. It is indeed necessary to submit a request for this because people's incomes vary, because people's electricity consumption varies. This does not mean, for example, that if there is a high-income person, he will not receive this allowance because he will probably get it covered by his own costs. But it is aimed at helping people with median incomes, and that is why it is necessary to submit an application and these documents as well. But my feedback is that people write, say that those who apply are not as complicated as they say. There are, of course, special cases, and I admit that in such special cases, the local authority must also do more work and, of course, if there are specific things that we can make better, we are ready to do so. From the beginning of January, these measures went off; people have started to apply. Once again, I very much congratulate the municipalities and municipalities, the local authorities, who have taken sufficient steps to ensure that people receive these requests quickly, processed and also money. It has come from different municipalities with this feedback that things work. But the important thing is that people get help, and it is also important that this support can be applied for afterwards. Even if you don't get this month, you get this whole period. And once again, it is seven months, there is no measure of this magnitude in other European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U37	Please, now for the additional question, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U38	Of course, lowering network charges as a universal measure is very reasonable and I do not know when we will be able to convince you and make it clear to the government that it is also reasonable to implement this'reimbursement' as a universal measure, not as a statement-based and to communicate with sellers and producers, it is rational and reasonable. But the fact that you treat these things differently is completely unreasonable and obviously you are not familiar with all the bureaucracy that both people and local authorities have to go through. And then I will briefly quote to you that each municipality is responsible for the possibility of submitting electronic applications for its own residents. Today the municipalities then created the application in electronic systems, the data of the state registers cannot be automatically downloaded from the registers, this option has not been created in the national registers. For example: residences, children, information about the spouse, list of properties, information about the tax administration, etc. And people ask why they have to submit further applications via e-governance applications, if they already exist in different registers. That's ridiculous. And local governments have to record all these applications manually in the data register of IT solutions and grants managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs so far, because in this state register local authorities have not been allowed any other electronic access, so all of this takes place through handicraft in local governments. My limited question time does not make it possible to read out this nonsense, what really this whole application process means for people and local authorities. I think you are not really familiar with what you fired the gin and all this in order to rule out any one or two percent and to divide the Estonian people into poor and rich again in the current situation, where the main problem is that more than half of the Estonian population qualifies as poor, who should then apply, it is not proportionate and reasonable. And my question is actually: you had a discussion with a coalition partner this morning, did you come to any agreement, some more reasonable agreement and a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U40	Thank you. First of all, we made this solution very quickly, on 28 October we made decisions and, in fact, in order to be able to pay out from 1 January, an IT solution had to be made. You know how much time IT solutions take. Of course, I fully agree with you in this respect that these things should work better in the digital state. But what is the concern of this measure, or rather the extent of this problem, is that we actually have three different elements in this support. First of all, we do not know people's electricity bills, because electricity sellers do not belong to the state, but are different, are billing directly to people, so we do not know how much someone consumes, at what price. Secondly, households really do have certain data in the population register, but 20% of these data are not true, so we do not know who lives with whom. Whether students live on their own, live on their own, we don't know that. Third, income. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Incomes are indeed then received from the tax office, but just as there are a number of data in the tax return that cannot be automatically received and must be presented separately. So it really is. But you say, it's like you're disparaging the fact that they're... I will highlight these consumption data, but I believe that all decisions must still be based on data. And if I look here at the largest number of consumers, if you take that all electricity consumers actually or households, the measuring points, there are 648004 measuring points, and behind each measuring point is the household, I recall, the highest number of measuring points, i.e. 371312 measuring points, consume less than 200 kilowatt-hours of electricity and their price increase has been 13 euros. That this is the majority of these electricity consumers. I don't think I'm gonna make it any more difficult for a lot of people, but we're still based on the facts and numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U41	Now, one more question. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U42	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! First of all, in the interests of better dialogue, I will say right away, and yesterday I asked you such a quite specific question, too, if you were here to make this statement about the stock market, that I would not attack you. You said that Siim Pohlak attacked me with this. I'm not attacking you. Really, if I attack anything, I might attack a poor energy policy or a Nord Pool power exchange that doesn't work. So I wish that we could normally discuss and also get a quick working solution. After all, yesterday we reached a basically common understanding that we have problems with connections. The same example is that in Finland, the megawatt-hour price of electricity is 40 euros, in Estonia, the exchange is probably not working very well because of the problem of connections. Since it will take time to build new connections, we will need a longer solution in the meantime. We cannot pay subsidies on the basis of applications. I believe you agree that you are in no way fair that the Estonian companies that produce in Estonia must pay ten times more for one of the most important inputs or for the most important input, or electricity, than the Finnish companies. This is not sustainable. It cannot last for two months, three months or six months or a year until the connections are finally completed. I'd really like to know what we're gonna do with this stock market, if it still doesn't work, we don't have connections. Do you have any solutions besides this unfortunately bureaucratic compensation mechanism, from which businesses are still not supported at all? I will say once again that I am not attacking you, but I would just like to have a debate. After all, we see that this stock market is not working and we need a more universal measure. We cannot stay until April or May to process these applications. So, please, just maybe in the form of a dialogue, what do you think of this stock market situation? Do you have any longer plans besides collecting applications?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U43	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U44	Thank you. You're saying the stock exchange doesn't work for that time. If I take all the time the stock exchange has been, in 2011 the price of Estonia has been 43.35, the average price for the whole year. 2012 to 39.20; 2013 to 43.14; 2014 to 37.61; 2015 to 31.08; 2016 to 33.06.2017 to 33.20; 2018 to 47.07; 2019 to 45.86; 2020 to 33.69. It's all stock market time. So that's the price the stock market has given us all these years. Right now, yes, there is a problem, because the price of natural gas has risen exceptionally. Indeed, the price of natural gas at variable costs will reach the market at EUR 200 per megawatt-hour, which will upset the price of the power exchange. At the same time, if we had more renewable energy offers, such as land wind, can even access the market at zero variable costs, hydro €5,15 per megawatt-hour. So these are actually the ones that bring cheaper prices. Now, I do not agree that we absolutely immediately throw the child out with the washing water and say that the stock exchange is not working, but we need to look at what has upset these prices. What have these prices set in the market? This must be a difficult situation. What do electricity sellers and electricity market players say? That this is probably the situation we need to take into account. Prices have gone up everywhere in the world. You do not like the European Union, I understand it that way, but let us take even Britain, which is out of the European Union, they have higher prices than we and this Nord Pool market. Or take it farther from the Nord Pool market, for example, China's energy prices have increased exactly the same. And why has it risen? Because demand has also risen everywhere and supply has not come back for it. So we have to deal with the fact that more offers are coming here, which is to say we have more production capacities, and that these capacities use sources that have low variable costs as energy sources, and that is why they are undercutting the whole price.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U45	That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U46	Let us move on to the fifth question put by Mr Ossinovski, which is answered by the Minister for the Environment, Erki Savisaar, and the subject is about environmental policy. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, The question is about a moody interview you gave to the ERR portal. This raised quite a number of important questions. The first and most important thing, of course, is that in the meantime it got easier, but now we have a Minister for the Environment who is trying to question the world's climate science consensus that climate change is man-made. That's where you say yes, there's some kind of effect, but no one really knows how much that effect is, and there's an argument about it. The International Climate Panel IPCC has recently released the physical, biotransformation physical part of the 6th wave report, which you are probably not familiar with, I would suggest, very clearly, that it is indisputable that the increase in temperature over the last century and shortly after has occurred is almost a degree, a one-degree increase due to man-made and increased greenhouse gas emissions. It is not really a question of what appeared or did not appear in one interview, but of much more principle, given that the way in which reality is understood depends on what decisions are made. It would be strange if, for example, the Minister of Health was anti-vaccine. Says there's research, but I don't believe them, they argue whether they're effective or not. I don't think that would be adequate. And therefore, I have the question: on what sources do you call into question the international climate science consensus? And, of course, in essence, since there are no such sources, I will give you the opportunity to correct your claims so that the Estonian people are not embarrassed about their rulers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U48	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U49	Thank you, Evgeny, for this question. I didn't in any way question science and scientists and their proven facts in this interview. I made it clear that people have a role to play in this climate change. And really, as you claimed, the argument goes over how big it is. At the moment, it is understood that one degree is man-made, but maybe this effect is greater, we don't know it. Maybe this effect is a little bit less. There are certainly other influences, and there is no clarity either, if we now achieve all the green turning goals that we have agreed jointly that we are moving towards carbon neutrality, Europe, including Estonia by 2050, the rest of the world a little slower, so what happens next. Will this warming stop, how quickly it stops, or will it start to turn back, how quickly it turns, and what effects do it have? We have a lot of unanswered questions about this, but there is no doubt that people have played an important role in the climate change that we have been hit over the last few hundred years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U50	More question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U51	There aren't always many unanswered questions if you don't try to find adequate answers for them. This same report, I recommend that you read the part of the question of how quickly a change can be achieved, for example, by the one-and-a-half degree warming declared by the countries as a goal of the Paris climate agreement, including Estonia. It's already inevitable. No matter what we do today, this warming will come. If we take such steps quickly enough, it will be possible to prevent further action. But it may not be possible either, in the sense that a negative scenario could still materialise. But the rest of what you said just isn't true. The fact that there are disputes about the extent to which human influence on climate warming is not one of climate scientists. There are no arguments. And frankly, a member of the Government of the Republic could rely on what is a climate policy consensus on this issue. Now, my second question concerns the issue of forests, which has been discussed at length in this same interview. In the context of the climate package, the European Union has set itself the objective of ensuring 2.5 million megatonnes of LULUCF in the land use sector in 2030. And the government has said it's impossible. You repeated those claims that it was impossible. The Environmental Agency has calculated this: in order to achieve this, cutting capacity needs to be reduced by about 10% to 9.5 million cubic metres. For me, this does not seem impossible, but on the contrary, it seems very adequate, given the ecological crisis that we have up in the context of biodiversity. Consequently, I would like to ask you and ask you to explain your assessment a little bit because, according to the main scenario of the forestry development plan, there are currently 8 000 square kilometres of Estonia to be cut off over the next 30 years, 20% of the land area of Estonia, which I think is too much. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Should be reduced. You say it's impossible. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U52	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U53	Thank you, Evgeny! You're twisting my words again. I have never said that achieving this goal would be impossible. I have said that this is not socio-economically sensible. So, yes, it can be done, but it is accompanied by very serious socio-economic effects, which we are not prepared for, and therefore it is not reasonable for us to choose this route, we must approach it in a balanced way. I would also like to point out that, for some reason, we want to reduce all this LULUCF to forestry, but LULUCF is a much wider area, it also involves land use more widely, both in agriculture and in bogs, and so on. So we must certainly look at this picture comprehensively and analyse what are the sensible solutions for Estonia, where nature would have been preserved, carbon sequestration would take place, carbon storage would also take place, and that life in Estonia's rural areas could continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U54	Now for an additional question, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U55	Thank you. By answering these two questions, it was very interesting to observe how you have a very strong attachment, that if you really increase the bonding in Estonia, these socio-economic consequences are severe. But the fact that climate change is man-made, well that there is still, that what the effect is exactly, and how big, that maybe it is bigger or less, in some subjects you have a strong inland touch and in the other you do not. For me, the question is how this influx is reflected in your ministerial work. The Minister of Education, sitting on your right hand, could certainly say that it is very interesting to discuss what quality education is, how to measure results, which is the impact of quality education on society at large. But that doesn't mean he doesn't move on to design a learner-centred education system. And just as the Prime Minister sitting on your left hand could speak in a security policy about what is the threat to Russia. What are the risks? I wonder what those risks are anyway. But the strong message that yes, we are not afraid, and that our security threat will come... must be issued, whatever philosophical questions the Prime Minister has. Now, given your questions about man-made global warming. As a minister, are you working to ensure that Estonia has its own green turn? The fact that we are able to mitigate socio-economic risks for people, but in fact, for the climate and the environment, these important goals are to be met, are you working for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U56	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U57	Yeah, thanks, Riina! Oh, where do I start? There were so many such exciting questions and hypotheses. Let us start by clearly agreeing that we are moving together towards climate neutrality. Estonia will become climate-neutral or carbon-neutral by 2050 and will work every day to achieve this goal by looking for solutions to step by step to get closer to this goal. Estonia has been very good at reducing carbon emissions, but it is also true that every next step that we have to take is more complicated and needs better analysis and more clarification among the people. This is the day-to-day work of the Ministry of the Environment, and we are looking, among other things, for ways to make more reasonable use of natural resources. If we are talking, for example, about the same forest from which this tree cannot be brought out, because there is a forest beneath it, then for some reason it is said that no mushrooms should be brought out of this forest, there must be no berries grown there. For example, does it make sense for us to prohibit mushroom breeding in order to protect a wild boar? I don't think it's like that. In this light, we need to look at our entire defence policy and still agree on what really are these protected values. On this basis, we may also find other ways of using forest land, which does not require that this tree be dragged out of the forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U58	And here's, as usual, a procedural question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U59	I'm sorry! I also take this opportunity unintendedly, but I really would really like to praise you (President: "Do not use!") that this information of the members of the government is so great. I hope so under the leadership of the Riigikogu. I'm a big mushroom friend, for example. So the members of the government are very well informed and know which buttons to press when answering the ambassadors' questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U60	Thank you. Thank you. Okay, but let's move on from here. The fifth question is dealt with in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U61	Let's move on to question six. Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is about the energy crisis. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U62	Good manager! Prime Minister! The market price for electricity arises in relation to demand and supply. At the same time, the price of electricity depends on the weather, both hydropower, wind and solar effects. We know that in recent years Estonia has also had to import electricity and we have bottlenecks between Estonia and Finland on the one hand and Sweden and Lithuania on the other. In fact, the increase in electricity prices is mainly due to the increase in the price of CO2 emissions. And when you answered the previous speaker here, you said that all decisions must be based on data. And please don't answer me, so I should ask you somewhere else. If you do not know the oral answer today, I would ask you to do so in writing, and my question is very simple. How much was Eesti Energia financially buying the CO2 quota in December, and how was the government's balance of CO2 trade balance in December as a whole in the European CO2 trading system? Because in reality today's electricity price depends very much on the fact that if we knew that the price of selling CO2 could be around EUR 24 per tonne, it has reached 100 today. It is said that in December next year it will be 240 and as long as we do not have enough electricity generation through renewable energy, the price of electricity on our Estonian market will be in the sky.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U63	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U64	Thank you. Your question here is about the 'Energy Crisis', but you are asking for very specific numbers that I do not have with me right now. For example, if you had asked me about the price of CO2, I would have known how to prepare it, I could have taken these specific numbers with me. So I have to answer this question in writing, because I really do not have these numbers and I do not want to be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U65	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U66	Thank you. I didn't expect you to know all the numbers by heart. But since you've shown us here yesterday that you know everything exactly how these solutions are, it makes perfect sense that the government should now have a CO2 theme as a daily one. We know how much the state earns, how much Eesti Energia earns. But on the other hand, I'm asking you that you started your speech yesterday, and today, too, that the price of electricity was actually supposed to be high because the gas has risen. I do not know how much gas electricity is produced in Estonia, with neighbours in Lithuania. But I would like to remind you that the biggest problem in our area is the lack of a large LNG terminal that would make it possible to secure itself when the winter comes. And then I look, on October 31, 2014, your predecessor, Taavi Rõivas, has said that the LNG terminal in Estonia is only a bright blue dream. Estonia must abandon LNG regional terminal in favour of Finland. The Balticconnector gas pipeline and everything else that Elering and Balticconnector OÜ should deal with to improve the security of natural gas supply will then be discussed between Finland and Estonia. What is the situation today, do you agree that your party's previous Prime Minister, that the LNG terminal would not be needed, or could it today, if it were, perhaps as in Europe, the price fell as soon as the liquid gas was brought in, that you suddenly in 2014 the Estonian state made the wrong decision and gave it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U67	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U68	Thank you. First of all, a lot of gas directly produces electricity in Estonia, then as far as I know 8%, that really, this proportion in Estonia is not large, but since we are part of Nord Pool, we know that this market works in such a way that the last player to enter the market determines the market price on the basis of his variable costs. Now and therefore, as there are gas stations elsewhere, this price will be determined accordingly. And our oil shale, too, is actually quite expensive at a price of between 130 and 200 euros in megawatt-hours is the one that enables oil shale to enter the market. Of course, we will monitor the price of CO2 in the government and also monitor how much more we have gained from this excess of CO2 and we will then have thought about this excess of CO2 to finance this very measure of targeted increase in electricity prices, that is what is happening now. Coming to this LNG terminal, indeed what you are describing, these decisions have been, I understand that there is a list of projects of common interest in energy in the European Union that are updated every two years. If I read this material correctly, then basically this Paldiski project, which you are probably talking about, although you did not specifically mention it, this Paldiski project has actually tried to obtain this support from the European Union before, in 2016, when the Finnish terminal fell out. And at that time, this support was asked for out of total costs, i.e. approximately EUR 136 million. But I understand that in 2017, the European Commission rejected the request for this project, and when I read these materials, I realise that this basic reason is that it is as if one of the terminals that will receive European Union funding, but since there is no direct agreement between Member States, the European Commission does not want to come directly to say that where it should come from. But it has not been on my desk at the moment in the form that it has not been a decision point, no such proposals have been put forward at the moment, but given this gas price development, LNG is, of course, an alternative to this. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry! I can continue to answer the following questions:
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U69	And now, please, one further question. Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I hope, however, that you will answer me back. So let's keep talking about how you read the time series from 2013, how the stock market prices used to be cheaper. I think there's a lot of reasons. In 2013, for example, the same crypto mining was not very, very energy-intensive, but if you rewind this time series, look back to 2012, 2011, 2010 it was even cheaper for electricity, we had a fixed price. Maybe we should go back there. You were talking about all kinds of plans, talking about wind power, hydropower, and all these plans are great, and when there's more of them, nobody's gonna mind, but they're gonna take time. It takes time, and I understand that maybe you'd like to argue on these numbers, but I'd rather hear the solutions anyway, so what happens now is that if this unstable stock exchange and all this current situation continues for six months, for example, that these prices are going to be staggering at 200, at 400. Our people, and especially our entrepreneurs, cannot stand it. Businesses don't get support, there's going to be a wave of bankruptcies. Perhaps it would still be worth considering finding a solution to this stock exchange, even temporarily suspending participation in the stock exchange and trying to produce the maximum amount of electricity in the state stations in Estonia and then buying the rest, even with the country's subsidy from outside, so that if we were able to cut the price of this electricity, it would be a very big competitive advantage for our companies in the situation you described, where the price of electricity is rising everywhere in Europe, throughout the world, in China. Perhaps the state should try to get into a boat with entrepreneurs here and really also through the price suppression of electricity then to strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses now, even if compared to our immediate neighbours. On the contrary, at the exchange price we lose in competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U72	Thank you. First of all, you product 2011-2012, 2011 average price was 43,35, 2012 to 39,20. In fact, it is much higher than it was in 2020, for example, when this stock exchange worked, first. Secondly, the temporary solution, I actually stood here in front of the Riigikogu yesterday and for several hours, and I talked about these solutions, long-term solutions and medium-term solutions. Would you like to speak more in private, or should I answer you? Got it. What do we have in mind? Estonia is currently a net importer of electricity, which means that we need production capacity from other countries. This means that when we say and you say that this solution is that we close the connections and we only produce here, we actually don't get this cheaper electricity. This is simply because, if the price of oil shale is EUR 130 to 200 per megawatt-hour, then, in fact, Nordic hydropower, also Latvian hydropower, wind energy will bring this price down and that we are actually part of the market will also give us the opportunity to bring these prices down. Now, this short solution is what I was talking about yesterday, which really to people and businesses who fear these American mountains and very high prices, then this short solution is to buy basically insurance through that you fix your price. Yeah, I agree it's very high right now to fix it. There is one such short solution, which is also in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and this is the electricity market law, which provides an opportunity for electricity sellers to fix this price then for a longer period so that they can bring this price down. I have had a meeting with electricity sellers who say that they could even bring this price down to EUR 20.30 per megawatt-hour if it were possible to fix this price for the home consumer over a longer period of time. We know that there are large-scale productions that have actually made their fixed contracts over a long period of time in order to reduce these stock market fluctuations and actually ensure a stable price for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U73	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U74	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Merry Aart, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is to exert pressure on family doctors. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U75	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. The problem I would like to answer is this: in late November or December, family doctors received a letter threatening with contractual penalties if they do not vaccinate a certain percentage of patients by a certain date. They are required to understand why a person who refused to give the injection is reluctant to vaccinate, how many times he or she has been called, how many times the counselling has been conducted and so on. In the spring, the family doctors did not have enough vaccines, which we heard right here in the hall when they were ready to assist and on the grounds that there were no vaccines. We later saw that a cluster hack in the cold store showed that there were actually vaccines, after all, there was no skill or willingness to use it. We have a chronic shortage of family doctors, especially in rural areas. People don't get to see a doctor when they need to, but when they can. Here's my question. Is this demand by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund responsible for the interests of society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U76	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U77	Thank you. First of all, I just want to say that you have a very beautiful sweater, and I've been watching all this time. Since your party chairman once commented on my dress, I take the liberty of saying this as a start. But now to this particular concern. Indeed, checks have been carried out on GMPs and are intended to check that GMPs have done enough to achieve the objectives of vaccination. And this examination shows that there is nothing to blame for family doctors. In fact, I have been in constant contact with family doctors, and family doctors have been very helpful throughout this crisis; they have called on their patients to vaccinate; they have done this work alongside their other work. And this has certainly led to the need for additional labour. All they have to do is be grateful for all the work they've done. As you say, really, we have a chronic shortage of family doctors, in certain areas this shortage of family doctors is also greater, and this needs to be dealt with separately. There's one more thing I want to fix. In the Health Board's cold warehouse, AstraZeneca vaccines were not actually used in this way, so there were really other medicines that went to waste, including other vaccines that went to waste, but those COVID vaccines were already in other warehouses and healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U78	Now for an additional question, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U79	Yeah, I'm just asking, for the sake of clarification, is it really a family doctor's job to do this kind of accounting? It's actually gonna take them a lot of time. I know quite a few family doctors. Since there was an AK badge, they didn't show me those letters, but they were just worried about the thing. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U80	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U81	Thank you. Certainly, a family physician must be involved in counseling, helping, and curing people, and this should be his or her main time. Any additional bureaucratic demands take away this time, because every time you do something, you do nothing else at the same time. Therefore, there should certainly be fewer of these demands. According to the material that I have been asked about this particular question, it seems that it has been such a one-time check and that there is no longer any effect. It has been a concern that the behaviour of family doctors has also been very different with regard to vaccination, some having a whole list of vaccinated. For example, when I asked a family doctor who had a very high degree of involvement about how he achieved it, he said that he was still convincing older people. Convinced that the disease shouldn't catch them because it's dangerous for them. Some others may not spend so much [time] on persuasion. But, as you say well yourself, the burden of family doctors is great, and in certain regions it is even greater if you do not have so many supporting staff. So I hope family doctors can focus on their main job. I think we all hope that they will no longer have to deal with this COVID crisis through, for example, directing people to tests, passing these letters. But, unfortunately, we are now in this COVID tsunami, which has also hit all other European countries. So right now, this load is really big. I am very grateful to the family doctors and their staff that they are doing this work and are still holding up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U82	And now one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have to apologize, my question does not concern the family doctors, but since there are so many questions about the energy crisis in Question Time today, there is nothing surprising and new. My question is that, as you said yesterday, and we both said that there are people who are calling, you and probably a lot of people sitting here are turning to their concerns. And it seems to me that you may have been approached by the voters of the Reform Party, and it may be that they are addressing their ambassadors or representatives. In fact, what my colleague, Mr Seeder, has already pointed out here, is how social workers work really no tension at the border, late at night inserting data to quickly pay out this support, and how people actually call to say that examples of cities do not mean that coming from counties with snow, slippage, a suggestion not to come during the crown virus and the time of its rapidly spreading strain into crowded places, that one crisis actually feeds another crisis. I would like to ask you a question, and I very much support the idea of Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, despite the Social Democrats' request and desire to raise the level of subsistence in the early autumn, also on 9 December when they proposed six measures and a package to alleviate the energy crisis. I very much hope, and can you confirm suddenly today that Signe Riisalo's proposal to raise the subsistence limit of EUR 50, which is to say, as a first member of the family, EUR 200, could be supported by the government, although it could be said that the absolute poverty rate is actually EUR 220, but a step very right in any case, but unfortunately three months late. Can you confirm that maybe this time it will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U84	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U85	Thank you. Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo has indeed carried out such analyses, and we will certainly be discussing such proposals in the government. He also has a number of other concerns, which he points out in connection with the increase in electricity prices. I think that these are concerns in all areas and these concerns are reflected back in this Chamber as well. We are discussing this, I do not have the answer right now that, yes, we will do exactly that, because in short, it comes when, as my grandmother said, everything in its own time or a little later. However, we will rather try to do this earlier in order to have this debate, which we can do there. Now I want to say one more thing about these subsidies, that it really is very different, whether we are talking about cities or whether we are talking about counties. There are also very different local authorities, and indeed this slippery outside is very worrying that older people are moving, can fall and, in addition to the COVID crisis, and the spreading omicronth strain, which really spreads faster than previous strains and also threatens the elderly. So in this respect I am, too, the last time you specifically asked about pensioners living alone, for example, that we have this database, I have also asked the Minister of Public Administration whether, for example, we could not make it even easier for these people not to go, and I know that this solution is being sought out whether there are some age groups that are more vulnerable, opportunities to make these things easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U86	Thank you. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U87	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Riigikogu member Helmen Kütt, the Minister of Education and Research Liina Kersna, and the topic is about the future of special schools. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U88	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Education and Science, My question concerns the fate and future livelihood of schools for children with special educational needs and the role and place of these important schools in the development plans for education. The reason I ask you this is that, as a member of the Riigikogu and as a member of the Social Affairs Committee, and now, as a minister, it has always been close to your heart. I remember when we went to these schools. And now that you've become a minister, any analyses have been carried out, any thoughts? In fact, this information is expected as to how the future fate of these schools will develop, because we all know that the kind of work that these schools do will also depend on how these children succeed later. And, of course, inclusive education is very important for certain children and is also used, for some it suits. But I am quite convinced of that, and I think that you too, that the role and place of such schools are of considerable importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U89	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U90	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, we have discussed these issues with you here in the Riigikogu and have also worked on these issues in the Social Social Affairs Committee. Now, as Minister for Education and Science, I dare say very clearly that the network of schools for children with special needs is important. I think that the responsibility of the state in maintaining schools for children with special needs is also important in order to ensure that children with special needs have as equal access as possible and the best possible level of education. And indeed, I have also now attended several schools as ministers, such as recently at Porkuni School, where there is an excellent modern learning environment, where really those children who study there are currently close to 90 years old getting a good education according to their abilities and can experience success. Along the way, they have very excellent rehabilitation opportunities, really, they are extensive. When I go to such schools, I can only confirm that they are important parts of the educational network and that the responsibility of the state must remain. Now, the question is that really in the last ten years, the number of special schools has decreased. Ten years ago there were 25 of them, today there are 14 schools of children with special needs. There are certainly schools where it is not even worth considering transferring them to local authorities. There are very small schools where, in principle, you can talk to local authorities about whether they would like to take over these schools and under what conditions. But I certainly don't do that lightly. As a country, we need to understand very clearly what the goal of local government is. In my opinion, it is also not right to hand over any school for children with special needs to one local government, but at least on the assumption that local governments bordering on this school are cooperating, because there is clearly no need for a special needs school for one local government unless it is Tartu or Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U91	Additional question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U92	Thank you very much. I am very grateful for the fact that you have taken this issue entirely from your perspective as a minister, and you consider it very important. The question may continue to be that, indeed, these schools are different across Estonia; they are also different from one country to another. The role of county centres in providing certain services and organising education is also very important and very different. And the question is, has there been suddenly an analysis, an overview of the learning opportunities in the whole of Estonia, but also taking into account the counties, or is there some kind of measurement for this quality assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U93	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U94	Thank you. First of all, we need to be sure that every child, according to his or her abilities, receives good education and support. I know that there has been a great deal of response to the implementation of inclusive education, and indeed, we have attitudes where, in implementing inclusive education, a child with special needs is in trouble in the school system. Either he hasn't been noticed, there hasn't been enough opportunity to support him, and we can't let that happen. We need to think about the interests of children in making these decisions first and foremost. If there are not enough support staff on the local school network, sufficient skills-knowledge on how to support a child with special needs, we must not direct that child there knowing that he or she will not receive support there. We must direct the child to such a school in cooperation with parents, of course, where we know that he or she will receive support. We've really heard, these are marked isolated cases, but they still show something that we have an 11-year-old child in a school system who can't read. This is not normal and we should identify such things much earlier. And that is why I think that when we make these decisions, we need to look at this area more precisely at the possibilities that this region has for a specific child to offer the greatest possible opportunity for development. And that is why it is also important for local authorities to cooperate in making these decisions, because in most cases, however, the core school network is owned by the local government and therefore the development plans should remain so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U95	And now one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm not talking about special school here, I'm talking about school, and I'm going to read you a letter that has taken place in one of the schools, and there's gonna be a question about that. There's a class where there's only one unvaccinated student, the whole class. It should be reported that the child in the COVID-19 class is ill. This child is not the one and only unvaccinated child. But the quarantine must remain for the unvaccinated child. He'll get a chance to go to the test when it's been four days since the contact, and the school will get a negative test. At the same time, vaccinated children continue to attend school. If the diseases brought a vaccinated student to the class Thinking a little further: if this unvaccinated child now goes back to school after learning the results of the negative PCR test, but the vaccinated children have gone to school and spread the virus again, and if someone else is COVID-19 positive, then this one unvaccinated child must stay home again for four days. This child will be excluded from his or her studies, and he or she will have to follow up on all his or her tests and tests later. We have seen here how the government, using various measures, has put pressure on people of all kinds to vaccinate. My question is, from this point of view: how long will this government's discrimination against people and the violation of their rights continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U97	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U98	Thank you. We have kept the education system as open as possible throughout this crisis. We have not made a distinction between vaccinated and unvaccinated children when we are talking about general education. Really, there's a difference in isolation rules. Even today, in the context of the spread of the omicron virus, however, we can see from the data that vaccinated people are less infected and that vaccinated young people are also less infected. Look at Krista Fischer's calculations. That's how these tables run. Indeed, with the arrival of an omicron, when young people who had been vaccinated had a very high level of protection, there was a period here in mid-December, where there was 11 times less likelihood of infection with a vaccinated young person, then today it is a two-and-a-half-fold difference, but still two-and-a-half times less likely to be infected with vaccinated young people. We're changing... Or I mean, we have a plan to change that, we are also discussing a change in the simplified quarantine regime in the government on Thursday, so that those who go into isolation in the school environment, who are unvaccinated, should not take a PCR test anymore, but they could take a quick test at home. And the answer to you is, why can those who have been vaccinated stay in school even though they can spread the virus? We fast-test the entire school family as of now twice a week, and also those vaccinated students who give a positive rapid test go home, can't go back to school, have to take a PCR test. So in any case, by rapid testing, we will test both those who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated. It should also create a safer school environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U99	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U100	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of the Environment Erki Savisaar responds. The subject is a heroe. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U101	Thank you. Dear Minister Erki Savisaar! In addition to managing crises, we actually have to work every day, both in the government and in Parliament, to shape its vision for the future, and this concerns, above all, economic structural change and a change in our way of thinking. This week, in the framework of the same Fit for 55, we have been discussing, in the Committee on the Environment, the development of the Renewable Energy Directive and the establishment of a position for the European Commission. And, in fact, it came out of this debate very clearly as regards the sustainability criteria for bioenergy and, in fact, we have been guided from a European point of view. In 2027 Member States cannot grant aid to plants producing only electricity from biomass. It is probably true that we belong to this region, which is linked to a fair transition, but in this same bunch of problems, we will come up with the next issue, where we have the guidelines. Wood from primary forests or biologically diverse forests, as well as from wetlands or peat areas, shall no longer be used for bioenergy. This is directly related to the instrument of the certificate of origin in order to ensure a uniform functioning and organisation of the market. My question to you is very clear whether, in addition to the so-called cutting volume limitation that comes with the forestry development plan to meet our CO2 quota targets and so on, there is also a new trend that will emerge where you can actually be cut as owner, but no one can buy to earn this wood for energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U102	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U103	Thank you, good Andres! What we need to think about here is the problem we are solving, and the problem is deforestation and degradation of forests, and what is going to have a significant impact on climate change and loss of biodiversity. One of its biggest drivers is the expansion of agricultural land for the production of goods such as beef, cocoa, coffee, palm oil and soya. And the European Union is a very important consumer of goods linked to deforestation and forest degradation. At the same time, we do not have very specific and effective provisions that would reduce the European Union's contribution to the deepening of deforestation and forest degradation. The aim of this initiative is to minimise the consumption of products from supply chains linked to deforestation or forest degradation and to increase the European Union's demand for, trade in, and trade in, legal and non-wasted goods and products and presumably reduce greenhouse gas emissions and halt or minimise global biodiversity loss. As a result, there will be a whole package of different measures, one of which is that, indeed, if we have a forest of great biodiversity, then perhaps there would be another use to use it than just running the oven. It's like the essence. As far as these subsidies are concerned, for each initiative, the subsidies are intended to give the'start-up' acceleration so that the wheel can roll. And at the moment, there are quite a lot of bio-energy plants, both heat and power cogeneration plants, and they are doing well, and I believe that there is no need for direct support for their future operation and, if necessary, for more, for them to be able to deliver on market terms, as well as any other alternative means of generating heat and electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U104	More question, Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U105	Thank you. Indeed, it is understandable that this dependence on support is a problem, and the beginnings are largely that of bringing new technologies to the market. And here I am actually moving forward from the forest with a theme of national wealth to the wind that has been characteristic of Denmark, but Estonia is also taking very big steps towards producing energy with windmills. Indeed, yesterday we found out about the judgment in the context of Toots' wind farm, the decision was that we were thinking more. My concern, frankly, is in this living environment versus legal. How can we make people understand that the earth is burning under our feet? In one way we need new energy capacities, we are in a crisis, we have assessed all the environmental impacts, we have made it clear that there can be built, and then finally we are arguing about how much more energy should be subsidized by the buyer from the market or the taxpayer from the market so that we can take this step. How do you, as Minister of the Environment, look at this whole thing or can you propose a solution? Or is it really the solution that we expect such legal clarity so that we can get justice in the house? But life can go on a planet Earth like this all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U106	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U107	Thank you. Very philosophical question. I agree with you in this respect that we are stuck here in endless debates and impact assessments in Estonia, rather than actually doing something to make the situation better. I think that a representative of the people here as a Riigikogu could also look more closely at this issue and try to conclude a social agreement that we are actually taking some steps. We understand that all steps may not be right, but they are still steps in the right direction and will bring us closer to the goal we have set ourselves, which is climate neutrality by 2050. To get there, we need to reorganize our energy. We need to abandon the methods that we have used so far and start using alternative methods that are no worse than those that we have had so far. It's just that they're more environmentally friendly. It is also right that our energy consumption will increase during this whole green turn. Perhaps this hero is a major electrification; we are going to have a lot of machinery, equipment working on batteries, and we also want to put vehicles on power lines. This is exponentially increasing electricity consumption, which we have had so far, after all, historically was simply a light bulb and a refrigerator. After all, all these other methods have been added here over time. So we need to increase our production capacities very quickly to meet this demand. Here, of course, it is very interesting to observe this green fight, where they say, on the one hand, that we are shutting down all the power plants that have worked so far, and instead we are building windmills, wind farms. And the second sentence says that there are no wind farms in Estonia, because we have other values here. I think that we should somehow resolve this conflict and find a common part that how many of these wind farms will be in Estonia and how many of them will be in our land, on land wind farms, and how many of them will be in the sea and where we will get all the rest of the energy we need and how we will stabilise our network.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U108	Now for an additional question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U109	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good, Erki! You and I have seen these advanced technologies based on our oil shale chemistry achievements in the past, in the present, hopes for the future, and which contribute to our oil shale enhancement. Yes, we know that now the poison greens are doing everything they can to sink our economy and poison our society, but nevertheless these technologies are not harmful to us. After all, oil shale mining is not by its very nature a greenhouse gas increase, a CO2 increase, and these technologies are very progressive. Can I ask you a question and get an answer about whether these developments are positive and progressing, or are they standing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U110	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U111	Thank you. After all, our entrepreneurs and scientists are working in all directions, we are looking for new solutions and we are also looking for better ways to use available resources, including oil shale. I have to say, sadly, that our R &amp; D funding does not provide very much for such experimental projects. And such large-scale experiments are resource-intensive and knowledge-intensive, and we could certainly do more with them. However, it cannot be said that it is not being dealt with at all. Estonian Energia is also currently building a new chemical plant, which uses oil shale to recycle plastics. Once they have completed one test, concerning the reprocessing of old tyres into oil using oil shale, from which tyres could also be re-produced as the next step or plastices, the next problem is now being addressed, how all the old plastic with which there is nothing much smarter to do than to bury today or simply to drive the furnace back into oil, from which it can be made again into plastic and redirected to a regular circular use. Of course, these technologies still exist, and there are a lot of very daring thoughts on our inventors' desk. And we could come up with some sort of methodology to control the real-life performance of these thoughts. Are they only working on paper, or are they also able to apply them in real terms and solve some major problem for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U112	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U113	Let us move on to the next question, which is the tenth. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is the deep state. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U114	Good manager! Prime Minister! On 27 May last year, Anvar Samos, the news manager for national broadcasting, wrote an article entitled "Deep State or ABS? " ABS is known to be the version of Rein Lang, the former Minister of Justice, as an administrative bureaucratic system. And what did Anvar Samos write, the news manager? "The black box of decisions made in the public circle is considerably larger than that of politicians and in addition is constantly growing [... ]. Officials write the most important law of the year so that Members do not understand it first and, secondly, they do not have a substantive opportunity to change it. He now asks this: 'If the public can no longer access public documents or Parliament understands the state budget, we have a problem - whether in the form of a deep state or an ABS'. Now, the question, Prime Minister. Have you ever felt that the black box of decisions made by officials from the country is bigger than that of politicians and is constantly growing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U115	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U116	Thank you for that question. Firstly, I would like to say that both politicians and officials are all outside for the Estonian state. My contact with officials has been very positive, but these are very thorough people, people who know their field well, intelligent people, hardworking people. The authority's competences also certainly honour Estonia at all levels. I think this is where we work together. Of course, politicians can and will assign tasks, officials will try to respond to these requests and then develop drafts or come up with different solutions accordingly. So so so far, this cooperation has worked very well and I would certainly not oppose any of the people working in Estonia, either at the level of politicians or officials or at any other level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U117	And now for the additional question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U118	Glad to hear it! But recently you were upset with the editors-in-chiefs that middle-aged people, not that you didn't say white men, but those who don't understand your good thoughts, such a barrier, have come into contact? But I'm asking you if you've been in contact with the officials, well, you're also, you know, the officials are saying that politicians are coming and going, you're one of them, me too, but we, I mean, are staying. You've been exposed to the fact that you'd like to realise your political agenda, but you see, among officials, this thing doesn't fly, and maybe you try to stop it from being a politician's life span is short and it doesn't work out, you've sensed it, or has everything gone like a lepidopty trait to realize all political desires?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U119	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U120	First of all, I'll come to your starting comment. Women are no better than men and men than women, we have just different life experiences and, of course, this different life experiences just don't know what it's like to be in my skin and I don't know what it's like to be in your skin. And that's exactly what it is. As far as officials are concerned, top officials are on fixed-term contracts and it is not that no one is in office forever. The top officials are also elected by the selection board, I do not know what exactly they have, but there is also a rotation between the officials. In any case, I have been able to work nicely with the officials, and this cooperation has gone well, and I do not really have any reproach on the officials. I understand very well, as you say, that we really do have elected positions, which means that if there are elections, voters will either support you or no longer support you. And then you have to look for another job, so you have to take that into account, of course. But again, I wouldn't oppose officials to politicians and vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U121	And now for an additional question, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U122	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! In recent days, you have repeatedly stressed that we cannot implement such an automated support measure with a low administrative burden in the energy crisis because our data is not accurate. You also reiterated today that 20% is a mistake, and that is why it is completely out of the question. At the same time, we know that until the end of the week we will have a registry-based population census, which uses the same data and should actually give the Estonian people a very clear picture of the situation, how and where we live, how we live, what our households are and so on, and so on, and so on, there are very, very different questions to be answered. As the issue is now a deep state, the question comes from this area. Is the kind of attitude where we are conducting a population census, which, according to your understanding, is within 20% of the local government level, and if we think about it now, probably the accuracy should be somewhere +/-50% of the population census, is it reasonable? Or are you not wrong to estimate that 20% is precision? Is there a deep-state hand in the game or some other mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U123	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U124	Thank you. It is really good that you asked here under the question of the deep state. In the case of granting all these kinds of automated subsidies, the question is whether we have one of those super-databases where everything is written, for example, how much electricity you consume, who you live with, what you mean. If we have tried to make changes to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, for example, because we have had a lot of concerns during this crisis in the exchange of data, it has found a very large confrontation in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We have not wanted to make any super-data base, but if we had it, where we have electricity consumption on the one hand, households on the one hand, incomes on the third hand, then surely there would be a complaint about why the state is collecting all this into one large database. From the census. In fact, the purpose of the census is to get these data more accurate. As far as I'm concerned, there's also a poll asking people certain questions, just to answer the data. But we don't do censuses all the time. As you know, a lot can also change in households during the year, for example, even if a student goes to another city to study in a household, there will be a change, you will not immediately report it at any time. So, yeah, I'm skeptical about creating this super database, and I'm skeptical about it solving all our problems. Yes, I agree that our services could be more automated in the digital state, so that it can be proactively able to communicate with citizens. But we're working to get these things to work, but we're probably not gonna do that kind of super database.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U125	Thank you. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U126	Let's move on to question 11. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa, which is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is the energy price crisis and solutions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U127	Thank you, George! Prime Minister! We may have a very different view of the reasons behind the sudden surge in electricity prices. I certainly cannot accept that it is normal that it is so in the whole world, I still maintain the view that the world has a fairly stable price, this leap has taken place here, and the big reasons for their leap are, in fact, those political decisions that have already been withdrawn from life and where both Stenbock and Brussels share the blame. But now we have to find solutions, and it's very tense. Basic solutions, solutions are offered through a great deal of bureaucracy for private individuals, of course businesses are in great trouble. We are struggling with doctors, schools, we are in trouble, rural tourism companies, especially tourism companies are in great trouble. And as Ahto Lobjakas said on Sunday on Kuku radio, that Kaja Kallas is an antonetic to the entrepreneurs instead of fishing, that unless you have bread, well eat the sausage then, take a loan! That's the kind of offer. But my question is that these day-to-day measures may indeed be temporary solutions; they cannot be long-term. What are the plans or wishes, or what are the political measures that are being taken in the form of decisions that are not day-to-day and that will ensure that we no longer have such leaps in the future and that will also help businesses, what are they really like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U128	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U129	First of all, the price of electricity. Once again, if I look at the price of electricity throughout Europe, even here external European prices, there is no way to say that our price is so much higher than that of others, but it is still pan-European and, in fact, p all over the world. Robblem. And again, I stress that in the last five years, domestic consumers in Estonia have paid almost 40% less than the European average. Business consumers understand the same thing: electricity is a very clear input price and that is why there is concern. These universal measures, which we have done more, are actually helping business consumers. Firstly, a 50% reduction in the electricity grid fee and, secondly, a 100% reduction in the gas grid fee, i.e. a zero reduction in the gas grid fee. This has a greater impact on businesses than it has on households, for example, because they have larger volumes. I have been talking about liquidity measures in this key so that we do not have this liquidity snowball, so that the payment of bills is in trouble, and that is why the next level will be in trouble, and this snowball can move forward. In the COVID crisis, KredEx had such credit lines, loan guarantees and working capital loans to help overcome these difficult moments. And, of course, in the long run, when we talk about long solutions, yesterday I talked about these long solutions here for several hours, I have received a great deal of criticism from you that no one is interested in these long solutions, not specifically from you, but from many members of the Riigikogu, no one is interested in the specific long solutions, but rather in the short ones. Long-term solutions are a whole series of things. Firstly, there is the creation of greater capacity for renewable energy. What is the main bottleneck, one is environmental protection and how windmills can function in harmony with nature, so that we create these areas. Secondly, sea wind parks where they can be built in order to actually have cheaper electricity and there were other solutions. With nuclear energy, to go further in analysis, to see if we can create this nuclear power here. But these are long solutions that take years. Unfortunately, nothing happens overnight in energy or energy markets. It's still possible overnight... I'm sorry! I'll keep answering if you ask me any further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U130	Thank you. That concludes this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your response. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U131	Honourable Riigikogu, we will begin the second working week with a Wednesday session, and now I would like to ask for a chair of the members of the Riigikogu who wish to pass on the drafts or inquiries. Please! You don't see that wish. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U132	76 members of the Riigikogu registered. Ladies and gentlemen, may I now ask your attention. We have a number of changes on today's agenda. First of all, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement on the security situation at the Riigikogu today's session, and therefore, pursuant to § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to the agenda for today's session and added the second item on the agenda. Now, on the first item on the agenda, which is the item we have not finished yesterday, the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is the chairman of the committee, Tarmo Tamm Ivari Padar, in front of us today. Our third item, sorry, fourth item, is the amendment of the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, draft law amending other laws 494 SE, where we have our first reading, there is Marko Storm, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur for the Commission. So these were the clarifications we have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U133	As I said, yesterday we were in the middle of a second reading of draft 439 SE. I now ask for the chair Tarmo Tamme and, in the order of questions, we had Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner and Peeter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U134	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We have teamwork in the Committee on Rural Affairs, Ivar Padar made the main report, and I'm coming to answer questions today. Unfortunately, the last one couldn't make it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U135	And we're going to those questions right now. Tarmo Kruusimäe was the first one to go without a question yesterday. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U136	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! My question is now regarding common agriculture... what do we have here? The implementation and the law, that's why. I understand the money that moves from one period to another. But to some extent, let's say, the risks can be spread out in the same way? And could the risks be shared jointly and severally with other Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U137	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, I don't understand what risks we're taking. This is the money that was allocated to the Leader programme during the 20142020 period and can be used in the new financial period. So this is a purely national procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U138	Heiki Hepner, please! Mr. Hepner's gone. Let's get on with the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U139	Good President and honourable waitress! I'm glad to see that now, instead of Ivar Padar, the real general has come to the premiere, and that is why I'm going to change my question a little bit. And my question is whether the money now earmarked for rural development is being re-played to advise farmers, there was, there is a Leader programme, which has been a very important instrument for rural development in rural areas and is, but the farmers' advice, advisory services, service is something else entirely. I understand correctly that this money for rural development, the Leader money, is now being re-played, if possible, to advise farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U140	Thank you. Good Peter! No, it's not. These are two different things: one is an advisory service for farmers and the other is the money of the Leader programme, the period of which is extended. These are two completely different areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U141	Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 62 of our Working and Rules of Procedure Act states that the documents on which the agenda item is discussed shall be made available to the members of the Riigikogu by the day of the hearing at the latest. We currently have the same 439 SE here, very short, but there are also references to a number of European Parliament regulations. Both in the first point and in the seventh point. I ask why, however, the full documentation that is actually the basis of this bill has not been brought here to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U143	Thank you. The practice of the Riigikogu has always been that a bill with an explanatory statement is being discussed in the Chamber. Where annexes are attached to the draft, the annexes shall be attached. References have never been added to the Riigikogu. If there are any references to one or other draft law, an apology, a law or an act of the European Union, these references can be found by members of the Riigikogu via the Internet. Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U144	I thank you, of course, for this answer, but the question now is that we are currently processing draft laws and, in fact, Members should also receive full information about these regulations of the European Union and of Parliament and of the Council, because they are, in fact, the basis for this law. These are not references, they are normative acts, and I still find it very incorrect that we are being directed somewhere in the internet to search for these documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U145	Mr Grünthal, we are already at second reading. It would have been appropriate for you to ask the minister who we had here at first reading. The first-reading debate is this, it is not a second-reading debate. The second-reading debate is what took place in the Commission and what has since been introduced by the Commission. And that is why there is only a representative from the Commission, then a review of the amendments and then a decision on whether the second reading will be closed or the second reading will be interrupted. These are the opportunities we have in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Okay, let's get on with the questions. Mr. Hepner has shown up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is, or whatever I really would have liked to ask yesterday, the link between this draft and today's green turn or Objective 55 objectives. We are extending the old development plan, and are the new green conditions that are likely to be agreed in the near future or will they not be extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U147	Thank you. We are extending the transitional period and, consequently, we are talking about the money that was allocated at that moment, and these conditions remain the same, this money can be used in the new period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U148	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U149	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! I understand that since the financing of the transitional period is being extended, we know that we are in an energy crisis and that agriculture is also in an energy crisis, and we know that dairy milk is being supplied with electricity, we have not yet been transferred to hydrogen. Did the Commission also discuss whether the money that has been left over today, and which is now being distributed, was being taken up to look at the fact that there is also an energy crisis in agriculture and in rural areas when we are talking about the Leader programme? Was there any discussion on this issue and, if so, what is specifically being amended and improved in order to get rural areas out of this difficult energy crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U150	Thank you, Aivar! Of course, there was no mention of this within the framework of this draft, because it does not relate in any way to this draft. But yesterday in the Commission, we discussed for two hours with representatives of the agricultural sector, where the Food Union was a representative of the Chamber of Agriculture, a representative of the farm union, precisely energy-related issues, but it does not relate in any way to this draft. So I can't answer that, because I'm representing draft 439 SE right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U151	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to this draft explains how the Committee on Rural Affairs asked a wide range of stakeholders for an opinion on the draft. And then there's the sentence that there were no opinions on the bill. Given that there are a number of very important and dignified organisations and agencies, including the Rural Development Foundation and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, how is it possible that no opinion was received on such an important draft? Did you ask the wrong question, or is it just a bill that cannot be commented on in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U153	Thank you. Any draft can be commented on, but this draft is so good that it satisfies all those interest groups that were approached and asked for an opinion. So this is not a fictitious question of opinion, they were actually asked. They all agree, and they represent the sector that we are all concerned about.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U154	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This draft provides for a separate measure for the follow-up of agricultural advisors. Why don't you explain why such a special measure is needed for this aftergrowth?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U156	Thank you for your question. Well, we all have to worry about the upbringing, be it farmers, where we have the support of a young farmer, the support of a young farmer was greatly increased during the new financial period. We are also worried that counselors will have aftergrowth, that in the future there will be such good people, who are well - wise and well - informed, who will agree with farmers. That is the goal of ensuring that this continuity is not interrupted, people are ageing, generations are changing, so in my opinion, a wise step, cautious, after all, there is no need to regret that it has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U157	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U158	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In answering one question, you said that we are extending the transitional period. So now that it doesn't get vague or confusing, I'm asking you what does "we" mean. Does this mean that Estonia will extend and that each Member State itself will be able to extend the transitional period, and this time may be different? Or is it already and certainly decided by the European Commission for all Member States in the same way? That's the first part of my question. The second part is that the text contains very different dates, which will be amended, this will be amended until the end of 2022, until the end of 2023, even by extending the end of 2026 to 2031 etc., and 2025 will be in place. What do they mean? There is no word in the explanatory memorandum for this, regarding the extension of these dates. What measures or things are they extending? Can you disengage?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U159	Thank you, Mr Helir, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. I read it out in text, I wouldn't have a lot of understanding. As a result of the transitional regulation, the legal framework for rural development support for the 2014-20 programming period was extended by two years. As a result of the amendment, the conditions for implementing the Leader project grant, the development plan financial instrument and the so-called part-time expenditure document scheme will be created in 2023/2025, in the same way as the conditions previously in force. The conditions currently in force mean that the conditions have not been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U160	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! It's the very sentence you read, that I wanted to ask you about. What does this mean for a so-called partly paid cost record scheme? Secondly, we are processing and extending this transitional framework. Does this need come from the fact that we missed the instrument and the funds were not used because we have such a bureaucratic system or because in reality there was no need for this money to serve these purposes? And if this is the last one, then the question arises as to whether in the next period, in the next two years, its content will arise. Is this a question of bureaucracy or what? Why did we not use these resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U162	Rather, the question is how to use this money flexibly. Clearly, some kind of money is used for a date and a fixed time. And if by then the Leader groups were unable to make use of their money, I think it is quite natural if we extend this period and they can continue to use it in the next period. This money will not be lost by Leader groups. I think that's a very good idea. In that sense. But it wouldn't be an end in itself if it was December 31st and then we... I remember that it has been the case with the municipalities and the state that in the last ten days all the ministries made such invoices that had no substance or justification why this money was spent in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U163	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U164	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, The Leader group is a network through which support was so far given mainly for the construction of villages and villages. In the process of extending this transitional period, is there any hope that there will be more support for small businesses from Leader measures in the future, and is there any possibility that this will also have a positive impact on our regional development up to 2025?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U165	Thank you, Helle, for this question. This Leader group is such a good group where it is not really decided by the Riigikogu or the government how this money is used there. He's setting some limits, but it's really up to the local community to decide how they use that money on the ground. That's what this is about to go to the roots. This community in the village, in the region, actually decides for which it will make the most use of this money. So this is the best measure, that it is not run or distributed from a high level of party offices, but these local interest groups and the active one on the ground share this Leader money. I think this is one of those very good measures to revive local life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U166	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U167	Good chairman of the committee! That it is not quite so easy for the government to send a draft and the Commission to say that exactly what this bill is, it will be! There is money left, so that the Commission could have made exactly the decisions that it wanted to make with this money. But maybe you, after all, the same suggestions for improvement, here is § 68 (6) and (7) and one is extended until 31 December 2025 and the other until 31 December 2033. Why don't you just read what we're specifically extending, what are these things, some parts of the text? It is still very difficult for a member of the Riigikogu to understand why something is extended until 2033 or more than 10 years in order to come up with suggestions for improvement, these things have not been unwritten in the explanatory memorandum. What is it, where did it come from? Perhaps you could still read that all of us, if we were to vote now, would understand what amendments were proposed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U168	Thank you. That if we don't trust the government, we should trust all those interest groups who were involved in the drafting of this bill. And there were quite a few. I'll read it to you. Agricultural Registers and Information Board, Rural Development Foundation, Estonian Agricultural Chamber, Estonian Farmers' Confederation, Estonian Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Association, Estonian Leader Association, Estonian Village Movement Kodukant. And they didn't have an opinion on the bill. And I ask you, if we don't listen to them and they don't count their opinions, I don't think I, as a politician, would do that, so that I don't listen to these interest groups, so why do we ask them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U169	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U170	Good vice chairman! Austet's chairman of the committee! I'd like to ask you for your last answer. If you say that we have to listen to all those interest groups who have not expressed their opinion in any way, how do we listen to them if that opinion is not there? But actually, I have another question. This draft refers, among other things, to the protection of geographical indications for spirit drinks. Is and how much this affects Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian companies? How many such protected geographical indications are there in Estonia? Can you give me some examples? And across Europe what exactly does that mean, what is this policy of protecting geographical indications?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U171	Thank you. That's a very good question. This geographical indication is, in fact, very important and, unfortunately, we have very few of these geographical indications, which are confirmed to us by the European Commission in comparison with Latvia and Lithuania and other countries. As far as I know, there are only two geographical indications at the moment: one is Estonian vodka and the other is a dyke, which has also recently received this geographical indication. This is very important for the regions of themselves. I remember, in the European Commission, a dispute between the Slovenians and the Croatians over a single wine variety which receives this geographical indication. So it's like a very important identity for the region and these people. This product can only be manufactured in such a way that all raw materials are sent from this region and so on. It's kind of a procedure in itself. But surely the people who have received this sign will win because it is an interest in this region and its product. But yes, unfortunately, few of these geographical indications have been applied for in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U172	Mr. Chef, have you had a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U173	I just didn't get a reply from the chairman of the committee. I asked what these amendments 3 and 4 really meant, not in the explanatory memorandum, why should any matter be extended until 31 December 2033? The second point is that § 68 (6) is extended until 2025. What are these topics that are being extended, which are so important for Estonia that they cannot be done in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U174	This is not a procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said yes earlier that this measure, the agricultural advisors, we say, is therefore, above all, necessary to ensure continuity and follow-up. But why don't you explain to me what these qualification requirements are for these potential advisors and whether any training is planned and how these trainings are organised and who are the trainers will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U176	Thank you. These are quite universal people, and I know that in your group there is definitely one such person, whose name is Merry Aart. If you and Merry get together somewhere, Merry can tell you more about what these counselors have to answer. But I'm saying these are very universal people and smart people. But I'm authorising Merry to answer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U177	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U178	Thank you, dear waitress. My question is probably not directly concerned with this bill, but for years there has been talk in the European Union about agricultural subsidies and that Estonia's subsidies are considerably lower than in many other countries and that we are still striving to achieve the same level. Where are we going with this drive, how far have we gotten by now, can you tell?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U179	Thank you. I can tell you, because I myself am very closely connected to this, I can say that in this new financial period from 2013 to 2020 we move closer to the European Union average by two per cent each year, i.e. we move from 66 per cent to 80 per cent of the European Union average, which brings our farmers hundreds of millions of additional money into the budget. That it's a pretty long process and it's very difficult to carry out. It makes sense for everyone to have equal support for farmers, but there is, first of all, the historic inevitable of what position we joined the European Union. And it is clear that if we want to improve our position, money will be taken away from someone else, from other countries of the European Union. Well, I don't know, for example, if the Latvians start taking money from us and taking away two or three percent and saying that the Latvians should get it equally with us, it's not that easy. But I can say that the countries of the European Union have solidarity and that all the countries of the European Union took away two per cent of the money, and then they distributed it on average, and five or six countries then got the money, and that is how they approached the European Union average. But the next government must also make further efforts, and I know that Urmas is in Brussels today or yesterday, and he also spoke there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U180	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U181	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will try to repeat my question so that you understand exactly. You answered one of your questions, not your question, but the question from this floor that we are extending the transitional period. And in the hall, people asked who this "we" is, whether it is an Estonian parliament or Estonia as a Member State that can extend on its own? This bill says two years, but can we get three and four? Does all Member States have the so-called sovereign right to extend themselves here? Or has it been presented by the European Commission? That was the question because you answered to extend us. And the other half is what Aivar Chef has already asked about here. This draft extends certain deadlines until 2033. And it is not about trusting organisations or not trusting them, but about what is being extended, whether it is a measure or a requirement. What will be extended until 2033?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U182	Thank you. Mr Helir, this is my answer: the two of us, of course, will not prolong it and the Commission will not have to. But I'll read what it's really like. As a result of the Transitional Regulation, the programme period 2014 was extended to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U183	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U184	Thank you. I would actually try the same subject once again from here that Aivar Chef, who asked this question, was in a bit of trouble, and I realized that Heliri's question was also in the air. Is this up to 2033, so I propose the option myself, this extension is related to some sort of supervision or something? It doesn't make any sense that we're just gonna run out of 11 years and we don't know that. Here too, until 31 December 2025, I understand that this is still related to the processing and realisation of specific applications. I've proposed a few answers. Could it have been or wasn't it, or was there a third option?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U185	Thank you. I propose that I represent the Commission, which discussed this draft between first and second reading, and this was not the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U186	Chairman of the good committee, no more questions for members of the Riigikogu. I'm opening negotiations. Merry Aart all over the place. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since, indeed, as Tarmo Tamm said, I am from this system, I cannot fail to speak here. There are two main changes to draft law 439. One is to make better use of the budgetary resources of Leader projects. Let me remind you that we have a transitional period and, since funds have not been used from the previous programming period, we have two options: whether we are giving up these funds at all or whether we are extending this period. The European Union has agreed to extend this period. Here was the question: why hasn't the money been used? There are quite a few reasons. There has not been enough investment, even in relation to the corona, but since these are Leader groups, or communities, there are not always people who write these applications, it is a social activity that is largely, not quite, but largely. In order to move over to the new period, Leader action groups must make their own strategic plans, which must also be approved. Those are the rules. Really, I believe that these plans will be approved in 2023, so the transition to a new programming period will not be possible until 2024 or 2025 easily. Since we have more resources, it makes sense to make use of these resources. And to that end, a round of applications will be announced for the money of the previous period. So it can be extended. However, the investments it achieves will not be able to be made in a very short period of time. So it makes sense to support the extension of the time limits for the implementation of the Leader action to 2025. This is good for the Estonian state and the local community. The second issue is the training measure for agricultural advisors, which is a measure to develop the follow-up of advisors, as is now called here. The agricultural advisory system, started to be developed in 1989. Since we had lost knowledge of the functioning of the consultative system, historically lacking knowledge, I can say that it was only in 2002 that we reached a point where we knew how the system should work and how to develop it. In 2009, the system already gave society something back. In 2010 it was decided to remove the functioning system from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce for political reasons. It was also offered to the University of Life Sciences, which dared not accept coordination for a number of reasons. Eventually, it was pushed to the MES. And from now on, I repeat the words of one of the producers that the advisory system was like a Bigfoot, everyone knew it existed, but no one had seen it. I'm not saying that the system is non-existent, but the system needs to be developed and consciously developed. The new advisors are very persistent and very many are leaving. There's an old frame, an old frame, I dare say. And this has been caused by the constant instability of the system, the constant shaking here and there. And it doesn't support joining the advisory system. No young person wants to come into a system where he doesn't know whether he can earn or not, how he can or cannot, whether there are benefits or not, whether he is trained or he has to train for his money. There's been a lot of instability here. The second amendment to this law is aimed at the sustainability of the consultative system. I hope that this good initiative will not be screwed up again by the implementation of the law. I would add that there are good people involved in the system today. I am not saying any bad words about these people, but they need national support, they need reasonable support and systematic support, not that we are doing the same thing today, tomorrow in a different way. To conclude, I would like to support this law both at this moment and at third reading. And I hope I brought some clarity in the context of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U188	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U189	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good colleagues in this hall, in your offices, and the people who are watching us over the Internet! Well, it's great, of course, when we're talking about these money, we want to talk about money all the time, but we're not talking about negative money, about the money we're getting out of. After all, my question was one for the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs: whether we will also get some of these risks in the common agricultural sector, or whether there are these risks, I do not know what is called rural, I know, there are aquatic animals in rural areas, and then there are aquaculture animals, and then there are aquatic animals that do not produce beautiful art, for example, but they are made of other artwork. Well, who figured it out, I still wanna talk about the same risk we have. I read last November, where the Environmental Board said that 82 bears could be hunted. There were 500 bears in Estonia before World War II. Now official data, which is official, says we have 1,100 bears. It's estimated to be 1,200. Hunters may speak, but they don't say very loudly, because after the ministry, gentlemen will be upset and maybe start with hunting permits... Unfortunately, in Estonian society, we do have one or two people reporting the threat until then, after all, it does not concern us. In Finland, about four or five health athletes have already gone. The Finns also have a nice picture, a cartoon, where hands lie on the forest trail with a stress clock and a bear goes into the woods and a stress clock reports that you have just lost 64 kilos. In Estonia, if we are going to find these bloody rubbers in the forest, then perhaps Estonian society will discover that where the bears are now. Bear is cute, how about a bear? Hunters talk, and I think it's from school, too, that if a predator is no longer afraid of man, then that predator is a threat to humans. That's because his games and his noises are something else. The predators are no longer our forest orderlys. Predators are exactly the same evolution as humans do, or they are lazy. Sloth is what goes on, because imagine if we weren't lazy right now, we wouldn't be sitting here, but we'd all be hauling sticks, looking for worms, and we'd be tripping. So when bears have already found that they do not really need to chase a deer in the forest, it is easier to go to a henhouse or anywhere. Yeah, right now we know that we're paying beekeepers support for a beekeeper who's been looted, that's not a big amount, that emotional loss is even greater, but only if an electrical barrier consisting of five wires. Five wires, otherwise it's usually three, but in the case of a bear, there's five. This investment simply, when the bears are in a row of noise, but they're just roaring through that electric cart, well then it's probably either the wiremaker, of course the beekeeper himself, and everything else, but not our Ministry of the Environment. I was wondering if there was any way to dispel these risks. At this point in Germany, there are no wild, wild bears. I think there are other countries. We have a good export product because, according to official data, we have 1,100 bears. We could at least sell half of this place and keep half our reserve. Well, we may not be able to have such a grand invasion of bears in Europe, but maybe start smaller, by 10 bears. Because farmers actually want to be calm, and then, if we've already gotten our backs straight for bears, maybe we'd look at other predators. In my opinion, let's say, spreading the risks that remain in the budget period across Europe, and that can really be done for two years, in this budget period, and if in the next budget period we see that bears are still breeding well and we keep throwing them the vaccine into the forest to make them healthy, then we can also send bears from Estonia somewhere else in the next period. And we have so many beautiful songs about bears, I think that many European Mediterranean countries may not even know what beautiful bear songs we have. So I think that if the Commission itself proposes that we get rid of these redundant bears, then I could also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U190	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! I'm not a counselor unlike Merry, I'm an ambassador, and every day I talk to farmers and advisors, and also in the context of this bill, I'm not so stupid that I think I know I'm asking wiser advice. But this bill 439 which he represents is a crazy rosolje written in a bird's language. When I heard the conversation between the two rural ministers here, I am talking about Mr Seeder and Mr Tamme, this is a debate in the high-pitched pilotage that is very difficult for ordinary people to understand. I'm not going to speak what language the bill was written in. Yes, until then, as Helir Valdo asked, either by 2022, 2023, 2033. Mr Seeder did not receive a reply, indeed our mere mortals, whether we are not counselors, former ministers for rural affairs. So it shows what kind of rosolje we're dealing with right now. Yes, Minister Kruuse already sent it on March 24, last year. The government came to the Riigikogu on 27 September. On the technical side of the matter, many of my so-called farmers' friends, whom I asked for advice, technical stuff, let it go! But they didn't get it either. I'm not going to read the names of those I've consulted. Yeah, a Bigfoot nobody's ever seen. We've seen Merry and we see him every day. But this group of counselors is, yes, indeed, as everyone ages, but what really is that the situation is unstable is also clear. But at the same time, these mouthfuls are gonna be thick enough when you become a counselor and get to the pump. But what I'd like to say a little bit without being my counselor. That Minister Kruuse has also said that there is a great deal of lack of training in the business plan, literally. Yes, but I asked the experts what they thought about it, and Minister Kruuse has said that there are new things that should be advised on the same launcher or the same emission stuff, this green madness, indeed, eating red meat, eating meat at all, is the devil. Go to Brussels, see what's in there, the posters have been hanging for a long time. Indeed, when farmers and I have many, many friends who raise these meat animals, who are the devil of carbon neutrality, because they use such poor food and their future is confusing and ask me what I should do with my meat animals, how sustainable is this thing? So these advisors are certainly needed, who are particularly able to give advice in the hysteria of green-crazy, so-called those who should actually guarantee our food security. So there is no doubt about that. Counsel is needed, and with the wise at all, wisdom is needed in the house, and there is no doubt about it for those who can share it. But there are doubts, there are doubts about what they are going to say to those who need help and whether this advice is precisely needed. I spoke to a prominent farmer, who himself has been involved in this matter, and what did he say? The reputation of advisors is exceptionally low. I quote: "What is happening in the field of advice is not worth commenting on. I don't see anything good out there. " And he says that the vision of the consultative system should be taken more into account, that is, those who do it and only then begin to share the money. And he asked if there really was a... Now, the question is, will it be six million in this two-year period... Yes, please! Whether it gets six million or how, this amount is extraordinarily precisely set at 20 cents, five million 622743 euros and 20 cents. Imagine how accurate it is! That's it. And another counselor's friend or acquaintance actually said that today's advisors are trained in risk management. But at the same time, he wonders if there is any help from them in today's critical situation. So the subject is important. But this whole package of 439 has really been presented such a true rosolje, which even the long-term minister of agriculture does not understand what is there, not to mention a profane like me, who, while communicating with farmers, lives in the countryside, but you others certainly are just like me. So in any case, good luck, but you could be a little clearer, so-called sober talk and answer questions. It's Tarmo Tammele's little remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U192	Merry Aart, do you want a procedure, or do you want a recliner because your name sounded?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U193	Thank you. I would say to the rejoinder that there would be no false claims or misconceptions in this Chamber. Feedback polls and feedback polls are constantly being carried out among all counselors, I don't know for the past year, but contentment with counseling is 90 percent off the line, so I don't want to say that advice is very low. The question is simply that there are few advisors, they do not make it, and there is no follow-up.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, If you hear your name during the negotiations, please use'speech' to register, because we keep separate records of procedures and speeches and speeches. Then we'll know for the next time. All right, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U195	Thank you, manager. I'll come back and find out. There were no amendments between the first and second readings, nor was there any discussion. I represent exactly what happened during the first and second readings in this committee. But I'm going to read to you what happened at first reading, and then we're going to learn this year's 2033. The draft paragraph amends § 68 (7) of the Act on the obligation of the Minister for Rural Affairs to determine the area, objectives and results of the use of funds that have subsequently been recovered from the funds and the authority responsible for the use of funds. According to the current law, the Minister for Rural Affairs must do so from 1 January 2024 until 31 December 2031. In the case of repayable funds, this obligation stems from Article 45 of the CPR, according to which Member States shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure the re-use of the funds to be recovered from the Article of the Regulation, including for the repayment of the principal and for profits and other income or income generated during a period of at least eight years after the eligible period. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the CPR, the eligibility period for expenditure for the 2014-2020 programming period referred to in Article 66 (2) is extended by two years until 31 December 2025 and therefore the starting and closing dates for the period referred to in Article 68 (7) of the Act should also be extended by two years. Therefore, in Paragraph 68 (7) of the Act, the reference to the period 01.01.2024 to 31.12.2031 is replaced by a reference to the period 01.01.2026 to 31.12.2033. I hope I have been able to respond to the good colleagues Aivar, Heliri and Peter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U196	Mr. Ernits, is it a procedural request or a rejoinder request? So we can settle this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U197	No. Yeah, I don't know if when my name was used, it's possible...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U198	Yeah. But next time, please, I just said it, then press "Word."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U199	Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry! I wanted to thank Mr Tarmo Tamme for his true reply in the language of the reply, which, frankly, the pig does not eat, as they say in the country, when someone starts talking like that in the back of the store or in front of the shop. I couldn't figure it out. And I think that if Tarmo Tamm retabled it, eloquently, or perhaps a colleague, one of our folk artists, it would be much more enjoyable to hear it. But I didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U200	The manager promises himself the comment that the manager heard the Estonian language, not the reptile language. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U201	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start from the beginning. The draft was prepared last March. Was there an energy crisis at that time? No, it wasn't. The bill reached the Riigikogu in September, from the government. Was there an energy crisis? Well, no, it didn't come yet. We're currently working on a bill that has millions of opportunities to use. When the chairman of the committee, in his speech a moment ago, read out the possibilities that the Minister for Rural Affairs can make with his regulation, which decisions can be made, it is not quite the case that we are only talking about the geographical indication that is Estonian vodka or Peipsi onion or something else. At the moment, dairy farmers are in a very difficult situation. They have not taken into account that energy prices could go to such heights as they are today. Yeah, we can tell everyone that you see, should have made a three-year fixed contract in September and everything would be okay. Well, if we were as smart as our husbands behind us, we would certainly have made those decisions. But many farmers, including those who had fixed prices, usually ended with a year, or 31 December of last year. And from 1 January, when they did at the right time, it's twice as expensive, but if they're still pussies, the January bills that come in February are not only twice as expensive, but much more. In my opinion, the task of the Riigikogu committees is to look at the current situation and look at the perspective and the future if there are any drafts that have the means and opportunities. Are the instruments that are now being reallocated going right? Will they go to Leader, as the Commission representative said, that Leader is the organisation closest to the grassroots that distributes these European Union funds, so I can always disagree a bit about it. If you look at the distributions of the Leader programme, they usually report in their region those who have gotten into the steering group to see if they have ever lost some funding, and they also get some others. Thank God that there is such a thing in the Leader programme, but in most cases there are training abroad, none of the management who wants to go anywhere is going to go there, not to support the rural economy and NGOs, but to something else. But I'm sure that's what I need. I say that this is certainly also necessary, because most of them do this work free of charge, and so their contribution to this programme will also be compensated. But come with a bill with seven suggestions for improvement, and in reality do not clear this up for members of the Riigikogu. One is the technical text and those who really do work in this area every day understand this technical text relatively well. But as one colleague said earlier, he does come to the country and asks farmers, but he is not always familiar with all these technical matters, they are not clear, so do most of the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who do not fully understand the technical text and speech. And even if an explanatory statement was written to the second reading and there were no amendments, it would not have been necessary to write such an explanatory statement at all. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U202	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U203	And when the third paragraph of the explanatory memorandum begins and begins with the words "the transitional regulation is due to...', the question arises as to whose transitional regulation. Is it the government, the ministry, the European Union or the European Commission? We understand that this is most likely a regulation of the European Commission, but then it will also have to be very clear. The other side is that, if it is clear that it is possible to use these funds in the longer term today, in what area, how much, for what and whether the current energy crisis has been taken into account, we do not count this out of this draft. One possibility is that the Commission might think once, call back and make these clarifications here. Of course, this bill is needed. We're not arguing. The extensions, if there is an opportunity to extend the year and the funds are used, are very good. But it always makes me crunch a little heart when they say that it is money from the European Union, as if it had come from somewhere else. No, it's our common money that needs to be used wisely. This is certainly very important for regional development in rural areas. But I would certainly like more and more to be looked at in such debates. Really, today, when you ask the farmers what's most important to them now... Today we are about to discuss another draft, something similar, with the idea that there is something in place in the administration and that we are going to make sure that there is a benefit or a cost and whether, in fact, it is important for those for whom it is done. I'm so sorry, we don't want anyone to pick or criticize. But a member of the Riigikogu, when he votes, pushes his green, red or yellow button, he must understand what he is voting for or against. That is why it is here where the first and second readings explain and answer questions. And if, at the end of the second reading, it turns out that there are things that could be better done, then there is always the possibility of coming, changing, correcting and making these decisions. But today, in a time of energy crisis, it is important to make these decisions, not somewhere to listen to nice stories that everything will be fine, even in 10 or 15 years' time. It is also true that until December 31, 2033, everything is fine. Tonight we'd like to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U204	Mr. Tamm, do you have a procedural or rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U205	No, I have a rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U206	But please, let's use "Word."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U207	It does not matter that the chairman of the committee is certainly not mentioned. I just want to say that there is one ideal situation where all parties are satisfied at first and second readings, both government, interest groups and politicians, and there is no proposal for improvement, they say that this draft is like crap. I don't get that much. But I say that it is possible for everyone to join the Leader Group. It's an open organization, it's not a closed organization, and it's not just about sharing money between its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U208	Okay, closing the negotiations. No amendments to this draft were received at second reading, which means that we can follow the lead committee's proposal, and I do not see any other proposals, i.e. the lead committee's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 439. The second reading is closed, and so is our first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U209	Our second item today is the political statement by Prime Minister Kallas on the security situation. Before we go to it, I'll show you how we're going to handle it today. The Prime Minister's statement is up to 20 minutes, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question to the Prime Minister and the representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. Madam Prime Minister, the Chair is yours. Before we can go to the call, Mr. Ceder has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U210	Yes, thank you! I have a procedural question. I see the Secretary of Defense is also in the hall. Does the Minister of Defence have a political statement planned? Does the Head of the Riigikogu know anything about this, or is he simply supporting the Prime Minister as a member of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U211	A member of the Government has the right to come to a meeting of the Riigikogu and participate in a session of the Riigikogu, either sitting in a box of the Government of the Republic or sitting there, usually where it is possible for members of the Government to sit when they report drafts, for example. So, yes, a member of the government has the right to attend a session of the Riigikogu. Madam Prime Minister... Mr. Ernitsa will still have the procedure. Mr. Ernits, you had a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U212	Yeah, I'm waiting for the bell to be quieter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U213	I can hear you very nicely, so please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U214	Yeah, yeah. Mr Seeder's comment that the Minister for Defence had come to support the Prime Minister on security issues, but yesterday we discussed as important and important a matter as the energy or electricity crisis, but I did not see the Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aasa, in the box. Can I read that Taavi Aas does not really support the Prime Minister in this first crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U215	It's not a procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, can we maybe now really go...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U216	Thank you. I heard here that the minister may be in the box or sitting in the back, but I remember that if Mart Helme was the Minister of the Interior and he was also in this Chamber, I think colleagues from the Reform Party Group, maybe even the Prime Minister, who wasn't the Prime Minister of course at the time, raised the question of why there were outsiders in the Chamber. I mean, if he came here to support the Prime Minister, but he doesn't have a word or a vote and can't ask him for advice, then why are you in the hall? What if he says so himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U217	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Rules of Procedure allow members of the Government to attend meetings of the Riigikogu. It's okay. It's okay. So let us not cause the problem that a member of the government has come to Parliament. Usually, the problem is that a member of the government does not come to Parliament. Now we have two members of the government, and you're making a problem of it. I would very much like to go to this substantive debate, not to discuss whether a member of the government is here or on a chair or whether he is present at a sitting of the Riigikogu or not. Listen, I understand that the media are all here, the Prime Minister is already in the chair, I have a sincere request that we do not deal with non-procedural issues here right now, and we can go to this subject, which is extremely important, which is the security situation. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U218	Thank you! I do have a procedural question. After all, we have a uniform law on the working and Rules of Procedure of a member of the Riigikogu, which should apply in the same way to everyone, but I see differences here. If there were some political parties in the opposition, the interpretation and application have been the same, and now that there are other parties, it has been a different application to how this thing should be. Do I misunderstand that regardless of who is in the opposition or who is in the coalition, the same rules should apply to everyone, or is it that if there is a Reform Party in the coalition, they have a different treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U219	Thank you. All members of the government and members of the Riigikogu are subject to exactly the same rules of procedure and home of the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U220	Yes, I do, and I do not want to delay this process in any way, but you said that a member of the government is in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and that is currently perfectly permissible. Again, how can I remind you, Mart Helme, that the Minister of the Interior was also a member of the government and why, in his case, was the question raised that he was an outsider in the Chamber of the Riigikogu when he was in the Chamber of the Riigikogu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U221	Thank you. I did not chair the sitting at the time, I do not know exactly how to comment on this particular situation. But once again, let's not make it a problem that a member of the government is in the Riigikogu, okay? I highly recommend that we go to a substantive debate and not argue whether a minister may attend a sitting of the Riigikogu Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U222	Good manager! I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister is being encouraged by the Minister of Defence in today's important debate. But yesterday, Mr Grünthal was worried that there was an outsider behind him, your security officer. Does Mrs Grünthal today have any fear that the outsider is also at the back of the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U223	Ladies and gentlemen, Well, really, well. After all, these are not substantive questions and procedural. Once again, yesterday I answered Mr Grünthal, I can give you the same answer today, Mr Ernits: the security of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister of the Government is guaranteed by the Police and Border Guard Board. The staff of the Police and Border Guard Board performing a specific task on a given day shall be selected by the Police and Border Guard Board. I hope that we have exhausted this issue. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U224	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would simply remind you of the situation, when the Minister of the Interior was in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, he was asked to leave here and was kindly directed up to the balcony, where he has a free chance. There's no way we're hearing anything like this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U225	Well, you know, we'll have to... I say again, I did not chair the sitting, and I do not remember this particular situation that I do not want to speculate here in any way about whether or not it was directed. As President of the sitting, I assure you with complete certainty that a member of the Government of the Republic may attend a meeting of the Riigikogu. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U226	Thank you, Mr President. I would, however, recall the first paragraph of § 58 of our Rules of Procedure that indeed, members of the Government of the Republic may be present in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but in that case we should deal with this situation in the same way, not in such a way that Mart Helme gets kicked out of this Chamber at one point and, at the other, Kalle Laane can be here as a minister. Besides, I don't see any reason why he has to sit there on the bench with places up here on the second floor, and yes. But the important point is that he has not been invited here to participate by the President of the Riigikogu, that here is like this speciality, which was then based on when Mart Helme was thrown out of the hall. At this point, I would like to know whether the President of the Riigikogu has now invited Kalle Laanet to make a political statement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U227	Mr. Grünthal! You yourself referred to the very right paragraph, I suggest you read this paragraph, then you will see that it states in that section that the members of the Government, as well as the President of the Republic, may be present at the sitting, as well as the Chancellor of Justice. And they're supposed to have fixed places. If they choose another place in the hall, for example, which is yours, then a member of the Government of the Republic will, of course, be asked to leave. If a member of the Government of the Republic sits on the seat that is intended for him, among other things here at my right hand, which are the seats of the Government of the Republic in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, it is perfectly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I can also assure you that if I had chaired the sitting at the moment that Mr Helme was the Minister of the Interior, I would not have driven him away because he is entitled to it. Mr. Grünthal, is there anything else that you're not clear about, or can we move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U228	I have a question, but in this case, if you now justify Kalle Laanet's presence in this very hall, either on the bench or on the bench at my right hand, will you admit that Mart Helme, as the Minister of the Interior, was then made too by the President of the Riigikogu at the time that he was driven out of this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U229	Please, let's stop this argument! Seriously. I told you what was written in the house and working order. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure allow members of the Government to attend the Riigikogu meeting. Period. Okay. That concludes the procedural questions. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, 20 minutes, political statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U230	Thank you. I must start by saying that, in this security situation where we are today, it is, frankly, incredible that you attach importance to what the Minister may or may not be in the Chamber. I'm here because the tensions in our region have grown exceptionally. I am with it today before you to talk about the dramatically deteriorating security situation around us and also to make proposals to strengthen security. It has been known for a long time that Russia is bringing its troops around Ukraine. It is accompanied by extremely aggressive rhetoric and threats. In parallel with Ukraine's threat, Russia has targeted its militant demands directly at us as well. At the end of last year, Russia made ultimative demands to NATO and the United States, the content of which is to divide Europe into spheres of influence and to break the European security order after the end of the Cold War. Russia is threatened by military-technical measures when it fails to meet its demands. We can all imagine what they are. Russia has made demands to halt NATO's enlargement. Russia has also made demands to reverse NATO's enlargement and essentially abolish NATO's collective defence from our region. We are now hearing clearly what we ourselves have been referring to for a long time. Russia's goal is to restore political and military influence over its neighbours. Today's negotiating tactics of the Kremlin resemble the three rules of Andrei Gromõko, former Soviet Union Minister of Foreign Affairs. First, demand maximum and don't be ashamed to ask. Requiring what never belonged to you. Second, present the ultimatums. Don't stick to threats. There are always those in the West who are willing to negotiate. Thirdly, in the negotiations, do not back off any lines. They themselves offer you some of what you asked for. Do not accept it, but demand more. They agree with that, too. And in the end, you've got a third or even half of what you didn't have before. Exactly according to this template, the Kremlin is still operating. Our task remains to make ourselves and our allies aware that this is Russia's goal. We must not fall into a trap that aims to attract allies to compromise the European security regime, even with small concessions. We already hear from here and from there the questions that NATO or the West should offer in order to de-escalate the situation. NATO has not created this situation. NATO is not going to attack anyone. And NATO doesn't threaten anyone. By making small concessions on the security arrangements in Europe, Russia has received something that it did not have in the past. We have reached the situation today because of Russia's long-term use of force and threats of force. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Russia has engaged in hybrid attacks against many Western countries in an attempt to break the cohesion of society and to distort democratic processes. On the pretext that NATO is threatening the security of Russia, the Kremlin has increased its military dominance across NATO's eastern border. We see the aggressive scenario of large-scale military exercises, which tricks the NATO Secretary-General to comply with international arms control requirements: "It is amazing that the country with the greatest military and nuclear capabilities in Europe feels threatened by the battalion of Ukraine or some of its allies along the border. " End of quote. In parallel with the military threat, we see the increasing repression by the Russian authorities against their inhabitants, i.e. the suppression of new and new so-called internal enemies. Of these, the most symbolic is the closure of Memorial International, which investigated the Soviet repression. The memorial was closed at the end of last year on the basis of a decision of the Russian Supreme Court on the grounds that the organisation was an external agent. The appearance of the case is illustrated by the fact that the closure was justified by the fact that the materials of the organisation may cause depression in Russians and threaten the health and development of children. Closing the memorial will trample the memory of the victims of communism. Obstruction of the investigation of mass crimes and the removal of their people from memory will create the ground for committing new crimes. In addition, Russia has a very effective tool to destabilise European societies, the price of natural gas. The main cause of the alarming energy crisis is the sharp rise in the price of natural gas. Mark Leonard has written in his book "Time of Non-peace" about how connections are addictive and how connections can also hurt the other side. That is why we have been opposed to the Nord Stream pipeline from the beginning and have done our utmost to prevent it from coming. Unfortunately, the building of addiction has progressed, and its results are felt in their own right. We suffer from high electricity prices, and our big neighbor claps his hands. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Moscow has made its demands. We got confirmation of what he wants. We are not giving in to Russia's demands to change European security principles. There will be no negotiation at gunpoint. This was confirmed last week by the NATO-Russian meeting, where the 30 NATO allies had a very resolute message: Russia does not get a say on NATO's decisions. Estonia actively worked to ensure that NATO spoke a strong and common language. However, there are no indications that Moscow is planning to reduce tensions. It is clear that we must be prepared for Russia to continue to escalate and to expand its military aggression against Ukraine. Given our geographical location and the fact that the demands that have been made are partly on us, we are faced with vital questions that determine the focus of security and foreign policy for the year that has begun. We must act wisely and decisively. The government has four areas of action here. Firstly, we are working to maintain a coherent and clear line in NATO. We talk to our allies all the time. We can have a dialogue with Russia, but we will not accept any agreement that will negatively affect Estonia's security or undermine NATO's collective defence. Secondly, we fully support Ukraine. The European Union, in cooperation with the United States, is in the process of developing a robust package of sanctions in case Russia escalates military activities in Ukraine. In addition to diplomatic and political support, Ukrainians need and ask for practical support to protect their country. To this end, we are working with allies and partners to provide arms support to Ukraine. In cooperation with Germany, we deliver a field hospital produced by an Estonian company to Ukraine. Following recent cyber attacks, we also offered support to Ukraine in this area. Thirdly, the protection and deterrence of NATO's eastern wing must be strengthened at a faster pace. Our goal is to have more high-ready troops and abilities and training plans for their use. Strengthening the collective defence of our region has also been the focus of my work. Last June, I attended the NATO summit in Brussels, where a number of decisions were taken in this area. NATO Foreign Ministers discussed further strengthening of collective defence in December and defence ministers in the near future. I have had many conversations with my NATO colleagues in this regard. We need to get on with this. Today, this need is even clearer than before, because we have no room for error in terms of deterrence and protection. Fourthly, Estonia's own contribution to security must also grow and grow now. We have talked a lot about our national defence development plans being long-term. They are. However, in today's security situation, we need to speed up the implementation of our plans and to increase the security facility immediately. After all, we do not want to be in a situation in a few months' time where, looking back at today, sentences should be formed starting with the words 'could have been'. No! We cannot take risks in the current security situation and, by asking our allies for a greater contribution to collective protection, we must also increase our activity. For this reason, I gave ministers the task of bringing together concrete proposals for the accelerated implementation of the National Defence Development Plan. Yesterday, we discussed proposals in the Cabinet. The government's principled agreement is to increase spending on a wide range of defences by EUR 380 million, so that we can act quickly and more effectively against both military and hybrid threats. We will increase the capacity of the Defence Forces to react quickly and will direct a significant part of the additional funding towards securing sufficient supplies, including essential ammunition. A significant additional amount will be allocated to non-military defence developments. Among other things, we will increase the ability of the Ministry of the Interior to identify and respond quickly to threats. We will strengthen border guards and the protection of the population. We will also improve the solutions for secure communication in the External Action Service. All these objectives are included in the current plans. The government's goal is to implement the plans faster than before. These steps are also a signal to everyone else that we take our security very seriously and are ready to act alongside words. Good Riigikogu! Perhaps some of you will be surprised, but I have not served in the Defence Forces. I haven't been on foreign missions. Nor have I won Erna's journey. But I have a great concern as a patriot, Prime Minister and also as a mother of Estonia. I see that concern on many of your faces. It's not fear, it's anxiety. I believe that the same concern is shared by a very large part of our population. In addition to my concerns, I see a lot of competent people in this Chamber, former military personnel, but also currently active defence allies. I have concerns about security in our immediate neighbourhood, and I am ahead of you in the hope that we will be able to continue our unanimous security policy together, the cornerstone of which is one principle since we regain independence: never again alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U231	Good Prime Minister, members of the Riigikogu have a number of questions for you. Priit onion begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! This is some sort of new level: if you had previously been in contact with Parliament through social media, then now the report you have made can be summarised before you can finish, read about national broadcasting. It is very reasonable that your concern has come to you, and I think Parliament is certainly prepared to support these proposals and to debate them. Sadly, while planning the country's budget strategy, your government planned a reduction in defence costs. Fortunately, this did not happen in the budget. You referred, and this news also says that you have a fundamental agreement with a coalition partner. Since we know that you are in constant negotiations on electricity compensation, do we have different negotiations to be held here too, or does this fundamental agreement mean that it has been approved by the government and is going down this road?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U233	Thank you. Yesterday, when we had a debate in the Cabinet, there was a principled agreement by all the members of the Cabinet. But we can make the decision in the next sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U234	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U235	Thank you. Because the security situation is fragile, you don't even have to be very smart to understand. I am asking you that, in the face of various crises, we will have a reduction in food production. We know that at the moment there is a food supply for cereals and milk, and perhaps for beef, as a one-off. But I would ask what is the knowledge of the Government of the Republic and the position to have sufficient food supplies if we really do have a crisis and we need it very urgently.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U236	Thank you. We have sufficient supplies at the moment, we also have sufficient supplies in a security situation. In any case, if there are any problems with these supplies, we can always stock up, but right now this part is covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U237	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U238	Thank you. It has rarely happened so I can say, Madam Prime Minister, I agree with you 100 percent. Today I am. But I was prepared to express my surprise that you are still coming with these well-known topics and the story we all read from the newspaper until the moment you announced that spending on the defence budget would be increased and that the implementation of the development plan would be accelerated, that is extremely positive. It's a good thing you've woke up at the last minute, as long as it doesn't happen the same as in the 39th that it was too late. That we have made these proposals repeatedly and repeatedly, they have all been rejected by your government so far. Well, let's keep going, but I want to ask you that the development plan we can speed up, but there aren't all things inside, there's no medium-range anti-aircraft inside, without which we're not capable of protecting our country. Have you had that in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U239	Thank you. The first step in medieval anti-aircraft is also one of the focus of the National Defence Development Plan and it is the construction of aerial surveillance and radars that it is one such specific thing. And as far as these anti-aircraft missile systems are concerned, we have also discussed them in the government office, but at the moment we are not planning this development simply because it takes a very long time when we are talking about procurement. And the financial side. This deadline is long, we are talking about these power gaps that we can do faster in this changed security situation and, unfortunately, this anti-aircraft capability is not fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U240	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you just said a little while ago that you shouldn't have to say later: you could have. As a former border guard, I will not miss this question, which concerns that our border guards have been deprived of their border protection task, that is, the capability of wartime does not have the border guard. This means that the Secretary of Defense has been very well involved in covering the border with military units at a certain time, but it will all take time. The whole system had previously been built up to have military capabilities on the border guards themselves. It's practically missing now. It would be urgent to resolve this matter and to bring the green border to the border, I will find, to bring it under the command of the Defence Forces and the training of the Defence Forces, just as you intend to do with the border guard fleet, you will hand it over to the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U242	Thank you. Indeed, starting from this rear end, then yes, by joining the fleets we are going on precisely so that the ships that are at the disposal of the Police and Border Guard Board are all at the disposal of the Defence Forces and it is clear that our borders are guarded both during peace and during war. Now, as far as border guards are concerned, I believe that this exercise, which was now only in the autumn, concerning the introduction of further barriers to the border, showed very well the cooperation between the Defence League, the Defence Forces and the Police and Border Guard Board, and in fact this cooperation must be deepened so that these things work at borders and border protection, if this enhanced preparedness is necessary, it will work. Fortunately, we do not have such a hybrid attack as we see on the borders of Belarus, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, but we also need to be prepared to do so, and therefore yesterday in the office we discussed, among other things, this cooperation between the administration of the Ministry of Interior and the Defence Forces, how to do it better in order to increase this capacity on the borders as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U243	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U244	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! In addition to energy, the Reform Party has been remarkably successful in destroying Estonian national defence. And among your victories are non-existent anti-aircraft, non-existent armoured capabilities and left-wing liberals have also been exceptionally successful in taunting our only military ally, the United States. Let's remember, four years of incessant insolence about President Trump. Not only did the ambassador candidate for Trump, Admiral Edward Masso of Estonian descent... you rejected. I will not even speculate on what military potential such an admiral would have been appointed as ambassador. In addition, Tallinn has such a margin role in DC, which also shows that there is no ambassador today. But my question is: how many minutes of life will the Estonian soldier remain in battle contact with the brilliant strategists of the Reform Party in a situation where the Russian Air Force owns the sky? [[Manager: Time!]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U245	Again, we are in a security situation that we have not been in since 91 and in 91 there was a general sense that we would stick together on these issues. I believe that everyone who has been responsible for national defence since our independence has made efforts to strengthen our national defence and has made very good efforts. In fact, in 2014, when the Reform Party was a government party, in the same way as the Reform Party was a Prime Minister party, the allies' allies came here to strengthen NATO's collective defence in English... forward presens. Since then, the allies here are and it is incredible that your party will then be charged as if we insult the allies, that, on the contrary, our relations with the allies are very good. So we have restored these relations after the insults that have been made, in fact, I personally have met the President of the United States twice and my security concerns have been discussed with him. And for your information, you're saying that we don't have an ambassador in the United States, that's not true. Estonian Ambassador Kristjan Prikk is in the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U246	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to correct that we are once again where the finger is pointed at the previous government and commended, although they themselves have also broken and damaged these relations. But I would ask you that in 2021 we adopted a law to create a reserve centre in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. To those who are monitoring the transfer, I would explain that the inventory centre is an institution that will manage the stockpiling and storage of vital goods needed for emergency purposes and take care to organise their deployment. My question is how the establishment of this centre has progressed and what stocks have already been acquired.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U248	Thank you. Yes, we did indeed create this stock centre to ensure that all stocks are managed on the one hand and have a complete view. The assembly of this stock centre from the surface of these bases or the surface of those reserves that already exist is going well. The food supply was already taken over from MKM, its management. The line's in the meds. And all of these stocks will be concentrated there in order to have a clear view and a guarantee that we will have these stocks at the right moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U249	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U250	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Reform Party for giving up, in your time, the plan to liquidate the military service that you attacked so hard. Otherwise, we might have 5,000 to 6,000 fighters on the ground, and now we're talking about tens of thousands. But my question is aimed at the internal defence reserve. In fact, when the new coalition came, the topic of the Internal Defence Reserve was immediately removed from the agenda. But now we see that it was precisely by unfolding the refugee crisis in our neighbouring countries that this would have been very and very necessary. The same is true during the current security crisis. You've noted the enhancement of the Home Office's capabilities. Didn't you raise the subject of the internal defence reserve? And if you didn't, I suggest you put it back on the table, because increasing staff is critical.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U251	Thank you. Indeed, the development of these capabilities also includes the enhancement of capabilities under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. And the Police and Border Guard Board will be strengthened, including in order to be able to react, for example, if we are to face a hybrid attack such as that of Belarus-Lithuania, Belarus-Poland or Belarus-Latvia. So, yeah, that's what I'm thinking. I am pleased to note that in fact Estonia's national defence is based on such a wide range of national defences, which still means involving different fields, not just the Defence Forces. The Ministry of the Interior is also completely inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U252	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U253	Thank you. Thank you very much for this presentation. I very much appreciate the determination of the government in this difficult security policy situation, namely raising the focus of a broad approach to national defence, which is important. My question concerns the draft law on preparedness. Have you thought that perhaps the process of drafting this draft could also be formalised at this moment, because it provides legal support and content for a wide range of national defences?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U254	Thank you. I also consider this law of preparedness to be very important and, indeed, let us see what are the obstacles that he stands for now in order to move forward with it, because really, as you yourself are bringing out, our good colleague, Johannes Kert, very lucky to have this subject, you yourself are very competent on this matter, so yes, to go forward quickly with it, and certainly we can work well together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U255	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U256	Thank you. Prime Minister! Mr. Secretary of Defense! I think that most members of the Riigikogu perceive and have felt the need for a long time to contribute more money to national defence, but only with money alone does nothing; it is one component, or tool, in this whole. My question to you comes from an area that we deal with every day in Parliament. When I was chairman of the National Defence Commission, we were always trying to find such a consensus on defence issues across the political parties. This has been considered very important in Parliament. How should we now move forward at the stage where the political statement can be made? Is this an extra budget question? How does this search for consensus take place in this Chamber? This is not a great victory or achievement of one party, or probably only of the government coalition, but, in fact, this need for strengthening national defence has been screaming for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U257	Thank you. In this respect, I very much agree with you that all political parties have also contributed, as I said, to the construction of this national defence. After all, discussions on national defence development plans have been very substantive by the Riigikogu. How can we proceed? First of all, it takes money to overcome the power gaps, of course. We can solve this 2022 within the framework of the state budget, but from there on the state budget strategy and the next state budgets actually require the support of the Riigikogu at the level of both the National Defence Committee and the Riigikogu as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U258	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U259	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! Of course, it is all very right what you said about our general security situation and the rather dramatic situation where the whole of Eastern Europe is now, but what I might have liked to hear more is these concrete measures, the concrete steps that are being taken for this 380 million. You said there was no anti-aircraft in it, but what are these specific weapons systems that are being acquired for it or capabilities that are being strengthened? After all, we also have one very serious concern about the protection of the civilian population. It has been said a lot that it is weak and that we do not have enough awareness among civilians of what to do, for example, in the air strike situation. We have not contributed to this. Is there a plan to deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U260	Thank you. That's a good question. On the one hand, I cannot go into the details here in public, as you know yourself that a great deal of defence is secret. But what I can say is that the same protection of the population, the protection of the civilian population in general and the associated plans are among them. This is actually what is meant by these developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U261	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U262	Thank you. Prime Minister! Since in the meantime you and this government have been accused of violating allied relations, I will read a quote. Martin Helme on 19 December on Tre's radio. "Why is Martin Herem preventing Estonia from developing its own defence capacity? For a very simple reason, he recently received the Order of the Legion of Honour from France. Everyone understands that the French have told us not to do your anti-aircraft, because if you have your own anti-aircraft, then you bastards may have the courage to resist Russia in a situation where we don't like it. Then we will no longer be on their mercy, and then we will not be blackmailed that if we do not allow gay propaganda and marriages, then Ämaris will no longer fly NATO planes, as Ilves told us. But if we have our own planes, honestly, keep your gay propaganda and gay marriages. For 25 years, under the leadership of Jüri Luige, the creation of an independent defence capability has been hindered. " How do you assess the impact of such a comment on allied relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U263	Thank you. Attacking the allies, insulting at the moment and not making any sense at all. As I have said, one of the fundamental principles of Estonia's foreign policy and security policy has been that it will never be alone again. If you attack others like that, you lose friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U264	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U265	Good President! Very honourable Prime Minister! Thank you very much, first of all, for emphasising the importance of this issue and the importance of this issue. It seems to me that we also have a media picture of many Estonians in the pool of all these crises, perhaps this security crisis has attracted the least attention. At the same time, there is the greatest danger. But in the light of the news about the additional investments and the acceleration of activities, is it also known whether our Baltic neighbours, like us, foresee any improvements and how closely you communicate with them on these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U266	Thank you. We are in close contact with the Baltic neighbours and, in fact, with other allies. I cannot say specifically about other countries whether they are budgeting for this, but I can assure you that we all appreciate this threat in exactly the same way. So I believe that our immediate neighbours are actually making investments and efforts to do this, too, and given that they have both been under hybrid attack, it has perhaps brought these things home to them even earlier than to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U267	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U268	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, for coming before us in this difficult situation and explaining plans. But I would like a little more clarity about our objectives in this crisis. Is it what we want to achieve that is calming the security situation, deescalation, conflict prevention, living in peace in this geographical area? If that is the case, I did not hear you mention one of our most effective instruments in terms of natural gas. Russia is only expecting long-term natural gas agreements, and so are the families and businesses of both Europe and Estonia, because we know that the current energy crisis in Europe is the result of the lack of these long-term gas supply agreements. I'm sure that part of the peace situation is missing. Of course, if the goal is to keep the tension, to impose your wishes with force, to do so with superiority, but I'm afraid that what you're offering now is not enough, then we would need twice, three times, maybe ten times more money...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U269	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U270	...to our military capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U271	Thank you. This is the trap, actually. This trap is that NATO has not created this situation, NATO is not threatening anyone, NATO is not concentrating its troops around Russia and it is not saying that we are going to attack Russia. This means that only Russia is escalating. Only Russia can be deescaled. As far as natural gas agreements are concerned, I disagree with you in this respect that my opinion is the opposite: we must reduce our dependence on natural gas as a whole, because, as I said, every connection you have, one part of this connection is in the hands of the other side, and if that other side is not your friend, they can use that connection against you. This is what we have seen in a situation where the price of natural gas is actually high and is under Russia's control. So in this respect, our visions may be different. Of course, our aim is for us to have peace in this region. But our goal is also that we do not go back to the security situation or to the sharing of spheres of influence that was in the Soviet era. It was a very valuable lesson and history for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U272	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We have a health crisis, we have a security crisis, we have an energy crisis, we have a big snowball here. Do you, Prime Minister, and your team, I was just thinking about the economic experts, are you thinking that if a higher one would give us something crazy, something military, that if it did happen, how to protect the Estonian economy, that already steps in order that if there should be something, that would already be prepared?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U274	Thank you. Currently there is no immediate military threat to Estonia's security. In this respect, if the situation should get so out of hand across Europe, it is not really a matter of defending ourselves. If we defend ourselves, we will also protect our economy and everything so that we can continue to live in the welfare that we have here in Estonia. So, yes, there are no specific plans for the economy directly, because this is part of the larger picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U275	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U276	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! I come back to this question again, that we are in society or that a group of people with limited opportunities has been created under your leadership, I dare say that we have almost 600 people made redundant or assembled from the Defence Forces in the last year. From the Police and Rescue Board, we gather people who do not vaccinate themselves in a situation where we actually see that vaccination does not result in the desired result. Do you continue to believe that these people should not be involved in the actual work from which we have freed them as a matter of urgency? We have always said that yes, that risk analysis and so on, as a result, they have been released. But don't you think that these people in today's serious critical security situation should actually be reinstated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U277	Thank you. Due to the presence of vaccination requirements in the Defence Forces, there have been very few infections and, as a result, the Defence Forces have been able to function operationally and have not had to act as they did last spring, when in fact people went out of line, went into isolation and therefore the defence capabilities did not function well enough. This has been a risk analysis and a decision by the Commander of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U278	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U279	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Thank you for this statement. On Tuesday, we discussed the support of the Riigikogu to Ukraine in this Chamber, and as a representative of the initiators, Mikhail Lotman, who said very clearly that our response to Russia must be: not afraid! I was very pleased that your statement carried this principle forward throughout, while this is the position, we are working to ensure that the allies hold this common position so that we understand Russia's tactics and do not compromise in any way. And I'm glad they're looking for additional resources for national defence. And the fact that it is not only about technology and equipment, but when we talk about broad-based national defence, some of it goes for the protection of the population as well. I would ask what the role of the Riigikogu could be. That if really security issues in this Chamber we are surprisingly united actually today, but Mr Mati Raidma asked about a specific amendment to the law, but are there any legislative changes or budgetary changes planned, an additional budget? What is the prime minister's expectation of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U280	Thank you. The expectation for the Riigikogu is that you will support these accelerated steps to implement this national defence development plan, that is one thing. The second thing is that if we really have budgetary resources to decide, I would also ask for the support of the Riigikogu. In addition to what would be expected, which many members of the Riigikogu have done successfully, you also have contacts with our allies, in the end it will all recede to human contacts, that Estonia is not just some place for anyone, but it will actually be people who will be protected by the allies, that, if there, this public opinion will be shaped. So I think that these contacts are crucial, communication with the public, and communication with foreign media are also crucial. These are all the things that Riigikogu members can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U281	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U282	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I've dedicated my best years to guarding the border. And the destruction of border guards by your predecessors is a major problem today. Bringing the Defence Forces to the border doesn't save anything, they don't have a review of the border situation. Your company has already done the honor of firing. I can't imagine how you're gonna go on, join Russia, can you?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U283	I am here today to talk about Russia's aggression, which is happening around Ukraine, and which has actually strained this security situation in our region. I described it, the dangers that are, and it's the picture that looks like it. We will strengthen the border guard, and all these reproaches, frankly, one or the other of course can always be criticised, but, in fact, what I call and what has so far been the principle, is that in this security policy we are actually united, even if we argue on other issues. So I would actually call on you not to blame, but to think along, because the situation is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U284	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U285	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Actually, thank you for coming in and making your report. But you repeatedly said you'd never be alone again. So far, we have felt that Germany has also been our ally, and it has been. However, looking at the current situation in which Germany did not allow the supply of British weapons to Ukraine through its airspace yesterday, and throughout the summer Germany has prevented the provision of arms assistance to Ukraine, we see here obviously indirect support for Russia. Obviously also with regard to the energy crisis and the Russian gas on which Germany is dependent. How can we continue to trust our ally Germany if it does not support our particular Ukrainian concept in its actions? Do you have any idea why Germany, with regard to Ukraine, for which everyone has a very clear position, is also doing so in Estonia and has it really become an ally to us in a security situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U286	Thank you. Germany is a great and strong ally. And just as I said that we have complete unity among NATO's allies, we have maintained a united position, I have no doubt in Germany either that they do not share that position. The new German Government, their coalition agreement, in fact, has quite such principles as have been important to us. So, in any case, Germany is a great and important ally whose motives I do not question in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U287	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U288	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! The international situation, the security situation is currently very tense. You yourself have now been communicating with a large number of Heads of State on this issue. But now, in view of the situation, this occupation of Crimea, since 2014, has developed a situation in which the situation is as already agreed, the situation is starting to stabilise and is being accepted. Here, too, the media at times give the impression that the United States, in its relations with Russia, is at times like seeing a flutter here, a soft compromise. The same situation may continue. And then I'll ask you. How do you think you can confirm that, if Russia, for example, takes a piece of Ukraine, the international community will take it unacceptably and respond to it? Or you could expect the same kind of reconciliation...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U289	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U290	... as you can see in the Crimean case?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U291	Yeah. In the European Union, discussions have already taken place on sanctions, so that economic sanctions and painful economic sanctions are included in the European Union toolbox if Russia should take the next steps. In any case, there seems to be a common understanding that such sanctions are necessary. I guess we don't want to get this situation, really, where they go, they take away some territory, and then they actually say forget about this territory, make sure they don't go any further. This is a little bit of this, like I said at the beginning, demand more and you get less. All these steps must be avoided first and, if this is not possible, they must actually be answered with the tools we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U292	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U293	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! I must congratulate you. You've had a very great performance today. But those are just words, the reality is different. In the anti-aircraft section of the Midlands, you said in the hall today to protect yourself with radar. But how can we resist helicopters that are circling over Tallinn, for example? With radars? I don't think so. Secondly, Estonia has wanted to give to Ukraine portable anti-tank systems Javelin and 122 millimeter howitzers, about which even your party partner, Ants Laaneots, said whether anyone in the Defence Forces has gone mad. And thirdly, why have we started collecting machine guns in the Defence League? How can it be said from these three components that this is a security guarantee and a strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U294	Of course, your mind flight is very airy. In this respect, all the plans that have been agreed across political parties in the National Defence Development Plan are those that we are accelerating. In fact, there are steps that have been pointed out, as have your own party members, who are very competent in this area. I suggest you ask all such military, military tactics questions to those who are experts in this field rather than to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U295	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Let it be said that I support your initiative, but I have a brother-in-arms in this military structure. He's a father, and I can see from the side that he's trying to be as good a father as he can be for his daughter, but it's obvious he's having a hard time doing it because, in fact, his salary here in the structure of the Defence Forces is not what it should be, and it doesn't allow him to play this role as well as he wants. And there are very many defence forces in Estonia that have the same concern. We often make this mistake when building the Estonian state, that we are talking about investments, that we are only talking about putting concrete or putting into weapons, but it is just as important for national defence that these people can also contribute to this national defence. And my question to you is this: does your vision, this 380 million, actually include the salary of these people, the wage increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U297	Thank you. In certain places it is related to wage costs, but generally the Defence Forces are trying to maintain relatively good wage levels. I could generally say that wages could be higher in Estonia at all. Fortunately, if we look at growth and wage growth, currently data show that wages in the private sector are growing by some 10%, in the public sector by some 7.9%, so it is actually positive, but, of course, wages could always be higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U298	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for this plan. This is a good intention, a good step in the right direction and I agree with your assessment. The bad news is there's no anti-aircraft. The anti-aircraft will ensure that everything we acquire and the critical infrastructure that is important to us is protected at the appropriate moment. And I don't agree with your logic that it's a long time and that's why we don't. On the contrary, the longer it takes, the sooner it has to start. But in general, it's the right direction and I wish you luck. I have a question. I was a little alerted by the expression "in the short term 380 million." Could you be more specific, for example, this year and what steps next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U300	Thank you. First of all, I want to say about this anti-aircraft capability, that we really have now been based on the fact that these are the urgent needs for capacity development that we have. If I look at this development of anti-aircraft systems, it will take three to five years, plus the long-term training of staff, which must precede it, and infrastructure development. And therefore, in the current accelerated plan, it simply does not exist. And we're talking about the amounts in 2022 to 2025. How exactly does it divide and what are these sources, then we will confirm that in the government, this is the initial decision of the cabinet on these capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U301	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U302	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Thank you for this statement and for the lack of fear and courage you are injecting into us. But my question is that, as we know, the basis for national defence is total defence, which includes not only the readiness of the Defence Forces, the Defence League, civil structures, but also the moral, physical and economic readiness of the entire nation to resolve and respond to crises. What do you recommend to every person in Estonia, how to prepare your spirit in today's situation? My grandmother, who had survived several weather wars, always said that there must be supplies of sugar, salt and matches and stoves and stoves at home should not be broken out. I think a lot of people who heard this statement today are gonna get confused about what they're supposed to do? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U303	Thank you. Now, when it comes to stockpiling, the Women's Home Guard has made an app like the "Be Ready" app that actually provides guidance on what should be done and it is very good to use. I suggest that we use it, but what I want to say again is that we have to be concerned and we are worried, but we do not have to be afraid, at this point, there is no immediate security threat to our Estonian security. But indeed, we must prepare for this at national level, so that this threat does not come and in case things get worse, we are already prepared for it. Given that we have suffered these different crises mentally too, it is very difficult and this level of anxiety is very high, be it electricity prices or the COVID crisis. That is why this security crisis is hitting us as people at a very bad time, but is it ever really a good time to maintain peace, fortitude and then watch this Women's Home Guard app?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U304	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Since we are now in a situation where Estonian soldiers and Wagner's mercenaries, together with their brothers in arms, are fighting for the benefit of the Malian regime, I wonder if this can be considered an ethical and normal phenomenon. Do you think our soldiers and Wagner will be fighting somewhere else in the future? And the last one is: why did your government easily withdraw from its promise to leave the Malian regime when Russian mercenaries arrive there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U306	Thank you. It is always in Russia's interest to divide allies, but it should not be in our interests. If you play against each other and if, in fact, with a small step, where mercenaries are being sent, the allies are actually running apart, then Russia has in some ways achieved its goals. So there's no way to frame it like you do, that we're now fighting with Wagner's soldiers. It's not like that. We're fighting and we're in Mali with our French allies, our other allies. And ensuring Mali's peace there is just as important to guarantee security in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U307	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U308	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Yes, we must not be afraid, and this confidence must be instilled in our people by the Prime Minister in your person, the government and the Riigikogu. However, society is broken by the corona crisis, the energy crisis and the security crisis have devastated us all. And in solving the problems, we'd rather disagree, even in this Chamber. My question is almost exactly the same as my colleague Margit Sutrop, but I will then give the opportunity to respond from a slightly different point of view. Is today's government united in this tense situation and in the search for solutions to problems? How do you see the role of each member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U309	Thank you. Indeed, these tensions and frustration have increased with various crises, and we all know them on our own. Similarly, there are obviously tensions in all collectives, even perhaps families, and there are disputes about different solutions in the government as well. It's actually customary. Some times are more intense than others. So, yes, we hope that we can, as we always have, resolve our disputes and ease our tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U310	I can't see Kaido Haevalson in the hall right now, so Peter Ernits will be the next to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U311	Good President and Prime Minister. I'm glad to see Secretary of Defense Laane is protecting you here today, unlike yesterday. And thanks to this, I ask that Minister of Defence Laane was published quite recently in Postimees with a story titled "EKRE has made it its goal to break the Estonian defence will." And that's the long story. And I now ask that if we want to act together and be united here and your Minister of Defence, sitting behind the mask, it is said that the EKRE has committed itself to breaking up the Estonian defence will. Do you share the Minister of Defence's position or what it's like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U312	Thank you. It is funny that I constantly get reproached in written and oral form, that ministers are not at all seen in the Riigikogu, and then, when these ministers are here, there is another problem about why these ministers are here. So decide which way is it. But as far as the Minister of Defence is concerned, since the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act also gives him the opportunity to appear before the Riigikogu, we have agreed that he will submit a reply at the end by the government. That's how we have a division of labour, it has a perfectly clear task here, and that's how we work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U313	Since Kaido Haevalson is still not here at the moment, Raivo Tamm asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U314	Thank you! Prime Minister! You introduced Gromüko's teachings about negotiations to demand even what has never belonged to us, to present ultimatums and not to back off any lines. There's always someone in the West who's willing to negotiate. In the light of this teaching, I wanted to ask about the great desire of our government to move forward with the ratification of the border treaty. In today's security situation and based on these Gromüko proverbs, how has the government progressed in this plan? Do we want to move forward with the border agreement, even though somebody gromycan wants to get something else that never belonged to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U315	Thank you. Border agreements have been negotiated and the conclusion of a border agreement or an apology! It is in Estonia's interest, in fact, to ratify it as much as it is in the interests of Russia. It is for this reason that there is a clear agreement on where our borders go. There have been consultations at technical level at the moment, but there is no wish in Russia to move forward with this border agreement at the moment, as far as I know. So since the agreement has been that these steps will always be taken together, we have not taken these steps at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U316	Now, for our good assistants, a little bit of clarification that I received a message from Kaido Haevalson that he would give up his word. So the next one is Jaak Juske, and we can take down Kaido Höökelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U317	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! It is undoubtedly commendable that the government has proposed proposals on how to quickly improve Estonia's independent defence capabilities. And I suppose we can discuss here in Parliament whether this is enough, perhaps there is something more that we can do. At the same time, no doubt, as you said very rightly, strong support from the allies is also important. Can you and how much can you open in front of us now what measures NATO is planning to improve deterrence in Estonia at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U318	Thank you. I guess these discussions are under way with the allies, and it is our desire to strengthen this anticipatory attitude to the east wing. What it really means is, in essence, it always means that we want more allies to be present here just because then it is clear that an attack on one is an attack on everyone. But yes, I can't open any more. The Danes have already sent additional people here, but these negotiations are ongoing and there are agreements between the allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U319	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U320	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to congratulate my daughters on the creation of such an organization 90 years ago. Estonia is in good hands. But I would base my question on your presentation, where you said that when talking to many NATO colleagues today, you have realised that the situation is serious. Four months ago, when we referred to the threat, just the geopolitical situation there is not such that someone is playing solo, but is still allies and non-allied, we were referring to the threat and you said that there were no signs of danger. From this I conclude that you have not misunderstood, but that the people, your colleagues from NATO, were very complicated four years ago, so no information was received. How many of them have changed in this four months, these NATO colleagues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U321	Thank you. Please don't twist my words! I have not said that I have understood the danger when talking to NATO colleagues. No, of course we have our own institutions, we have actually dealt with this situation since the middle of last year, because it has been increasingly worrying, so we have a complete awareness of the threat. What I have said and emphasised today is that there is no immediate threat to Estonia's security today. There is no immediate threat to Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U322	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U323	Military threat, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Today, there is news from public sources that Estonia is now obtaining 500 Spike SRs, or two kilometres of firing range, which I think is very positive news. You didn't mention a word about it. Is it part of this 380 million extra program or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U325	Thank you. I mentioned ammo, it's both large and small.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U326	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U327	Prime Minister! Good manager! A little funny today, before you guys started talking, we were able to read what you were saying about the ERR. And from us, of course, your advisors texted me and asked me how you liked it, I said I haven't heard it yet, and I haven't read it exactly at the ERR either. But what we mean is that nine months ago during the press, a decision was made that defence forces, police, border guards should be reduced and cut from all sides. On Monday, we met with the border guard and police chief, Elmar Vaher. He said that 300 people were laid off from the police, of which 50 were members of the brass band, and 150 were those who had never been hired before. And now you're talking about 380 million. I understand that it is not that, as you do not want to use this money, you think that the next governments could spend it in the coming years. This year's budget does not have such a number and no additional budget has been brought to the Riigikogu either. Let me get this straight. This 380 million is meant for the next governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U328	Thank you. This 380 million is meant for Estonia. That, in this respect, we have such a security situation that every possible procurement in national defence takes time and it must be clear that it also has resources in the state budget. Yes, it concerns the budget for the coming years, it concerns the state budget strategy. But it also concerns the year that we can already do this year. So, in this respect, it is necessary not for governments individually, but for Estonia's security to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U329	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U330	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! My first part of the question would be, Madam Prime Minister, that you said that there is no immediate threat to Estonia. But I think it is extremely important, just as it is for us, as well as for the real diplomat... the public is watching to find out what the government's threat assessment is in the current undoubtedly security crisis. What is the risk assessment for Europe, NATO and the Baltic States, including? And secondly, I would like to ask for a description of this EUR 380 million. What years will these commitments be made? How much, and to what additional military capabilities does this money go to? And how much of this goes on in the ammo, and there was still, I imagine, smaller things like the security of the External Action Service?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U331	Thank you. You have been a member of the government yourself, and you know very well that I cannot open all these precise details here, and I cannot open a threat assessment here either, introduced in closed rooms. Therefore, I have the suggestion that, since you also have such opportunities in the Riigikogu, invite the people who will present you with this threat assessment, and you will be in the same picture. Although I think it's done to you all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U332	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U333	I'm sorry! One more thing. There's no immediate military threat, I said yes. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Yeah, I can't publish that here, you can... [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Yes, I cannot publish it here now, and I cannot unravel it, especially given that the Cabinet has made a fundamental decision and that the formalisation of the decision in particular will remain for the next cabinet sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U334	Mr. Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U335	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! You have repeatedly said in your report that there is no immediate military threat to Estonia. Can you tell us that there is no immediate military threat to our southern neighbours, Latvians and Lithuanians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U336	Thank you. Both Latvia and Lithuania are still under a hybrid attack on Belarus, so they are in a slightly more difficult security situation than we are. We don't see this pressure on our borders right now, which doesn't mean it can't change in days. So, yes, if the hybrid attacks are part of this whole bigger picture, and that is undoubtedly what they are, then they are in a more difficult situation than we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U337	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U338	Thank you. Prime Minister! When the bread ran out of the closet, hunger came to the house. It characterises the activities of the current government and also characterises security policy. When we prepared this year's budget, the issue of national defence was very acutely raised, and I also spoke to you several times in briefing and in writing, concerning Estonia's security, threat assessment, faster border building, strengthening border protection and so on. And you said, there is no need to even place temporary facilities on the border, and there was no talk about the budget for this year, which started a few weeks ago, there was no additional defence expenditure or any initiative from the government. Now you have come to understand that this should be done, and you will, so we will read about the media before we hear from you in the hall and you talk about broad-based cooperation between political parties. Would it not have been more reasonable to do so through the Commission, also by involving other political forces, that we really look at this problem together? Why are you also turning security policy into a propaganda ward?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U339	I'm sorry! This complaint should certainly sound not in my direction, but in the direction of another party. I am very sorry to actually see that the Fatherland, who has always stood...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U340	Mr. Seeder! Mr. Seeder! They're answering you right now. Yeah. Well, then we also ask Mrs and Mr back to listen to the Prime Minister's reply with Mr Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U341	I am very sorry in this respect that the Fatherland, which has been very committed to this defence policy and defence, is now taking this attitude and trying to make it political in some way. Only recently did we have a meeting with the National Defence Commission at the Peace Court House. We have also talked about these issues, we have talked about this threat assessment and all of this, but obviously we need to make maps quickly, what we can do, what we can't do, and make decisions quickly. It has to be the government anyway. So, of course, I am ready to discuss everything, but this has already been agreed with the Riigikogu, because it is a national defence development plan that we are just accelerating.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U342	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U343	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! I was also present at this meeting of the National Defence Committee, and I have to admit that there was no mention of these amounts, nor of the division of priorities. However, I commend the government for this step. It should also be said that this is really a step in the right direction. The only question is that maybe we should have taken a longer step and done it a little earlier. But I would still come to that 380 million and to the country's budget strategy. You have repeatedly avoided telling me how it could now be divided in the years to come. However, now that you have negotiated with the coalition partner next week, have we been able to fix it, do we still know how these percentages are divided in the country's budget strategy? Will they continue to be 2.0 and then be decided ad hoc...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U344	Good questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U345	...or they're still 2.3...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U346	Good questioner, your time. We have to consider that one minute is the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U347	Thank you. I wouldn't miss that percentage at all. This percentage seems to be some kind of important number, but I would point out that if you go after this percentage very badly, if there is growth, then all investments will fall. Therefore, it may still be reasonable to talk about what we are doing, how much we are betting, so that it is enough to overcome these power gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U348	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U349	Thank you! Prime Minister! I am certainly of the opinion that today's security policy situation is very serious and that is why our debate on this issue in the Riigikogu is certainly very welcome, so thank you for that. I agree with you on our allies, on maintaining and strengthening them, and also on further contributing to our defence capabilities. However, I cannot agree at all with the other side, which you constantly tend to forget, and as yesterday's discussions and the last days on energy issues show, in my opinion you do not take seriously enough what it means to have possible internal tensions and what kind of cards it plays in the hands of our foreign enemy. But my question is because of one of the previous answers. You said that there is no immediate threat to Estonia, while we are here today to discuss an emergency statement by the Prime Minister. What about whether our good situation is serious or not serious?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U350	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U351	Thank you. Our security situation is very serious, and I also agree that there are a lot of tensions in society. Tensions have increased in connection with this protracted health crisis, which unfortunately continues, tensions have increased in connection with the rise in electricity and energy prices, and it is very bad that really the tensions in society, if we are in such a tight relationship with each other, it is certainly more pleasing to our enemies or to those who do not really think so positively that Estonia can cope with all these crises. So I think it has to be borne in mind that these tensions, of course, must not be escalated nationally in any way. We are also trying to mitigate these tensions with various mitigation measures, but here, of course, all of us have a role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U352	Prime Minister! Thank you! No further questions. Now we move on to negotiations, open negotiations and ask Marko Mihkelson, representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U353	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this very important raise in the Riigikogu! To be honest, I do not recall the last time the Head of Government appeared before us specifically on matters relating to security policy. But the reason the Prime Minister is doing this today is obvious. In such a difficult security policy situation, more precise in the security crisis, Europe as a whole has not existed since World War II. One might say that there has been a lot of debate here with the idea that where we should go back from today to compare what is happening to us today, and with us, I mean not only Estonia, but also our allies and our relations with Russia. It will then be more comparable to the 30s of the last century than to the Cuban crisis or to the end of the Cold War. In fact, there is a situation where our neighbouring country, including the conventional military force, or at least threatening it, is trying to change the security regime throughout Europe, trying to create new zones of influence, is directly trying to threaten the destruction of the democratic state of Ukraine, for which they are currently gathering and blackmailing their military forces at borders throughout the world, actually the Western world, above all, to abandon their principles. I think that this debate, which has been launched here today, I believe, will lead to the fact that, regardless of whether we are in opposition, in the coalition, which views we represent, we are actually working to ensure that the security of our Estonian state in today's changing environment. Here someone asked how dangerous it was, I think Indrek asked, I would say in this way that as long as there is a real threat to our security in Russia as long as there is a thought of restoring the empire and they are doing and actually acting for it, including by using military force, as we have seen in Georgia, Ukraine, elsewhere, and in the meantime, we must do everything to ensure that the security we create by contributing to our own defence capabilities is credible for the opponent, that it would be credible for our citizens, that it would be credible for our allies. For it is clear that if we do not contribute to the promotion of our defence capabilities, it will also be very difficult to ask our allies, whether closer or more distant, for such help. That is why it is very important that, from the subject of today's debate, also in the discussions on the foundations of security policy, which we are currently looking at, whether or not we are looking at them, we would be focusing on, perhaps not whether the new floor should be two commas of four to five or six per cent. But it is clear that the powers that we are creating today, including the air defense powers that we are going to create and it would be good if we were to do this with our allies, above all the Baltic allies and the United States of America and others. All of this requires that these fixed costs of acquiring modern weaponry undoubtedly raise the floor in which we are prepared to invest over the next few years. I think that Estonia cannot lag behind, for example, Lithuania, which has agreed politically at the level of all political parties, that their defence costs will rise to 2.5% by 2030. But I agree with the Prime Minister that it is important not so much to look at numbers, but to the abilities or abilities that we ourselves are capable of creating in our own independent defence capabilities, but we have shown in 30 years that we are capable of creating from scratch a very combatable, protective Defence Forces. Secondly, cooperation with our allies, especially the United States, with others, is certainly very important in order to raise this deterrent now and now and immediately in our region. Political and diplomatic cooperation in Estonia-Latvia-Lithuania is extremely important. Finally, of course, in all the possible war scenarios that are now being spoken of day by day in relation to Ukraine, the only way to save the Ukrainian state, its democratic state, from its destruction is that we must help Ukraine not only by words but by acts and what the Estonian Ministry of Defence has also proposed in terms of supplies of real defence weapons, in terms of donations, is extremely important. The same should actually be done by other NATO allies, as the United States and Great Britain have already done. But once again, I believe that this debate today will create the ground for such a greater common sense in our future debate on security and defence policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U354	I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaak Juske. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U355	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Secretary of Defense! Honourable Riigikogu! In the long view of history, we have lived in the golden age of Estonia in terms of security. We have done everything to ensure that Estonia is never left alone again: we have strong allies, we allocate exemplary 2.3% of GDP to national defence, national defence has been an area that we have developed through decades with a cross-party consensus. But it's not enough today. Our neighbour, Russia, has been violating international law for years and partly occupying its neighbours. All signs show today that in the coming weeks the Kremlin is about to launch a new campaign against Ukraine. Recently, we saw a new chapter in the hybrid war on the borders of Belarus, Poland and Lithuania. The war has reached our immediate neighbourhood. The risk is also perceived by otherwise neutral countries such as Finland and Sweden, which significantly increase their defence budgets and readiness. The old truth is, if you want to keep peace, prepare for war. Analysts believe that after Ukraine, the Kremlin's next target could logically be Baltic. Putin's goal is to test NATO's credibility sooner or later without having a bigger war. We need to be ready for this scenario. The 30s of the past century showed that the Estonian state will not survive alone. But from then on, you can also learn that you must not give in to an aggressor. Showing weakness only gives him a boost. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the most important thing for Estonia is to maintain allied relations, but also to remind its Western partners that agreements with Russia do not guarantee peace. One side abides by these agreements, the other side does not. Following the occupation of Crimea, NATO significantly increased the deterrence of the Baltics. We have to do it again today. At the same time, Estonia must urgently strengthen its independent defence capability. Greater investment will be essential here in the coming years. It is very good that the honourable Prime Minister has come to the Riigikogu today with the corresponding initiative of the government. The Social Democrats support this initiative. At the same time, it is very important that all these decisions continue to take place in the future, not in the Cabinet of the Government, but through a cross-party consensus. But what's the most important thing? As a good colleague, Indrek Saar, said in his speech yesterday: we can spend ever greater amounts on national defence. However, if we do not keep our own courtyard in order, all of this will be of little use. After all, everything begins with the will of our own people, which is directly linked to their trust in their country and their government. If the government leaves a large part of the population alone on a cold winter moon with large heat bills, it will destroy our small society more than any Kremlin propaganda attack. But the Prime Minister didn't tell us about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U356	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U357	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Good Kalle, you made it today. I only agree with you, good Prime Minister, the first part of your entire speech, where you described the situation where we are that it is very serious. And it's clear that we have to work harder. And this initiative to add 380 million euros to national defence over the next four years is only to be welcomed. This is the same as we proposed in the 2035 amendments to the strategy that we are raising defence costs to 2.6%. In essence, this will increase to 2.5 to 2.6% if the measure is implemented. And I was also critical of the development plan that we cannot draw it up in this security situation within a framework of 2%, but that we must increase that framework. And now we're actually doing it, and it's a positive development. But now let's take a closer look at what we should do in detail. Clearly, this package of measures you are planning should divide it into two. First of all, the immediate measures that we should take this year. And for that, too, we really need an extra budget. How much is that, one quarter of it or a little bit larger, you should decide that from now on. But it would basically include ammo, mines, anti-tank equipment. I realized that, Madam Prime Minister, you didn't talk much about it yourself, but I would once again stop at the same Spike LR, that is to say, the two-kilometer anti-tank deal for one-off rocket shots going to both the Defence Forces and the Defence League units. This is precisely one of the measures that needs to be taken now, because it will significantly increase our anti-tank capability. Let's say every other rocket in the war hits, that means 200-250 enemy armored vehicles have basically been destroyed and it's a weapons system that every fighter can handle and that can be taught very quickly. This type of decision should be included in this package of immediate measures, which will then be taken immediately this year. This, of course, as I mentioned, would require an extra budget or an increase in government reserves, so how can you see better? And the other half, of course, from here on out is what we do in four years, what kind of power development we can do, what we need. Here, of course, there should also be some kind of division right now, which then this 380 million will become military defence, which would become internal defence, and which would become other ministries for the implementation and development of broad-based national defence. Take the Ministry of the Interior, for example. The Ministry of the Interior has an elementary need for four years to complete its basic national defence tasks, i.e. an internal defence reserve, strengthening the border, it is 80 million in four years. It's only 20 million a year, it's not some mysterious amount they've given themselves, and, of course, in the framework they're in now, maybe they had a proportional cut and they're just thinking about survival, they're not quite able to carry out these tasks. This should be done because it is clear that this military conflict will either begin or be accompanied by an armed internal conflict, where border guards and police will be the first in the line of fire. And then, of course, other ministries, maybe what kind of supply center could they do? But military defence, of course, is still the most important thing. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U358	Three minutes? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U359	So what can we do and can we do? If we look at these power gaps, then, of course, midland anti-aircraft is the first thing we've talked about and the National Defence Commission has also written to the Government of the Republic that we should do so. We should do just that in terms of kinetic capabilities, in particular weapons systems, missile systems, with which we can shoot down enemy aircraft. This continues to be the greatest power gap. We have a consensus in the Commission, including among the Commission's fellows, that it is important and that it is important, and obviously the same can be confirmed here by all other retired generals, especially those of the air and air forces. We should not delay this, because it is the case that this cycle is four years. If we make this decision now, we will achieve some kind of result by exactly the same year 2025. And, of course, it makes sense for us to try to make these decisions together here, because this decision in itself would affect not only this government, the current government, but also the next, perhaps the next. Here we should move towards a greater sense of cooperation in order to make these decisions. Of course, we have problems elsewhere. We have a number of weak points in the defense of the land, no near-air defence, weak capacity in the defense of the land. We also had our criticism, for example, that either 122 mm cannons should be given to Ukraine or not. This criticism was that if we have ourselves, we practically do not have any surplus artillery weapons systems, we should strengthen the map capacity of the land defence, it should go there. Similarly, there is a need to strengthen the pioneer capacity there, plus we also see that in order to protect the Suur-Tallinn space, we do not have midland anti-aircraft, we do not generally have enough troops, just we need three or four battalions..... additional troops here, just regular infantry, which does not have to be organized by battalions, but which may also be different, or part of the land protection structure. We just need to take these most basic steps to be better prepared for this military conflict. If, right here in the Suur-Tallinn room, we can assume that there may be so much of a potential fifth column here alone that the units of the Defence League in Tallinn chess or Harju chess would simply not be able to cope with this alone, then we cannot neglect the capital in this way. Here is a list of the most distressing things that need to be done, in principle, in terms of military defence, internal defence and broad-based national defence. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U360	Thank you. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U361	No, I don't have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U362	I'm sorry! I now ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. [[Urmas Reinsalu is asking for more time.]] Eight minutes in total. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U363	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Prime Minister! Mr. Secretary of Defense! People's representative! Good people of Estonia! Assessment of the current security situation. Europe is in a security crisis and this security crisis poses a military threat to the Baltic States. This security crisis poses a threat to Russia's neighbours; this security crisis poses a military threat to the whole of Europe and NATO. Certainly in this context, we need to deal without delay with the new foundations of security policy. The threat assessment of the crisis is actually also the way in which we set our capability needs and how we take steps together with our allies to mitigate this military threat. For example, both Finland and Lithuania clearly recognise this military threat arising from Russia on the basis of their current security policy. There's nothing secret or inappropriate about it. Secondly, the situation with regard to our security needs on the NATO route. Our primary objective must be the increased presence of allies in the Baltic States, especially the presence of the United States, the military presence in the Baltic States. There is no alternative to this in the current security situation. The primary, at least the primary, that we must seek is that some of Germany's F-16 fighters stationed in Poland, which has also been said to cooperate with the Šiauliai and Ämari air security mission, that some of these F-16 fighters are placed in Šiauliai and Ämar respectively. Secondly, we must request a revision of the Baltic-Polish defence plans in view of the fact that the security situation has become and has become negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U364	Good waitress, I apologize to you. Good colleagues, there's noise in the hall, it's disturbing, there's noise in front of this room. Please respect the waitress and honor those colleagues who want to listen. Please, let's get these stories out of the hall. Good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U365	The changed security situation must also give us a new view of our national defence capabilities. The government adopted a new 10-year national defence development plan in December. There is no doubt that this pace of implementation of the development plan must, in principle, be reviewed and done in such a way that all political forces in Parliament are involved. We need consensus, there is no alternative to consensus in the current crisis, and we need real decisions that are filled with content that will increase our defence capabilities faster. Secondly, as regards the proposals made by the Prime Minister on additional defence costs planned by the government, this description of these expenditure targets remained vague. Surely we have every reason to raise more supplies. However, it is reasonable for the government to actually plan an additional budget in the form of a security budget, without stretching and quickly, so that we can make these binding decisions in terms of the state budget. Secondly, which also concerns internal security. The Fatherland is convinced that in the current crisis we also need capacity and capacity in the area of internal security. Therefore, the consolidations that destabilise internal security, which are actually planned, should be reviewed and abandoned. They're not necessary now, it's not a moment. The government must be commended for giving up the EUR 100 million cut planned in the country's budget strategy in the spring of last year. It was true that this happened very dramatically, where the two involved always had to go through the process of excruciating mistrust for politicians. But that signal came to the government, and it deserves recognition. The government understood that this plan and action were completely shortsighted. Because I recall that the intention that was presented to us in last year's country's budget strategy, the EUR 100 million cut, happened only a few months after Putin had assembled large-scale units on the borders of Ukraine with exactly the same handwriting. Now, with regard to arms aid to Ukraine, it must be implemented quickly and the coordination of final producers, which will enable us to implement this aid, even more so, to call on a wider range of allies to do so. And secondly, we must, in cooperation with our allies, insist that, without stretching... And that was also my reference when, on 4 January, I sent a letter to you, Madam Prime Minister, and I called on my allies to stand up for the introduction of an automatic sanction mechanism, this sanction mechanism, which has actually already been enforced against Russia, if it intends to intensify further full-scale military aggression or to escalate this automatic mechanism in Ukraine, we need. In this sense, we are in an unprecedented situation in Europe's security architecture, where threats to war lead to negotiations with the environment. This is certainly a fact that we cannot accept in principle, especially as a NATO border country. Last January's military escalation led to the Biden-Putin Summit, we remember, in Geneva last summer. Now, in fact, bilateral negotiations are also taking place. It is a good thing that the NATO Member States have demonstrated their unity, but it must certainly be a logic that it is not justified to enter into negotiations on this level on the basis of rhetoric which threatens such a war, which is directly contrary to the Charter of the United Nations. And it would certainly have been justified for Estonia, as I proposed last autumn, that the ultimatums that Russia has presented, essentially to conclude a new Yalta agreement, that it would have been appropriate for Estonia, as the only provisional member of the Security Council elected from Eastern Europe, to raise their condemnation in the United Nations Security Council. These are the issues that the Security Council has created as a peaceful solution to problems by the world's nations. Finally. We are in different crises, the security crisis threatens our national self-being, that is, we need determination, we need clarity and we need a capable government on a broader scale. And this undoubtedly, the government's ability to work, is here of critical weight, and this, to be acknowledged, has swayed. The question of whether we have confidence that this government, with this capacity, will be able to make decisions on various issues and will be able to resolve security problems with such courage, is certainly a point of thought. But once again: the subject of security, the subject of national defence must be the subject of consensus. It would have been better if we had tried to resolve these issues in a consensual debate in the Committee on National Defence and, in fact, with the involvement of the entire parliamentary community, to find these solutions, because we must not follow events. Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Enn Eesmaa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U366	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Enn Eesmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U367	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, Minister for Defence, ladies and gentlemen. In the current difficult situation of any security, it is likely that everyone will understand the profound phrase that has emerged from President Lennart Meri: "Never again alone. " I worked on his team when that phrase was born. Everyone certainly agrees that every effort must be made to ensure security, both at the individual level and at the level of society as a whole and at national level. However, different perceptions are about how and at what cost to achieve all this safe welfare. When we deal strictly with national security, some consider it important that we increase our contribution in this area. Others, however, are doubtful and even ask whether we are sure that we are at risk from the east. Money for national defence could and should be used elsewhere. The Riigikogu is the most suitable place in Estonia for this kind of discussion and debate. We have both coalition and opposition represented. I am pleased to note that during the meetings of the National Defence Committee, we will address all issues in depth, together with experts, and that everyone will have the opportunity to express their opinions and to justify them. I would like to emphasise good cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Minister. Sometimes we vote, but that's not normal. As we know, we are currently dealing with a number of dangerous crises. So we need to be careful whether it is worth further increasing the nervousness of people in an area that is practically impossible for every individual to do something that is even more decisive. In the health and energy crisis, these opportunities exist, although not very great. The Estonian leaders have unanimously described the real opportunity of the outbreak of war in Ukraine and do not need to be a special analyst to realise that the conflict of arms may expand. Leaders have data that are inaccessible to ordinary people. The more credible their predictions seem. Some commentators who criticize Moscow and Russia harshly day after day have also understood and thought that everything depends on how long President Putin's nerves last. And yet Estonia has achieved the situation set out by President Meri: we belong to NATO and the European Union. Estonia is represented by our professional experts at the NATO leadership. Some members of the Riigikogu are concentrated in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Several Riigikogu committees deal with security and defence issues. We are cooperating on all sides, both at Baltic, Nordic and European Union and global level. The NB8 or Nordic-Baltic Defence Cooperation Framework includes dialogues at the level of Defence Ministers, Policy Directors and Commanders of the Defence Forces. Of course, cooperation can be enhanced. Further developments include increasing the scientific situation, finding common capacity development projects, developing military interoperability and cyber defence, where Estonia is considered to be a serious player. The changed situation is also slowly changing the attitude of the Swedish and Finnish people towards the possibility of joining NATO. The results of a recent survey clearly indicate that the scepticism of the Finns towards NATO has diminished. Nearly a third of the population already envisages Finland as a NATO member country today. For the first time, the percentage of those who deny membership has reached less than 50. The Finn speaks little, but if he has to, he takes the gun and goes to face all the dangers, even to face an overwhelming enemy's howitz. Moreover, Finns have been making incredible profits from good relations with Russia for decades, especially in Northern Finland, many who, pragmatically, do not want to hear about sanctions for Russia. The situation is roughly the same in Sweden. Together with the Finns, they have developed a common defence plan, carried out joint exercises to protect both Öland and Åland. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U368	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U369	Naturally, the leaders of both countries stress that all defence decisions are taken independently, freely and independently of the major countries. Both nations take into account the worst opportunities, but professionals are the primary concern. The leaders of the media and political parties do not scare the people, because it is no greater help. Except for the buying-in of matches, salt and other long-standing accessories. The leaders of international life are working day after day to reduce tensions in Ukraine and elsewhere. The US Foreign Minister, Antony Blinken, is in Ukraine today, and this week he will meet Sergei Lavrov in Geneva. Annalena Baerbock, the German foreign minister, whose rhetoric is unusually straightforward, is also actively seeking solutions. One of his quotes summarises our many opinions in countries whose individual views on international top politics are not asked every day. Fortunately, the voice of Estonia and the other Baltic nations also speaks in coordination with the other NATO Member States. This has always been the case with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. We won't be alone for a long time, because we alone wouldn't be able to fight a big opponent even if we spent 13.2% on defence instead of 2.3%. According to the German Foreign Minister, we have no choice but to defend common rules, even if it has an expensive economic price. Germany well knows what it means to them. Moscow has been warned by the President of the United States and now also by the President of Turkey, who has so far strongly supported Kiev. All of this is known in Moscow and the Kremlin. If this does not help, and if there is a conflict of arms, Ukraine and, of course, NATO will be prepared for it. Estonia must develop its national security and allocate money for it. In today's speech, the Prime Minister touched on these initiatives which are aimed at speeding up unanimously. We are probably all in favour of this being the right step. The final decision to allocate money in our national budgets is made by the Riigikogu, where politicians in both government and opposition defend their interests and objectives. This will provide an opportunity for a multi-faceted analysis of the problem. Perhaps the current highly electrified national defence situation will give us all the determination to contribute even more to this work today, the results of which will not be seen in one year, not even a few years' time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U370	Thank you. I now ask for the speech of the Riigikogu; the floor has been requested by the Minister of Defence Kalle Laane. Please! Sorry, before you go... to the chair, there are procedural questions. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U371	Thank you, good Chairman. Of course, I would be very interested to hear the presentation by the Minister for Defence and the clarifications made to the Prime Minister's speech, because the Prime Minister is not an expert in this specific field of defence. But we are faced with one such big problem that all ministers have the right and the opportunity to come to the Riigikogu with a political statement. The President of the Riigikogu can grant permission to do so, but at this point only the Prime Minister has submitted the application, not the Minister of Defence, and this format does not provide for any other minister to add to the political statement of a minister. Personally, I'd like to know what the Secretary of Defense has to say, but how do you explain this problem and how you're going to go against the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U372	No, I do not consider this to be a contradiction, because the members of the Government of the Republic have the right to appear in the round of negotiations if they so wish. Procedural question Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U373	Yeah, well, I'd like to come back to the subject that a good colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, was trying to understand here at the beginning that what function is a respected Minister for Defence who is in the Chamber and the answer was that he was just sitting there. But now, in the meantime, we have come to realize that he is still planning a speech, which we were not told at the beginning. And we have, we are still here today, we have listened, we have sat here knowing that we have, and so has been proclaimed, the political statement of the Prime Minister and § 155 of the Rules of Procedure say, which sets out the political statements of the President, the Prime Minister and the ministers. That if the minister wants to make a political statement or speak, he must register it on the Board of the Riigikogu. And it also provides that this format, when the Secretary of Defense comes to talk, we have a right and a chance to ask. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would like to take this opportunity to ask him, too, but he has not registered his speech accordingly and this format is not available to us. How has this somewhat confusing situation come about here today, that I also recall that we have actually been listening to the Prime Minister's political statement here in the security policy situation, but security also includes not only the Ministry of Defence, but also the Ministry of the Interior, so why do we not have the Minister of the Interior here today with this kind of speech? So how are we going to solve this question right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U374	Thank you. I listened to this procedural question, and I say that basically, the whole government can sit in this box if they think it's right. If you now come to these sections, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides an opportunity, § 71 (1): "A member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice have the right to speak. "It is also governed by § 100 of the Constitution, which says: "Members of the Government of the Republic may participate in meetings of the Riigikogu and its committees with a say." Now, with regard to the registration that you asked for, that has not been registered, I say that this will has been passed on to the manager. That is what the previous President, who was in charge, said, and the Minister of Defence also repeated to me that he has the will to participate here in this political statement in the round of negotiations with a speech. And that's his chance. A procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U375	Thank you, Mr Jüri Ratas, Mr President of the sitting. You spoke absolutely correctly with reference to § 71 of the Home and Working Procedures Act that a member of the Government of the Republic is entitled to speak. But I would like to draw attention to this, ask your good advisors that this is a general norm. So the general rule is essentially extended by a special rule, which is currently a political statement by the Prime Minister according to § 155. And I would also like to point out that when the agenda was announced, there was only talk about the Prime Minister's political statement. For a long time, we wanted to know from the esteemed Hanno Pevkur why Mr Laane is still sitting in this Chamber. And then the whole argument was only that he had the right to sit here, but no mention that he wanted to make some kind of political statement was not published to us members of the Riigikogu. At the moment, we only first learned that they wanted to give Mr Laanet a say. I do not mind, but since the special rule is imposing restrictions now because it has not submitted a request to that effect and there is also a point on the agenda only for the Prime Minister, unfortunately with all due respect for Laanet, we are not currently able to process his speech on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U376	Thank you. I'll try to explain it again. Article 71, what does he say in our home and working order? Says as follows that members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. "A member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice shall have the right to speak. Approval to speak shall be given by the President of the sitting... " This is § 71. We're talking about a round of negotiations. The political statement is governed by § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. There is a political statement that will be agreed on, how long it will be, in this case, 20 minutes it was, then there are questions, if that is so agreed, in this case it was one oral question, and then there are negotiations. The negotiations are for the representatives of the political groups. Now this declaration of intent. As I said, when we had an exchange of manager with Hanno Pevkur, Hanno Pevkur said that the Minister of Defence wanted the last word in the round of negotiations. In addition, the Secretary of Defense came and informed me about this. In the round of negotiations, indeed, a member of the Government of the Republic has the right to speak if he so wishes. And that wish has been passed. A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U377	Thank you. I am very sorry, and it is also a little embarrassing that we have to get stuck in procedural matters here on such an important issue, but I think, however, this procedure is very important now, because in my practice it is currently a precedent, and I have been very familiar with Parliament and the Bureau and the Rules of Procedure for a very long time. So far, it has been interpreted as meaning that if a member of the government wishes to appear before the Riigikogu, he will agree it in advance with the Head of the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, and then, of course, we will all listen and, accordingly, as agreed, so it will. Now, the members of the government have also been given the floor on the point of their report whenever they so wish. And I think this practice has been right. At the moment, the Prime Minister's statement is being made, and I asked when we began to process this item from the Vice-President Pevkur, who chaired the sitting of the Riigikogu at the time, whether the Minister of Defence has asked for the floor or is he making the statement, or is he just here to support the Prime Minister? In addition, the President replied that the Minister had the right to be present and, with later questions, however we did not try to find out what the Minister of Defence was for, absolutely did not indicate that he wanted the floor. You said that the previous manager said that the previous manager had not informed the Chamber in the slightest way. I think this is very incorrect management. If the Minister of Defence really wanted the floor, then the manager should have informed the big hall about it, it would have been correct if he did. I don't know if I did or didn't. But he hid it from the Riigikogu either knowingly or unconsciously, I think it is not correct, it is extremely incorrect. If also a member of the Riigikogu wishes to find out that the Head of the Riigikogu concealed it. But this is now a question of regularity and culture, more importantly is whether we are going to interpret this point, § 71 so that a member of the government has the right to come to the Riigikogu at any time without prior agreement with the President, without approving it in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, without proclaiming this point, and so every member of the government, for every item on the agenda, this is what is happening. As the Minister is walking in, says that I want the floor, no matter what the agenda is going on, there is and we will give him the floor. I see that also in Taavi Aas, the minister has arrived in the Riigikogu. He wants a word next on something, and he can do it. Are we really interpreting § 71 like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U378	Thank you for these questions. First of all, the first part of the question is that you don't remember. I don't remember either, I'm telling you the truth, but it's whether it's been there, it's not. I can't say in practice whether it's been before or not. Now, the other side. You said I said that Pevkur informed me that the Secretary of Defense wanted the floor. He really informed me when we had the manager's shift, and he told me. I can't tell if he'd told the hall before or not. Now, I must be honest with you that if we now take an analog to the round of negotiations in any other format, then the President will never inform the Chamber of this. It is true that a member of the government will tell the President that he wants the floor and that the President will give it to me as a rule if he has not given it every time. Now, on your last question, will the members of the government, in principle, be able to speak at any time during the negotiations, so that they have not been informed in advance? I will deal with it in such a way that, when negotiations are under way, a member of the government says that he wants the floor, that is the discretion of the President as to whether or not to give the floor. I think it's mostly given, if not always. Now the question goes on is, in theory, can all members of the government take the floor here, 15 members. I'd say theoretically yes, plus the Chancellor of Justice and... That's what I'd say. Kert Kingo, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U379	Thanks for the opportunity! In the interests of legal clarity and regularity, I would still like to clarify how these things work here. When the sitting began, the President of the sitting, who was then Hanno Pevkur, told us what changes were on today's agenda, and these amendments did not include that the Minister of Defence would also like to speak or participate in negotiations somewhere, for example. There was only one announcement that the Prime Minister's political statement would take place. The political statement is specifically regulated in § 155 of the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, which is why we must consider that there is a political statement by the Prime Minister, rather than arbitrarily extending other paragraphs there. There are very clear procedures here to show how something is, and it has not been said that a minister could then begin to do so without making a request to the management board of the Riigikogu to speak here. Why don't we get legal clarity now and follow that law correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U380	Thank you. § 155 is one party, the other is § 71, as I said. The political statement consists of different parts: there is a statement, there are issues when it is agreed, and there is a negotiating round. In the round of negotiations, indeed, a member of the government if he or she wishes and the chairman so decides, he or she will receive this right. I was not in the Chamber at the time, but I have been informed, and I hope that this information is true, that the Prime Minister also said at the end of his speech that the Minister of Defence would speak in the round of negotiations. I'd like a moment of silence! A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U381	Thank you. Mr President, you are also very creatively interpreting the practice that has been here. You very creatively interpret the practice that has been so far. So far, this minister has still received the floor in the negotiations, who is involved in this point, who has reported. I do not recall the case that, for example, the Minister of Defence is coming to the Riigikogu by introducing some draft legislation and then later the Minister of Social Affairs will take the floor in the negotiations on this subject. I don't remember any such practice. It is still the minister concerned who reported this point. And so is the correct statement by the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister will make a statement and the Prime Minister will also have the opportunity to conclude the negotiations. It's been an internship so far. But now we are setting a precedent where arbitrary ministers can speak on any agenda item. I do not think that this is a correct interpretation, and there has been no practice so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U382	Thank you. I have to tell you now that the Secretary of Defense says he doesn't want a word anymore. This will has been lifted. On this point in the negotiations, he does not want a word. He briefed me, and now I'm going to inform you. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U383	Good manager! I asked the Prime Minister because the Minister for Defence, honourable, has written that the EKRE is destroying and damaging Estonia's defence capabilities, and I wanted the Prime Minister's answer whether this is true. And then, for the first time, the Prime Minister said that after that, the Secretary of Defense would come and answer. It was in the middle of questions. For the sake of truth, procedurally: how did the so-called "information" come about the appearance of the Minister of Defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U384	Thank you. Henn Põllaas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U385	Thank you. There are certainly no political parties in this Chamber against increasing our security and defence capabilities. However, I must point out that I am extremely sorry that we do not have the opportunity to listen to the Minister of Defence at the moment, that these rules of procedure were violated, and that is why we have now failed to mention his additions and clarifications and other important things. I would like to put to the heart of the manager that the next time such things come, important things in the hall, in order to act in good time in accordance with the rules of procedure. And you could have put the defense minister's statement here on the Prime Minister's statement, and we would have all listened to it with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U386	Thank you for your comment or information. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U387	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize in advance, I have a procedure for the manager, but I have to do my message. I myself was also looking forward to the important message of the Minister for Defence on the international situation at the end of the Prime Minister's security policy statement, and I consider it very important. Equally, of course, it is also important that we follow the procedure, and it is also important that the President has the right to lead the sitting if there are such prudent situations. But what is very bad here is that if the situation is that the Minister of Defence is present here, the head of the Fatherland and the members of the EKRE will create such an unacceptable track. And I think that the Riigikogu currently clearly owes an apology to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U388	Now, that means the Secretary of Defense said he doesn't want a word in the negotiations, it's a statement of his will. So that's right, I'm not gonna call her back here. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U389	Thank you. I would point out that criticism of the opposition is not appropriate here at the moment. We would have much rather expected a political statement today from Kalle Laanet, who is a specialist in this field. Unfortunately, we still have to follow all the rules of procedure on the basis of which we are working in this Chamber. And what to do is, let's hear the end of Kaja Kallas, because he's actually a specialist in this area too, because he wouldn't have come up with a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U390	Thank you. The political statement is made by those ministers who are making this wish that they wish to make a political statement. Today, a member of the government has submitted, this is the Prime Minister, and we are currently dealing with a political statement. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U391	Thank you, Mr President. I would like the message from this hall to remain that we are ready and able to cooperate for our national security. And this debate, this place, also on behalf of the government, in the form of a statement by the Prime Minister, is actually the starting point for planning rapid steps, in which Parliament must be involved and, of course, it is being carried out or implemented by the government implementing foreign and internal policies. I would therefore have a procedural proposal for you, Mr Riigikogu, in this debate, so that it would be appropriate to bring together the body of elders in the near future, to discuss the risk assessment, the planned expenses and possible additional activities that need to be planned and supported by the government, so that this legitimacy in securing our security would be strong and the principle of consensus policy would be maintained, and from the point of view of these individual debates it would not be the spirit that we are all prepared to contribute more than the threat is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U392	Thank you. I'm taking that idea with me. As far as I am aware, we do not actually have such a set of rules, such a review of security policy, but I think it certainly makes sense in this crisis to give or ask for it. All right, I'll close the negotiations, no more speeches. Thank you! I thank the Prime Minister, I thank the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and answers. That is what we have dealt with on item 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U393	We will proceed to item No 3, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 477 SE. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Tavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U394	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Aviation is by its very nature a rapidly developing cross-border area and its functioning involves human lives, property and infrastructure. In view of technological and socio-economic developments and the related challenge to ensure a high level of aviation safety, numerous aviation legislation and revised existing standards have been adopted at EU level in recent years. The draft therefore aims to bring aviation law into line with the latest changes in European Union law and to take account of the shortcomings that have arisen in practice. I will give you an overview of the main issues set out in the draft. The most important ones concern unmanned aviation and ground handling. The law is complemented by a chapter on the handling of the unmanned aircraft system. The European Union Regulation on Unmanned Aviation imposes an obligation on Member States to register operators of unmanned aircraft when operating unmanned aircraft with a maximum take-off mass of at least 250 grams or which, in the event of a collision, may transfer over 80 joules of kinetic energy to a person or whose operation poses a threat to privacy, the protection of personal data, security or the environment. Each drone flight shall be approached on a risk-based basis to classify flights into different operating categories. The European Union regulation directly applicable in Estonia became applicable from 1 July 2021, but procedural rules need to be clarified in the aviation law. As unmanned aircraft operators are generally not manned by civil aviation training and experience, and the behaviour of unmanned aircraft has differences in relation to manned aviation, the specific provisions for unmanned aviation operating licences and training are set out in a complex chapter in the draft. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence have been consulted in the development of these provisions, and the Transport Board has also consulted operators. Secondly, the law is supplemented by a chapter on groundhandling services. This is necessary to prepare the opening of the baggage and apron handling market at Tallinn airport and to fully transpose the Council of the European Union Directive on access to the groundhandling market at Community airports. The principle of guaranteeing the freedom to provide groundhandling services, exceptions to this principle and the power to grant exemptions to the Government of the Republic in individual cases is included in the Act. The Act also includes basic requirements for the activities of suppliers of groundhandling services and self-handlers and the principles underlying the establishment of more precise requirements. The draft has revealed in practice in other Member States of the European Union and the reasons for the problems identified in the European Commission's impact analyses have been addressed in Estonia where possible. For example, there are open requirements for the organisation of the Airport Users' Committee, requirements for the selection of service providers, competitive procedures to be carried out and requirements for the groundhandling provider and self-operator. In addition to the two important changes that have just been explained, there are other issues in the draft that deserve to be highlighted. The draft specifies the requirements for aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. The law complements the regulation on the issue and supervision of a combined airworthiness management organisation certificate. This amendment simplifies maintenance and continuing airworthiness management for non-complex aircraft used for non-commercial operations. In the light of the results of aviation audits carried out by international organisations, the Aviation Act complements the regulation on aviation personnel licences. This will be done by updating and simplifying requirements relating to aeronautical radio communication and professional language, as the requirements have been established in accordance with the current version of the Aviation Act prior to the introduction of the relevant regulation of the European Union and no longer meet today's requirements. The draft clarifies the provisions relating to safety in relation to the limits on the amount of alcohol in the blood and in the breath of aviation personnel and the procedural provisions relating to the measurement of alcohol in the air. The European Union aviation safety requirements require checks to be carried out on aircraft pilots and cabin crew drinkers. This shall be done during ramp inspections of the aircraft. According to the draft, the requirements for aerodromes not used for regular commercial operations will be simplified. The regulation on the certification of air navigation services and equipment is also updated. Currently, the Aviation Act contains a regulation on certification of air navigation services and the development of aviation procedures. The draft adds regulation related to air traffic management and the service provider's activities. The draft specifies and updates the regulation on aviation background control. The amendment increases legal clarity, slightly broadens the range of background check subjects and simplifies the handling of individuals who are natural persons working in aviation and employers' background checks. The current system will not become more stringent with the proposed amendment, and the main change will be the addition of persons working outside the restricted area of the airport security limit to the number of persons to be checked. In addition, the draft clarifies the provisions relating to supervisory liability and state fees. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U395	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U396	Good manager! Dear Minister, I read here that for the granting and administrative decision-making of permits and certificates issued by civil aircraft, air carrier, producer organisation, maintenance organisation, etc., the Transport Authority will make. Who are these people at the Transport Board, who are making these decisions and how these people are being elected there, because they must be highly qualified and there should be a lot of them, because there are six areas on which these decisions should be taken. Why don't you introduce us or tell us how many of them we've been hired to the Transport Department and who's taking specialists to the Transport Department, what kind of training they're going to have to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U397	Thank you. I assure you, there are competent people in the Transport Department. As a reminder, the Transport Board came up with the merger of three agencies, one of which was the Authority, which carried out all these procedures in the past, and the Authority's specialists are now working at the Transport Board from the beginning of last year and they are the ones doing this at the Transport Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U398	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U399	Thank you. Of course, people working at airports need to be checked and checked in the background. And there are two kinds of checks, one is a standard check that looks at his criminal record and work experience and all that, but there is also a reinforced background check where he goes through the station and it also includes surveillance activities and so on and so on, almost the same as when he receives state secrets, and with this we went a big step forward, with this kapo control being made mandatory for everyone and the standard check being abolished. It is said to be a requirement of the European Union, but it is not at all, it is quite clearly our own initiative, and that means that some 600-700 people a year will have to go through additional kapo controls. How do you justify that? It's some sort of thing, I can't say softly, creating a police state. But the cherry on this cake is that the Director-General of the Transport Board has obliged people to submit these data by 1 March in the situation where we have it at first reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U400	Good questioner, your time! And good fellows, let's try in a minute, I have a big request. Please, good answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U401	Thank you. Indeed, the Defence Police Department has been selected to carry out a background check in Estonia; their competence in this is the highest. 600-700 people are certainly not affected. This check also becomes easier in the sense that this check, the background check, is a one-off. And there is an increase in the number of people who pass background checks by some 200 to 300 people, or those who do not work directly at the airport but handle packages, shipments that later move to the enclosed territory of the airport. For the sake of flight safety or for the safety of all of us, I think it is right and reasonable to make sure that all the people who come into contact with the territory of a closed airport are controlled. But once again, the check is one-off, so there will certainly be no 600-700 additional people here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U402	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U403	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Unmanned aircraft are certainly a growing trend and their take-up is growing considerably. In this sense, it is very gratifying that the law will go further in regulating this matter up to sanctions when the rules are broken. Hence my question about the capacity of the Transport Board that if we approve it here in the Riigikogu, will the Transport Board be able to control all of this on the next day and how is it planned to maintain this capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U404	Thank you. Once again, I assure you that the Transport Department has emerged from the merger of three agencies, one of which was the Authority. Air Force specialists are working at the Transport Department today, they are competent, they have experience, so this inspection will certainly be done in this office.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U405	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U406	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I would like to continue with this very subject of drone operations. In fact, on page 112, the explanatory memorandum states that "a long-distance pilot does not need to acquire less than 250 g of unmanned aircraft and persons performing flights at a certain altitude on aircraft that does not collect personal data. " What do you mean, maybe you're gonna talk it out that a drone that doesn't collect personal data, what's this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U407	Thank you. It's the kind of aircraft that doesn't have a camera on it that can record people from the air, their residences and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U408	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm asking because maybe they're asking me and I can't explain it in any way. This law limits the alcohol content to the crew member of the aircraft, and it's like 0.2 milligrams in traffic law, right? This raises the question of whether these same crew members will be allowed to fly in such a way that they have alcohol detected in their blood. Why don't we set a zero here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U410	Thank you. The same rates will be applied, as in the Traffic Act, i.e. according to European law, it will be 0.2 if the country does not have stricter rules. We also have this 0.2, so this is also the case in aviation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U411	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U412	Thank you. I still did not get an answer to my question as to why we are turning onto these standards in the European Union and making security checks considerably tougher, all this has to happen through the kapo. And the second question was that, although we still have this law on this table at first reading, the Director of the Transport Department has already issued a corresponding order according to which all employees must submit to it. There's no law yet. This is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U413	Thank you. I really do owe the answer here to whether and what orders the Director of the Transport Department has already issued today. I will certainly ask him whether there have been grounds for these arrangements, although background checks have been carried out in the past, so that the law itself does not create a precedent or create a new background check. The circle of people undergoing background checks under this law is expanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U414	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U415	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Here is also the topic that the International Civil Aviation Organisation Frequency Coordinator in Estonia is responsible for the coordination of radio frequencies for air traffic services, navigation or step equipment. Can you tell us who this coordinator is in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U416	Thank you. I don't know. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U417	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U418	Good manager and minister! Did I hear correctly that the pilot can take off with 0.2 prom?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U419	Thank you. It must be below this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U420	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U421	Thank you. I ask you, good minister, the question that there has actually been quite a lot of talk about air traffic control capabilities in Tallinn, for example, or some other country. Is there any way to adjust this side of the bill, that it is not possible to keep air traffic controllers everywhere, that it can be done remotely, i.e. the plane can be landed from, for example, Kuressaare or Pärnu in Tallinn, whether it needs to be regulated or whether this draft deals with this topic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U422	Thank you. No, it does not need to be further regulated because, for example, Tallinn Airport is already working in this direction, so that the air traffic controllers are in Tallinn and would then also serve Tartu Airport, Kuressaare Airport, Pärnu Airport. So the work is already going in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U423	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U424	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Looking at this chart of coordination, here is a point like 8.3, it has been prepared by the air traffic control company. Authorisations issued by the European Union could also be valid without further registration. The explanatory memorandum to the draft does not give rise to the strengthening of the conditions for the recognition of air traffic controller and air traffic controller student licences. It has been said after the explanation that, as if it is not tightened up, it still remains confusing in the sense that the question is being asked by the European Union, not in the context of the European Union. What's it really like with this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U425	Thank you. As far as I can tell, it concerns language proficiency requirements. And indeed, this bill sets up a procedure or clarifies how the language skills of air traffic controllers are controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U426	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U427	Thank you, Minister. Does this 0.2 promill, which concerns a possible drink, extend to aircraft, ships, cars, let's say for all motor vehicles universally in Estonia, and does it come from European law in the same way, or is it different in the Member States and we have some power of decision here on our own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U428	Thank you. Yes, in every country, the decision-making power is, as this European rule says, that 0.2 or, if it is stricter in a Member State, it will, of course, apply more rigorously. This is certainly different from one Member State to another. In the case of watercraft, I think it was once one in Estonia and it was reduced to zero decimal points for five boat drivers, according to my memory. So he's different on watercraft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U429	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U430	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let me see how much this 0.2 can be, depending on the weight. A male pilot can pull a half-litre beer down here, and even 50 grams of cognac will give you the same. If there's a smaller flight attendant or a pilot, you'll have to wait a little longer, but an hour before the launch, you can relax. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U431	Thank you. I wouldn't recommend not drinking alcoholic beverages at all before the start, but the rule is rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U432	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed three times by the Commission in one form or another. On 22 November the Commission rapporteur (consensual decision) was approved. On 6 December, the Commission had a Minister for Economic Affairs, took stock of this law, and this review was much more comprehensive for the Commission than it was today, it took much more time. In fact, this is also justified because this law amends 160 provisions in this area. After that, two questions had been asked. Mr Kallas came with one. He asked whether aircraft coming from outside the European Union had to be subject to European safety control and asked whether the inspection was guaranteed in Estonia. In addition, is there free competition in gas management in Estonia? The answer to the second question was that baggage handling is an airport matter and if there are competitors, we will see how it can be, but for those who come outside the European Union, Silja Vöörmann, adviser to the Aviation Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that third countries have both high and lower safety standards. Air services agreements with third countries concluded at EU level or individualised by Member States are concluded in the EU. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Kristen Michal wondered what would change in connection with the background check and whether it was budgeted. Silja Vöörmann replied that budgeting was carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. It has been discussed that the Defence Police Department needs a little more resources, but it moves to the government separately. And Kristen Michal also told me about a statement he got from a ninth grader boy who's studying to be a pilot, but since he's a minor, he's not getting a permit for the airport, on the airfield. The Ministry took this statement and promised to investigate the situation and give an answer. Then there was a consensual decision to take the draft to the Chamber by 12 January and finish the first reading. The third time was discussed last Monday, the 10th, because I was in the danger that on the 12th I might not be in Tallinn for work at the local government council. The Commission took the decision to address the Riigikogu Board with a proposal to bring it to the Chamber by 18 January. As regards the debate on yesterday's statement, it moved to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U434	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Kokk.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U435	Good manager! Honourable ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important subject matter and draft law, but since the members of the Riigikogu only have two options, two questions to ask, there were several topics left in the air. And I especially liked the Minister to say that he recommended that the air traffic controllers who boarded the plane be sober. But now the question arises: since each country in the European Union can decide for itself whether the condition is zero, 0.1 or 0.2, the question arises: if the plane flies from here in Riga, if there are 0.2 in Estonia, I do not know what Latvia is. In Latvia, if it is 0,0, does this amount of beer have to go out of the body, or vice versa, that if a plane rises and there is a requirement of 0,0, can the airman in the meantime let one beer in before it lands in Estonia? I think that the current tolerance should be that there should be no residual effects in aviation, as this 0.2 is clearly residual. We can here, Peter here read from some smart book in between that lace of cognac or a bottle of beer. If the Committee on Economic Affairs continues to discuss this issue, we should look at whether all the countries across the European Union have the same conditions, whether everywhere, perhaps the chance where a pilot takes a shot of cognac before taking off, just in case? I do believe that none of the Estonian pilots do. But here in the Riigikogu Hall, in discussions on such topics, when we get in the car, it's kind of weird that if I drive by the airport, it's natural that I haven't been drinking alcohol, and then when I get to the airport and start driving the plane, I could have had a bit of a drink. I hope that Estonia could still make a very clear message about this: in aviation on Estonian territory, if there is air flying, the situation could be zero, not 0.2.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U436	Thanks, more calls... I see it! I would like to ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põllea, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U437	Thank you. Of course, it is absolutely inevitable that aviation rules will be harmonised between different countries, and that is only positive. But I'd still come back to that check again, which I also asked the Minister about. In today's situation, where we declare that we do not have any external threat, no external threat, but this is a hypothetical threat to Estonia, and also an internal security situation is normal and we do not have any terrorist threat, I do not see a reason why even the simplest transporters and parcel carriers should be allowed and I do not know who will subject everyone working at the airport to control. European rules provide for two kinds of checks: standard checks, where the criminal record looks at whether there is a decent person, I ask where I work, where education is, what work experience is, and then it is strengthened, which of course is necessary in certain occupations, that is to say, surveillance by the kapo and a very thorough background check. How can we, under slogans, that we harmonise and simplify, actually make it much more complicated than hundreds and hundreds of people now have to go through the control and surveillance of the kapo? Think about the workload it puts on the employees of the shop. They're gonna have to track the transatlantics instead of chasing the Russian spies. I think that's very questionable. These security measures are good and necessary. I am talking about my own experience, I have not only flown on passenger planes in Europe, but also on private aircraft. For example, during the summer I went to Finland and there is no problem. You tell the air traffic control unit you're coming, you land at this time, you go to the airfield where you land, you leave your plane where it's meant to be, and you go to the city, then you come back, you get on the plane, you report to the air tower that we're going there and there, the height will be this and the top-top. But have any of you tried not to pass through the passenger terminal at Tallinn Airport, but to where there are private planes? Planes owners who store their planes there also need to go first through these huge metal detectors, submit documents, inform in advance who, how, where, what, and how many people. And the most ridiculous thing is that you might have a plane right there, even a hundred meters away, you could walk there. But, oh, no, you have to order a special machine for this. You have to fly it to your plane, pay for it tens of [euros], I don't remember exactly how many dozens of euros it was to get to your plane, and when you come back exactly the same thing, you come out of the car instead of two minutes walking to the gate, leaving the airport, you have to order an escort, and sometimes you wait there I don't know how long. I think that we have a habit of overreacting in almost all areas, turning a wink, and if we really do come up with all these Euro-standards, and whenever there is some kind of recommendation, as in this case with this control, security control, we take it as an order, we have to do it the hardest way and the hardest way, without thinking about how it bothers our daily functioning and our lives. And if this law now states that we are simplifying and harmonising, and this is a European Union requirement, which it is not really at all and we are not actually simplifying, then it is after that brick, that law we have as many other provisions that say it is a European Union requirement, it is actually that we have turned it over, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U438	Good waitress, would you like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U439	Yeah, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U440	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U441	Just as we once had a requirement for two sinks in the usual village shop, which came from Europe, but after that it turned out that Europe never really demanded such nonsense from us. Although I welcome this law in all respects, this one particular matter raises doubts as to whether, in fact, this law has not abused this possibility and simply made recommendations compulsory, and we are once again at the forefront of the world, because we have the toughest rules and procedures that we ourselves have established for some reason. So, yes, we have ten days to make amendments here, but I do not think that we would be able to handle and compare all these amendments with certain specific Euronorms and requirements, but the leading committees and at least their officials would be in the heart of actually having to deal with this draft and not only, but also all the rest of the drafts to comb through it with rake and common sense, so that we do not oversell it, because let us be honest, it is stupid and it doesn't take us anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U442	I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually have two lines. One is about its alcoholic strength. My father was a pilot, and there was such a rule that no alcohol should be consumed 48 hours before the flight, because 48 hours only ensures that all alcohol has disappeared from the body. If it's traffic law, because it's less than 0.2 milligrams taken from there, I can still believe it's possible on the road, but in the air... Ask any person who boardes the plane, does he want to hear that the pilot is allowed to contain 0.2 in the blood? I think a hundred percent will be the answer: no way. That's one point. And a second, background check. I can't agree here. Actually, the law isn't that big. Of the large package we have here in paper form, there are 39 pages of law, the other 150 or 160 pages are explanations, regulations that are going to be introduced, and those that are going to be repealed, all kinds of annexes and so on. So actually, this volume isn't that big. But with regard to background checks, remembering what happens sometimes in an airplane because whoever works in aviation had not been properly controlled in its time, the same principle as alcohol, that this is precisely this area, I do not really care whether the background checks are passed by members of the Defence Committee here or by anyone else, but I would very much like everyone involved in aircraft to go through this same background check. Because if there's a person who's set himself up to destroy 100 or 200 people, God forbid, that's what I'm supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U444	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 477. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 2 February at 5.15 p.m. That concludes the first reading and concludes the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U445	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (494 SE). And I ask the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U446	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to stand before the honourable Riigikogu and introduce you to the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The draft amends and supplements the Population Register Act, the Civil Status Act, the Consular Act and the State Fees Act. The purpose of the amendment is to automate the service, to change the system of issuing data from the population register and to find solutions to the bottlenecks raised in practice. The draft establishes the legal framework for automatic entries in the procedures of certain Population Register Act and Civil Status Procedures Act. For example, it is planned to make automatic entries in certain cases at the time of registration of the place of residence and at the time of birth registration. Automatic entries are entered in the population register without the official's intervention in this case. For example, in certain cases, residence data provided in the secure e-population register online can be automatically entered in the residence register. This means that the official will no longer have to intervene and can also save hours of human work. At present, an official should participate in all proceedings under the Population Register Act and the Civil Status Act as a so-called decision-maker. The draft also amends the system for issuing data from the population register. At the moment, all extracts from the population register are issued free of charge to a person about himself, his underage children and his/her guardians and deceased spouse in all local government units and are currently considered to be self-governing tasks. No funds will be allocated from the state budget to local authorities to implement them. However, local government units see this as a problem because they do not consider the issuance of data to be self-governing tasks in all cases. This bill now provides clarity as to the costs to be borne by the local government unit for issuing data from the state budget, i.e. what are the tasks of the state and in which case the local government itself will have the costs, i.e. what is the local government's task. It also lays down which local authorities are able to obtain data from this population register and in which case it is free of charge to the person and in which case the state fee is to be paid for issuing the data. The draft stipulates that the data of the persons registered in the space will be issued to the owner by the local government unit in the future and the residence data will be issued free of charge to the person by the local government unit in the place of residence. These are self-governing tasks. In order to issue information from other population registers, a person is required to pay the state fee and the data is only issued by the local government unit of the county centre. For example, an extract from the population register, which also includes the custody details, receives a state fee from the local government unit of the county centre. In this case, it is the placing of state tasks on local government units, and according to § 154 (2) of the Constitution, the costs incurred by local government units in carrying out public tasks must be borne by the state budget. It is also possible for a person to access certain population register data free of charge on the e-population register portal. However, if a person wants to download digitally-stamped data extracts from the portal, the state fee must be paid for it. It is also possible for the owner of the space to access the data of the registered persons free of charge and to initiate a change of their residence address there. As the draft provides for a state fee for the issuance of certain population register data, the draft also supplements the State fee law which provides for new state fees. If a person is issued with the population register information by a notary, the person must pay the corresponding notary fee in addition to the state fee. The draft also solves problems that have arisen in practice on a daily basis. For example, after registration of the child's birth, the application for paternity can also be submitted in a notarised form. At present, this can only be done in the Civil Status Office. The current regulation does not provide sufficient flexibility if, for example, a person is unable to attend the Civil Status Office himself. In addition, the draft shall terminate the possibility of submitting a residence notification with a prospective or retroactive date. For three years, people have had the opportunity to present their place of residence with a certain advance and retroactive date. However, according to the analysis, people have not made use of these opportunities. Rather, in individual cases, the different possibilities for the beginning of the residence period have led to confusion in the administration of local governments and in the award of grants. It is therefore reasonable to give up such a solution. The draft also lays down requirements for additional addresses, the amendment also informs the owner of the room of the space he owns as an additional address for someone in the population register. Currently, the owner is only informed if the address of the place of residence is included in the population register. The basis for refusal to enter an additional address in the population register is also specified in the draft. The draft also introduces an obligation to carry out the verification of skills and knowledge for officials who are going to carry out procedures for the issuing of personal identification codes and the recording of residence data in the population register. This is a prerequisite for accessing data in the population register. The aim of the requirement is to improve the knowledge of officials in this area in order to reduce incorrect entries in the population register. Thank you for listening. I look forward to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U447	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U448	Thank you, Minister. The population register is a national information system and a database belonging to the information system, the controller of which is the Ministry of the Interior. I now understand from your report that certain entries start automatically, where the person no longer has to, the person responsible does not have to make any decision. For example, with regard to the residence notification, the AI accepts it, registers it, transfers it to the database, and so it goes. Has it not been an administrative decision to make such an amendment to the population register so far, but it has simply been a flow of information in the database, so to speak, that, in principle, we are legally not changing anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U449	Thank you for your question. It has been a data stream and because it is simply the information bases that have not yet been able to communicate with each other in this form, so that one information base can ask for data from another information base and thus "confirm" the accuracy of the data. Let me give you an example: if, for example, today a person wants to go to the population register, for example, to enter his place of residence or his address, then in the future, if this system now works, if everything goes well, on 1 January 2024, then, for example, the population register itself will search, for example, in the land register, in the electronic register, for example, for confirmation that this person has the right, for example, to register this place in his own name. Or, for example, at the time of the registration of the birth, the official had to, so-called received, went himself into the land register, checked, everything was right, made a decision. Maybe the clerk was sometimes in the future, machines can communicate with each other. Maybe you wouldn't call it an artificial intelligence. Or, for example, this birth registration is a situation where the database can then provide feedback after the first development, whether the selected name corresponds to the current name law, for example. In the past, the official had to check it himself, see it, in the future the machine says that yes, indeed such a name can be in Estonia and complies with the name law. A person disappears from time to time that he does not have to make the administrative decision or the workflow, as you rightly said, himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U450	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U451	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good minister! Let me ask you a little bit more. In this debate on the energy crisis, the Prime Minister has told us that our population register is so inaccurate that 20% of the data is incorrect. Listening to what you're saying, it's positive that you've taken steps to get these things straight by at least 2024. But my question really is that we are doing a population census at the same time, and if we are so wrong, there is a risk that the result of the census will actually be completely unusable. That's one side. And the second question is actually whether this data is so wrong that one fifth is completely unusable. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U452	Thank you for your question. The population register is, I dare say, one of the most important databases in Estonia, where all other databases consult and receive all very important information. The population register has become digitally obsolete today and the plan for the coming years is to bring the population register to a better level in terms of information technology. The fact that the population register may contain data that is not up-to-date may be entirely the case. Let me give you an example, which this draft, for example, simplifies and improves, is how quickly it is possible, for example, to include death data in the population register, for example, if a person has died abroad, that is to say, it creates more flexible opportunities and easier opportunities for a person whose loved one has died abroad, for example, and how he can make this data right in the population register. This may take quite a while today, as the requirements are very specific as to what this document must be on the basis of which the data should be entered in the population register. Now this new bill will make it easier. So there may be examples of this, in the case of a particular example, as I said, that the fixing of death in the population register may be present today, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U453	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U454	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your report, you told me about an extra place to live. Perhaps you will specify what an extra dwelling is and what is now specified by this law or whether we as citizens need to start writing something, just as many members of the Riigikogu live on several places, in Tallinn here somewhere in the client's apartment, and otherwise maybe there is somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U455	Thank you. A person doesn't have to do anything more. This bill creates the possibility that the owner of the room will receive an automatic notification if a person writes for an additional address, for example, in the dwelling he owns. In the past, the notification came automatically only if it was so to say to the address of the main residence, if someone fixes it as an additional address for themselves in the population register, then simply the owner of the space receives the notification.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U456	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U457	Good manager! Good waitress! I am reading here an interesting table that shows how many European citizens and England we have here, and who then has exactly how much residence and it turns out that there are 22 British people with a permanent right of residence here, but only one of them has an accurate residence in Estonia. And it doesn't turn out from the rest of the tables that where 21 have or if you look at the European Union and the economic area and Switzerland, there are 8410, but to 523 there is only a place of residence with Estonia's precision. So what does the seed table actually show, and why is it here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U458	That's a good question. I will also look at this table myself, and I will have to reply to you in writing later, because I really cannot explain to you right now that what is the purpose of this table when added to it in this form, added to it, but I will certainly be able to answer you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U459	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U460	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the registration of deaths in the local government, for which specialists receive appropriate training to do these things correctly. The weak link for me in this draft is that, in the absence of this specialist, someone else who has not completed the relevant training will replace him, which may in turn lead to the situation that a person who has not completed the same training, or, of course, that person who has completed the same training, may commit some kind of crime in connection with the fact that they register someone's death and that the registration of this death involves the sharing of an inheritance and so on and so on. Especially then can this be possible if, for example, let's say, the person is somewhere in a welfare institution where he cannot intervene in this process. What is the point of eliminating this bottleneck? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What could be the responsibility of this official in the punitive sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U461	Thank you. If we are now talking about this additional training for officials, these are the officials who are involved in the registration of residence and the issuing of personal codes. This is a specific group of officials. This has nothing to do with death reports. In this sense, your remark is correct that it is possible to register residence addresses and issue a personal identification code to a person even at the utmost opportunity if he or she has not completed this training. We have a very large number of very small local authorities, where it may not be reasonable to provide such training to several people and give such a right. However, if a person who has not received such training makes an entry, this will also be reported to the Ministry of the Interior, which is the controller of the data. In fact, a follow-up check will also be carried out in order to really make sure that these data are correctly entered there if this is done by a person who has not received this training in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U462	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U463	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also come to the topic of this extra place. In fact, the population register is an important database on the basis of which the Tax and Customs Board will also review the receipts and local governments will have a revenue base. There are times when two places of residence have also been discussed and where it is possible to divide your taxes between two places of residence. Has such a discussion been held at this stage of the bill that, if you have an extra dwelling, there are, in fact, costs in this other municipality, perhaps in the future it would be possible to count on and build this new registry base in such a way that it would also create the prerequisites for the redistribution of tax revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U464	Thank you for your question. The idea is very good, welcome. As far as I know, this draft will not be discussed in the process of drafting it in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U465	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U466	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good minister! You also referred in your speech to the fact that certain registration procedures are subject to an obligation or a duty on the part of the state to the municipalities of the county centre, and others have been deprived of this possibility. I actually, in itself, this approach is correct in the sense that at least one particular municipality has been designated in the county which has to comply with it. However, my question is whether it would be wise for others to have the opportunity to fulfil the obligation, but to fulfil the obligation. What do you think of this idea, and should the bill really change in this direction? Because it is important that a person still gets this service as closely as possible and if the municipality is interested and able to provide it, why not give him this right and opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U467	Thank you for your question. This use of the option is, in itself, very broad in the view that every person has the opportunity to look at the data themselves in the e-population register. If this option does not exist, the principle of the ideology of the matter is that if a particular local authority has the so-called root of this unit, it will provide the data specifically related to that local authority unit. Residence address, very specifically related to local government. And, in fact, this ideology, this idea has come precisely from the local authorities, that they do not want this additional opportunity, because the local authorities are small, it has costs and in this case it is as if no one is covering these costs. If it is, like, in the county centre, where it is so-called specifically assigned and it also covers the costs of the state fee, then that is where the idea has come from. The idea is certainly to be as flexible as possible, to make it as easy for people to use such a service, but once again, I think that today every person in Estonia also has the opportunity to receive, check, print out for themselves through the e-service, so you can actually do it at home. So that's the way it's going to be. If this is not an option, then you can go on the ground, but really with such a distinction at the moment in the view of this draft, as you yourself pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U468	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U469	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Today we have to admit that the PRIA animal registers are more accurate than the registers related to people in Estonia. The Prime Minister has also repeatedly referred here to the Riigikogu to the fact that the population register is so inaccurate that the current requests for compensation for electricity prices cannot be used as a basis for the population register, so that people themselves must declare and fill in these statements. But my question is that we have not exactly been able to operate the register with this basic residence in any way. We're talking about these extra addresses, too. What's the significance of these extra addresses? Do they have any legal meaning between a state and a citizen? Or what's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U470	Thank you. The point is that the state would have an awareness of what residential addresses people have, plus that the owner of the room would know if someone put his room as an extra address. For example, where quite a lot of such an opportunity was being used, unfortunately, during the first wave of the continuing COVID, when quite a number of people fixed their extra address on the islands where they had summer homes. Through this, for example, in a situation where the islands were closed, they were entitled to go to their cottage. And it was indeed written and confirmed in the population register that this person really owned such a residence there at such an address. So these are the principles at this extra address.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U471	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U472	Good manager! Dear Minister, When this draft is introduced and read, it is like trying to clarify the role of the responsibilities of local governments and the responsibilities of the state in the Population Register Act. But I have a feeling that this law actually has a different role and desire. This is the national fee of EUR 10 for the issuance of population register data. The draft does not distinguish, when establishing the state fee, whether the data is issued on paper or electronically, whether I understand that if the municipality has said that there is a role that the state should play and the state says that there is no money for it, then the state fee has now been paid. I know that when this government took up its position a year ago, it was said that taxes would not be raised, but I understand that they would still be raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U473	Thank you. Indeed, there is clarity in the house about the functions of the municipality in this view and the tasks of the state. Indeed, the functions of the municipality are to register a place of residence and these activities are free of charge to the person. The national tasks are all that is left aside, whether they are the granting of various civil status data, the custody rights with whom they live, married, death notices, these are the national tasks, they are carried out by the so-called "local authorities', but, as this entails a cost for the local government, the state pays them off and the activities are indeed state-paid. Indeed, the simplest activities are EUR 10, if you do at a notary, plus a notary fee of EUR 5 and, in fact, if it is there, if you need an English extract, for example, it is EUR 20, so that in fact these amounts are different there, but in the overall plan EUR 10, but once again, the person can look at his or her data from there and also take them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U474	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U475	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Well, I can tell you a little knuckle in the country's cup will come in handy at a difficult time. But I have such a specific question, for example, since someone has finished their marriage during the counseling period. Then it was all a great territory, from the Far East to this day. But here you are saying that the marriage will end on the date of the divorce in Russia, on the territory of the Russian Federation, but nowhere else, on the territory of the Soviet Union of Estonia or the USSR of Usbek or the Soviet Union of Belarus. What's the big brother's priority for such a little thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U476	First of all, thank you for your question. The money that comes through the state fees goes to local governments. This considerable cost, which is incurred by local governments and which is reimbursed through state fees, is EUR 70.08 to 80000 per year, so, in fact, in the view of the state budget, it is, of course, a small cost, but it is certainly very important for the local government that these costs are reimbursed. One of these has now been brought out of marriage. I cannot give you a good explanation here as to why he has been specifically formulated here by the experts. I can, of course, send you this information in writing as to why it has been brought out in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U477	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U478	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm a little worried about that extra address. It's like there's a chance that the state is trying to find out where you might live. If we don't get you from one place, if we need you, we'll definitely get you from that address. Does it include a certain point of internal security, that thing, and what happens when a person has a number of such extra addresses?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U479	Thank you for your question. It doesn't mean any more or less. And that's not the responsibility of any human being. This provision is designed to allow the information to reach the owner, that someone has used his space for the purpose that he has written it as an additional address. That is the only point in this provision, guaranteeing the rights of the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U480	Good minister, more questions for you... However, Helir-Valdor Seeder, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U481	I'm sorry, I'm late! You have repeatedly stressed that if the owner were to know if he was to be checked in, is this an additional address or is this the main place of residence, is it really the case now that, without the owner's knowledge and consent, it is possible to sign in anywhere, that your answers would give this impression?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U482	Yeah, basically it is. Although this space must comply with the so-called space definition, which is specifically described in the population register, it must be a living space. But yes, it can be done, and today, if it is the main address, it will also be communicated to the owner of the room, in particular, about such a rental market, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U483	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! And now by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U484	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. As rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can confirm the Minister's words. The minister described, I think, the level of detail for which the draft law has been put in place and what it wants to change. If, in conclusion, I should say it myself, then it seems a very rational and correct thing, an e-state closer to a person, a number of procedures more comfortable. While perhaps describing what was discussed at the committee meeting in a few words, the overall tonality and attitude were positive in relation to the draft law. There were questions, there were reservations, some of which have already sounded from here in the form of members of the Commission, particularly in Mr Grünthal's case. In particular, a ten-euro state fee. Mr Mölder, as a member of the Commission, was the one who asked whether it was necessary and for what and how much the initiator of the draft envisages that it would collect funds. But, as the Minister said, the essence of the state is to raise my interpretation from one pocket to another, and ultimately these state fees go to the municipal service. Indeed, such a request has come from the municipalities and appeals have been made to the question that they should not bear the responsibilities of the State from their own resources alone. As has also been the case, in the order of EUR 60000 to EUR 70000, the annual collection collected in the form of state fees could be the same. But I assure you that every person included in the population register will continue to be able to access and download their data at the address of the Population Register.ee free of charge. And if there really are some instances that require and expect the temple of the state, confirmation of this, then a fee is to be paid. Several technical nuances to go. Indeed, the draft and explanatory memorandum are described in which terms and in which municipalities the data can be accessed. The centre has been brought in to understand the municipalities, i.e. the circa of 16 municipalities, and the county centre is then able to obtain data in an extended form, in particular regarding custody and similar matters. A number of other factors appear to have been made more reasonable in the draft law. There has been a reduction in bureaucracy, a reduction in paperwork. I would like to give you one example of the fact that, until now, which has been said before in the Commission, I did not personally know that all the activities to date, such as birth procedures, have gone to the population register, even to the ministry. They don't do it anymore, it doesn't make sense. It will be taken care of by artificial intelligence, as has been said previously. The only thing that remains on paper in a particular paragraph are divorces, where there is a very specific reason: there are signatures from both sides below, so that an act or action can later be identified. What else? I'm trying to get in my head right now. Yes, one again, when it comes to flexibility in the case of the draft, the acceptance of paternity, which has so far required a real presence in the case of the law, is now a much more flexible solution, and it can be done through the video bridge. At the Commission meeting, a number of questions were raised on the subject of whether, for example, this would be applicable to people in prison. Yes, it is applicable to video bridge and notary, but why not also for fathers on a mission, for example. Again, to make it easier and more flexible for people to have access to national activities. So many procedural decisions that, in fact, the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, was supposed to be here today, but in an extraordinary committee meeting today, this decision was consensually amended, I am here before you. And other decisions from the 11th day protocol: to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, consensual, Mr Grünthal and Kivimägi, Mrs Loone, Mr Mölder and Mrs Tiidus have signed it. That's right. It seems reasonable to move forward, and I have a sincere belief that we are doing a good thing. Your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U485	Looks like the Minister got all the questions. No questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U486	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is undoubtedly welcome for the government to bring such a bill to the Riigikogu, because if you now believe in the Prime Minister, which I do have some doubts that 20% of today's population register data are wrong, there is really reason to address the problems. On the other hand, I also agree with and agree with this, as the Minister has pointed out here that these problems have been encountered, and I fully agree with the fact that today's population register has fallen behind in its IT solution and needs to be looked at seriously. The population register by its nature is indeed one of the most important databases we have in the country and it is extremely important for municipalities as well. And that is why it is also understandable why the registration of a place of residence arose repeatedly here in the round of questions. This has been a problem in the sense that there are data in the register that sometimes do not correspond to reality. And on this basis, municipalities also provide different services, and through the provision of these services, attempts have been made to win over residents, i.e. to get dead souls, figuratively speaking, into the population register. The most notorious of this is the free transport of Tallinn, where people were officially invited to write down on the radio. Now we can soon celebrate the ten-year anniversary of this action, and I hope it will sink into such a past and people will quietly be ready to come back. But it actually describes the importance of this register. And, of course, it is extremely important that he is also IT-driven in order to avoid such tricks. It may not now be so precisely stated in this bill, but keeping an eye on this idea is actually extremely important. And some other nuances that deserve attention here in fact and also provide an opportunity, perhaps a little bit more, to reduce such bureaucracy or to increase the efficiency of the state and local authorities. Is everything supposed to be printed out after all? It has also been said here that it is important for some of the operations to be followed by a printout and then sent to the archive or to where it is intended. Perhaps it would be wise that, once the municipality has carried out these activities, the corresponding printouts are already done on site where they are to be kept on paper, so that there is no pointless and dubious activity. And another thought to this is what I asked the Minister and what really deserves to be considered. I understand the municipalities, having also been the head of the municipality, that the state is very lightly placing certain obligations on the municipality and not compensating them. Now there is a solution where, through the state fee, they are intended to be reimbursed and in this sense are actually... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U487	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U488	In this sense, the solution is appropriate. True, there is a rise in the amount of this state fee, and is it as if it were right to do so, but in principle, I understand that. And here I would also like to point out that if we have managed to dispel the fear of local governments by covering the real costs, it would be worth considering once again that we have county centres, those municipalities where certain operations need to be carried out, but if we have municipalities where there is competence and capacity, then it would be wise to allow them to do the same. It also gives local governments the opportunity to develop their staff and staff skills qualitatively and, on the other hand, to bring services closer to their people. This is also an idea that should now be taken into account when dealing with this draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U489	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 494 SE. That concludes our first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U490	The fifth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the National Export Guarantee Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission has proposed a final vote and now the political groups are able to speak in the negotiations. We don't seem to want that, so we're going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the National Guarantee of Export Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 423 SE. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U491	74 members of the Riigikogu supported the draft, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U492	Our sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 470 SE. I'm opening negotiations. No call request. We have the commission's proposal to carry out... However, Mrs Akkermann would like the floor. Smarter fingers, faster fingers! I understand that we did not have a long vote in the meantime, but still, please, please! Please! I'm just filling in the time you get here on the remote. Now, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Annely Akkermann.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U493	Yeah, well, don't go overboard too much. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. During the second reading of the draft Maritime Safety Act number 470 in this Chamber, my colleague, Peeter Ernits, resented the need to spend time transposing a directive that is unlikely to apply in Estonia for economic geography reasons. However, the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental rights of the European Union and the principle of free movement of persons also concerns the freedom of workers to apply for and receive employment in another Member State. We know that tens of thousands of Estonians use this fundamental right daily and for years since Estonia joined the European Union in 2004. The list of these agencies has obviously not been drawn up by anyone, and in fact there is no need for it. On the other hand, there are posts where training and traineeships need to be completed and safety skills need to be updated systematically. Estonian inland navigation, transport of passengers and goods within the meaning of the directive to be transposed is irregular, is carried out only in the local interest and seasonally and is not linked to other countries. Estonia has made use of the possibility to transpose the Directive at a minimum level, which means that Estonia is exempted from the obligation to transpose the provisions relating to the certificate of qualification, but is obliged to recognise Union certificates of qualification in its territory in order to promote the mobility of workers in the Union. I really believe that every worker must be guaranteed the fundamental right of the European Union to move and work freely. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that is why this draft is worth the time it takes for its procedure, purely because of the principle. Today, after the hours of tabling and discussing amendments to the draft had long expired, my e-mail was received from Indrek Särje, the head of the study line for inland navigation at the Estonian Marine School. The main content of the visit was that if the drivers of inland waterway vessels from other countries can come to work in Estonia, Estonian inland waterway ship drivers should be able to go to work in other countries. In terms of the directive to be transposed by today's draft, this would mean that the directive should be transposed in full, which in turn means aligning the training of inland waterway vessel drivers with the Directive and establishing registers, procedures and supervision necessary for the administration of certificates of qualification. At least now there are no jobs in Estonia that would require such certificates of qualification, which in turn means that there are no traineeships. According to my personal understanding, the Estonian maritime education system and professional qualifications registers are already facing quite complex tasks and we do not need to prepare our people for inland navigation in other countries. And I believe that we do not need to return to the full transposition of this directive. However, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support and vote in favour of this draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U494	There are no more wishes for words on the part of the political groups, but since there was one, we must also carry out a call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic 470. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U495	The draft was supported by 51 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U496	Our seventh item is the draft law on the implementation of the European Union's Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds for the period 20212027 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The speech chair is welcome by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please! Mr. Grünthal, you have a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U497	The concern is what I have already said three times in this Chamber, that there are very many regulations and different articles and paragraphs of the European Parliament and the Council and so on. Since Article 62 of our Rules of Procedure provides that the documents on which the agenda is to be discussed must be available at the beginning of the sitting, why have these regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council not been included here so that we do not have to search for them anywhere in the internet? Let me remind you that you have ordered this question to be repeated in the run-up to this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U498	Yeah, I suggested you ask the Minister for the contents. As far as the standards themselves are concerned, I generally suggest you look at the norm rules. The rules on reference and how a single piece of legislation is to be drawn up are well set out in the norm rules. In substance, I believe the Minister is certainly competent to answer you in relation to the entire draft. But according to the rules of regulation, we are preparing drafts, or rather the Government of the Republic prepares them, here we are reviewing them, so, of course, not all the acts referred to need to be in the legislation. Madam Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U499	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government has presented you with a draft law that bears such a beautiful name as "the draft law implementing the European Union's cohesion and internal security policy funds" 20212027. The content and point of this draft, as the title says, is to establish a legal framework for the use and implementation of the corresponding European Union funds for 2021 to 2029, i.e. to regulate, in a simpler way, the way in which grants, the collection of applications and decision-making are organised through these funds. This legal framework is pretty much based on the right of the previous European Union budget period, i.e. the Structural Support Act for the years 2014 to 2020. The authorities involved in the implementation of the Funds, their roles, tasks and responsibilities, as well as the rights and obligations of the beneficiary, will not change much. However, some simplifications have been introduced. So, figuratively or figuratively, you could say that this law is thinner in terms of different requirements and easier to monitor for the applicant. Estonia's priorities for the introduction of money in Parliament are due to the objectives of the long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" discussed in depth over a long period of time, as well as the objectives set in the sectoral development plans and the country-specific recommendations given to Estonia during the European semester process. Specific areas financed and specific objectives will be agreed between Estonia and the European Commission in the implementation plan. The targets and results that we are setting can, to a certain extent, be changed again throughout this period, in agreement with the European Commission, should the need arise. A list of support measures to be approved by the Government of the Republic is planned for the national performance management and monitoring of the operational programme. All external subsidies, such as you, a good Parliament, are certainly well known, are planned in the process of the state budget strategy and state budget, in the same way as the state budget money. The draft is intended to enter into force as usual. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U500	Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu want to ask, Helmen Kütt starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U501	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! My question here comes from a table of comments and proposals concerning the attention of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, and it concerns the issue of equal treatment and in a non-discriminatory way, that unfortunately it is not here, although the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for this matter, but that does not mean that other projects carried out with European Union funding could ignore the principles agreed in the European Union. I also read the part of this explanation, but since there are several here, the Estonian Human Rights Centre also turns to the same concern and draws attention here to the fact that it is also the accessibility task force that has worked at the State Chancellery 2020 to 2021 that their proposals also concern whether it is reasonable to add to the explanatory memorandum, as far as the explanatory memorandum is concerned, to the subject of communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U502	Thank you. We can think about that, if necessary, in the explanatory memorandum, we can write or explain further. In general, I also deliberately emphasised the importance of my introduction to "Estonia 2035," because it is indeed a document that is based on the substance and there is another subject where there have been questions about whether and how it should be mentioned separately in this law. If this is a horizontal issue, which is certainly also quite important in "Estonia 2035," it has not needed to be brought out here in any way, but let's look at whether to correct or clarify the explanatory statement if necessary, so let's do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U503	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U504	Good manager! Dear Minister, We have now had the Prime Minister two days to talk about the energy crisis on the one hand and the security crisis on the other today. Can you give a few examples of what could now be funded in the coming periods to improve energy and security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U505	Thank you. That's a very good question. It is true that this particular draft is not directly related. However, it is still an opportunity to recall the debate that you and I held here a few months ago on the planning and introduction of euro money. In the financing plan for the Cohesion Funds, we have planned energy savings of over EUR 400 million. So this is the first example that comes to mind. Certainly this current situation, the situation with regard to energy prices, has made the thoughts and plans-plans to invest in energy savings particularly topical for a very large number of people. Concretely, for example, reconstruction and energy-saving of apartment buildings, but also to improve the energy efficiency of health institutions, EUR 396 million is planned. That's a lot of money. And further, in addition to this, for example, 35 million to promote the deployment of renewable energy with sustainable energy consumption. In fact, the circular economy also receives quite an important injection of money through these same funds. In fact, if we mention such major areas, we will be contributing a great deal, hundreds of millions of euros in the coming years, to research and development, to the development of a more research-intensive Estonia through these funds. So I think that all of this, as a whole, supports the same objective of making our society more resilient to difficult situations, and certainly contributes directly to energy saving by contributing financially to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U506	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U507	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As I recall, you also went to the Committee on European Union Affairs to present these facts to us on the priorities of 2035. And I ask you this: as regards the measure implementing these funds, Estonia has a comprehensive plan to change the organisation of health care. Let me remind you, what is behind this concept? This health care organisation is responsible for emergency care, general medical care, emergency medical care, specialised medical care, nursing care, etc. Since it is planned to amend the 'wholesome' health care organisation, what are the different ways in which these changes are now going to be done, so how will it be provided by general medical care and these other things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U508	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. You have two things a little confused at the moment that what you are referring to, and which was also the debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs, probably concerned the European Union's recovery facility, the so-called RRF, where Estonia also had very long negotiations with the European Commission, and which is part of this response to the current one, or I do not know whether we are already talking about one of these current crises, the Coronary Crisis, the Health Crisis, and this is really about social investment, health investment. At the European Union Affairs Committee, we discussed in quite detail, for example, the financing of Tallinn Hospital and the fact that either such a large investment in Tallinn or in the region of Tallinn, whether and how it helps to improve the quality of health care itself. However, this does not concern the draft law on the implementation of the cohesion and internal security policy funds that we are discussing here. The RRF, or the recovery facility, is separate from it, and perhaps if we look here for such a link, then it must be said that putting together the recovery fund, the negotiations that have been around the recovery facility, has been one of the reasons why, unfortunately, the implementation of the whole budget for 2021 and 2027 has not been as quick as originally expected. That this crisis has simply taken its time and these additional decisions, additional funds and measures have slightly delayed the implementation of this framework that is currently before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U509	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U510	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am asking about the problem raised by the Council of Rectors. Ex-ante controls on public procurement carried out by the implementing entity could give the beneficiary a legally binding assurance that the procurement procedure already verified and approved will not become ineligible ex post in disregard of the principle of legal certainty. This is actually a serious problem. In the public media too, scientists have raised this problem and said that controls have already gone to a level that we will find when we come. It's like we have a commitment, well, if you can't get more, well, we'll get 1,000 euros, but it'd be good if we could still get 100,000. This has been a serious concern. Would it not have been possible to resolve this issue? According to the current bill, it is actually said that this cannot be done. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Wouldn't it be wise to solve it in a way that would have been taken to the Ministry of Finance or...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U511	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U512	... the state attached to a specific fund that covers it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U513	Mr Reinsalu and Mr Ligi! I apologize for a moment, Madam Secretary. You're not in the role of answering today, you're in the role of questioning. Take this opportunity to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U514	Thank you, good questioner! It was a long introduction, but it was a little confusing how this fund could have dealt with this concern in particular, so it is difficult to comment on it. But, of course, the use of money must still be purposeful. This does not mean that it should be as you described in your question. I don't think we should go to one extreme or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U515	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U516	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have spoken to you in this Chamber a great many times about the fact that one of the biggest concerns about the allocation of funds in the previous period was that there was no regional distribution in place so that the funds could eventually reach Estonia's rural areas and small towns. If you look at this bill, it hasn't actually been put in place here. Perhaps it can be said that each ministry can take these measures as such under its responsibility, but also in previous periods, the same answer has been that yes, ministries can do so. However, unfortunately, last time has tended to go, and as far as I know now, for example, these areas, for example as regards business grants, do not have this regional distinction and perhaps also the differentiation of ownership so much in the plan. Tell me why this regional part is missing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U517	Thank you. I do not agree that he is missing, and by the Ministry of Finance, a guideline on the differentiation of aid rates calculated on the basis of a separate local government revenue base has now also gone out. This means, in other words, that those municipalities with a higher income base per capita must put in place and place more self-financing, and those that are somehow disadvantaged in this situation would have less self-financing. It's done by now. Of course, when developing the conditions for each specific grant, it must be decided whether and how precise differentiation makes sense. He might not make sense everywhere. So we have to look at this in the case of a specific example, but, as I said, we have sent out such a guideline by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U518	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U519	Good manager! Minister, first of all, thank you for the answers to the previous question. I ask that, since we have been discussing this energy crisis here for several days, whether there have been issues such as Estlink 3, which needs quite a lot of money, and the other, which unfortunately was abandoned in 2014, in the opinion of the then Prime Minister, is a LNG terminal. The Prime Minister has claimed that, thanks to Russian gas, we have high electricity prices, although we disagree in the Chamber. But the second is definitely that the two cables between Finland and Estonia have clearly not been enough for today. If Eesti Energia has bought a wind farm in Finland, it would still be possible. Maybe we should discuss these things and think about it here before we're second-reading and make some adjustments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U520	Thank you, good questioner! However, this draft does not apply to such detail and to specific projects. Indeed, this draft concerns, let us say, the organisation, the organisational side, the way in which specific financing decisions are taken and the rules on which they are based, that is more general. And the examples you mentioned, of course, have gone through government discussions. In fact, this list is much, much longer, as you have been discussing in this House recently, so I think we can have a completely separate debate on these issues. Unfortunately, this does not apply to this particular draft at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U521	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U522	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is a bit paradoxical in the context of today's agenda that, in the context of global European cooperation, we are looking at the Estonian-Russian programme and possible cooperation, which is one of Interreg instruments. I ask how, when we talk here about Russia, about the threat of war, about the tense situation, about how this Interreg cooperation has gone and what else have we gone there, or what is this new period plan in the context of cooperation between Estonia and Russia? Can you open some of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U523	Thank you. Interreg, of course, is wider and it is true that this context is, to put it mildly, complex. But I do know that you've had environmental issues that are very close to your heart over the years. I think that one of the most immediate examples of this area that affects the two countries is Lake Peipsi, the Baltic Sea, for example, in the same way, but directly between Estonia and Russia, where we have often had a number of questions on the Estonian side, whether we are doing our efforts to maintain and improve this environmental status, or whether the other side is doing the same, in any case the impact of the other side's decisions on us as well. Both for this region, for these people, and for fishermen, for example, who are affected in the same way, but are certainly directly affected by the state of the environment. So, unfortunately, on certain issues, we also need to show ourselves demanding about our neighbour.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U524	Urmas Reinsalu order, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U525	Thank you, good waitress. A good report, informative. But I must admit that I do not agree with this paradigm that it has been said here that Parliament has been introduced into the law on implementation. I think that Parliament is not an executive agency for billions of euros in a parliamentary country. It is our task to determine the organisation of these funds by law; it must be the law of organisation. And this is not just a formal reference, but it means first of all that, in essence, the doctrine of the current law is structured in such a way that, in the regulations, the ministers are actually going to share this money and I do not agree with the approach to this principle. In fact, in the explanatory memorandum and in the text of the law, there are no policy objectives and areas in which this money is to be channelled. It's a frying dish. The technical framework has been discussed here, and we are handing over a mandate to ministers to decide billions of euros. And it is no wonder that a handful of billions has been sent out to give an opinion to a handful of organisations, and we will see that the actual process of engagement has been completed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Madam Secretary, let's repair this project, put it on your feet. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U526	Thank you. I generally like to look at things more on my feet than on my head. But as a designer of the former long-term Estonian legal space, not only as an implementer or organiser, you certainly know that this particular draft and the role of Parliament in this whole process are the result of the laws in force. It is Parliament that is shaping these laws and, at the moment, you honourable Members have shaped these laws in the way that the framework has been put forward, which is why you have before you the very draft that it is. I have said in the past that the very same, if I am not mistaken, is also in exchange with you, so that Parliament's role, precisely in setting such longer-term objectives, targets, could and should be much more substantive and greater and I look forward and am inclined to this role being set out in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U527	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U528	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As regards the municipalities and the different rates of their caterers there, this is very good. It's very good what you do. But, in fact, studies on the use of money in recent periods show that the problem is, for example, national measures, that in the end, money is still concentrated in Harjumaa and not in other regions. And the recommendations that experts have made are that, in fact, regions should be designated regionally. I would nevertheless continue to stress that it is most necessary for business grants, because they create and support jobs and the development of entrepreneurship elsewhere, as well as those golden circles. But unfortunately, we can't find that in this bill. Which is why my question to you is this: would you consider and be prepared from here by the government to make these changes so that we can ensure that this money also regionally reaches rural and small towns?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U529	Thank you. At the level of the law, it is very difficult to hit everyone with a single rod, in the sense of writing into the law for all the different measures used, I don't know, coefficient or percentage. That is why, in answering your previous question, I also stressed that this particular solution, differentiation, must still be seen in the development of the conditions for each specific grant. In some cases it may be, figuratively speaking, 30% self-financing; in some other places it may be possible to achieve the same goal through a whole other way. I would therefore rather be afraid than try to regulate it at the level of the law, because if it were to be "locked" at the level of the law, we could discover ourselves after a while in a situation where the result is quite the opposite. So I think that the aim is reasonable, but in each particular case, the specific conditions for granting support must be looked at. It is not universal, in that sense it is not always everywhere and across all measures. I'm afraid that's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U530	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U531	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! My second question comes from the Council of Rectors. What is actually explained here in the material contained in the draft is relatively round, it is not the root that comes out so that it can be taken into account. Rectors suggest that VAT could actually be an eligible cost for projects below EUR 5 million, and the answer is that it cannot actually be, because the public sector cannot, like, be reimbursed twice. I understand that, in the context of the answer, this was a problem or a justification that, if universities are already subject to VAT, of course the same things will not be recovered twice, but in certain cases this project may not be refundable with VAT, this cost. In this case, would you still be able to calculate VAT for universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U532	Thank you, good questioner! You ask, you try to ask a very complex and yet very detailed question within a minute. I think this is a subject where we should probably open up more precisely, if necessary, what exactly were you thinking. As a general rule, we have had a very good and sensible exchange of ideas with the Council of Rectors during the drafting process, so I will not start again now, it is difficult to answer with this level of detail, but if necessary, we will find a way to deal with it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U533	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U534	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. As a member of the Support Group on Prevention of Relationship Violence, I discovered with surprise that the Estonian Human Rights Centre, the Chamber of Disabled People, the Women's Research and Information Centre, Oma Tuuba is very upset with you and say, for example, that we are pointing out that projects must be carried out in a non-discriminatory way, or that, as the Women's Research Centre says, these guidelines, this gender mainstreaming, good practices and further strengthening of the award of higher marks must be emphasised in particular, but the Human Rights Centre sums up the exclusion of the principle of gender equality from the draft that you are currently offering us, Minister, is particularly reactionary. And I now ask why, as a female minister, you come out with such a particularly backward bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U535	Thank you, Honourable Asker. It is nice to hear that you take seriously your membership of this parliamentary group, which will certainly deal with a very important issue. And just as in the reply to the questioners you referred to, as we emphasise there, and just as I actually answered Helmen Küti's question earlier, all these requirements are covered by the principles of Estonia in 2035 and Estonia in 2035 is basically the basis of this whole bill. So they're pretty, and they're all covered up in a prominent place.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U536	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U537	Thank you. Madam Secretary! In fact, the situation is that there are no substantive plans for Parliament to share this EUR 3 billion. We know that. One debate was, the budget control committee..., and there came up a series of complaints or expectations from various interest organisations, businesses, academia and also political parties. Jürgen, don't have to be so... The question is, my problem is that please, Madam Minister, because this is the first place in this Parliament where we are talking about sharing this EUR 3 billion, please give us a brief approach to which areas and projects this money will be channelled. And tell us how much the European Union's resources are earmarked for insulation projects, and how much is actually planned for power generation capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U538	Thank you, good questioner! Well, then! If I remember correctly, I think you were one of the organisers when we discussed planning EU money in this Chamber even before the government discussed it. This debate was very substantive, and, as I said on that occasion, every time a committee or a group of Parliament , with your group, we have discussed and discussed the European Union's money separately, or whoever thinks it is necessary to hold this debate in detail and to continue it in this Chamber, I am always prepared and happy to participate at any time. Just call it! I'm waiting for an invitation to this hall, so far you haven't taken the initiative. Now, I don't think you were in this Chamber when one of your fellow Members asked a bit of a similar question about this 3.3 billion distribution and, if necessary, I will repeat my answer, particularly as regards energy efficiency, investment in energy savings. EUR 396 million is designed to reconstruct apartment buildings, but also to increase energy efficiency in health care institutions and hospitals. 35 million more to finance sustainable energy consumption and renewable energy capacity. EUR 143 million for climate change adaptation and preparedness, both in terms of saving capacity, the development of environmental, weather and support systems. 111 million to finance the circular economy and green innovation. Sustainable mobility, cycling routes, park and travel solutions, also tram traffic, Tallinn tram traffic receives 96 million euros. And smarter Estonia, which is designed to increase innovation capacity, which is designed to increase research capacity, but also to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises for example, will receive funding of EUR 742 million for the development of e-state. Even more investment in environmentally friendly transport, which concerns the development of railways, reconstruction. For 20 million euros, municipalities can develop light traffic routes to make it more comfortable and safer to travel by bicycle. A separate EUR 215 million to link learning to the needs of the labour market to finance lifelong learning. 96 million to invest in social and health infrastructure. And so on. This is a reminder of the debate we have had before in this Chamber and, as has been said, if it is ready for Parliament to go further in detail on this issue, I am happy to participate in it and I believe that all the other members of the government will do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U539	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U540	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The point of the first reading is, however, that the Minister in the field gives an overview of the content of the draft, what it covers, what it deals with, what is as an objective and what is the result. Right now, you've explained everything in a very narrow way with nothing to say. To be honest, for those who are not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and who do not have the opportunity to participate in that committee, where you promised to explain everything, it will remain confusing. I don't know how much you know about this bill, whether you know or not, but I certainly have not received an overview of this bill. But I have a question now. Maybe it'll clear up. What will become better for Estonia when this bill is adopted? Bring up three key principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U541	Thank you, good questioner! It is true that during the debate on the draft, I can answer the questions that are being asked. As I have also said to some of the questioners, not all the questions have been directly related to this draft, but nevertheless, I understand that it has been important and interesting for Members. It would have been strange if I hadn't answered them. So don't get mad about it. I think this debate has actually been necessary. What are the changes? The amendments relate, for example, to some of the provisions that were currently in force in the law at the level of the law, which has now been brought to the level of the regulation. We are going to quite a bit of detail, but since you asked, for example, authorities acting as implementing bodies or as an implementing body, especially ministries, but also the Environmental Investment Centre, which is still an implementing body, it is not necessary, until they start to organise a round of applications or establish the conditions for applications for funds, to apply in any way separately for the authorisation of the managing authority, which has been a bureaucratic condition in the current law. Similarly, monitoring arrangements are, in fact, already somewhat simpler. A previous questioner also referred to a rather cumbersome monitoring arrangement so far. It's gotten easier now. Then your colleague and the colleague sitting before you asked about one issue, which is a cross-cutting requirement now and which will indeed be covered by the country's long-term development strategy, or "Estonia 2035." I think that perhaps this most important substantive change is that there is now a direct link between the strategy document "Estonia 2035" discussed in Parliament and the channelling and use of European Union money. I think that, in substantive terms, this is one of the most important changes and that is what this draft is based on, as I said in the introduction. Its underlying document is essentially "Estonia 2035."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U542	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U543	Thank you, Minister. I guess we've been working pretty hard in the state and taxpayers' wallets here in the Riigikogu today, since that 380 million in defence. But I'm coming up with 3.37 billion in this context with my question. I'm looking at different co-financing rates here. Would you be so kind as to say that 2021/2027 year, that what we, the taxpayer, are contributing to this package in order to carry out all these activities to a lesser extent, what commitment have we taken into account in the budget strategy, or are we taking into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U544	Thank you, good question! It's worth over a billion, and I'll send you a euro number if I have to, but that's the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U545	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I might continue with Mr Kingo's question as to what will become better by this law. I ask: in very detailed terms, the explanatory memorandum explains and you have also talked about what will change for the system, the implementing agencies, the implementing bodies, monitoring assessments, sectoral committees, etc., within the system for those who share the money. But does anything change for those who are beneficiaries, grant applicants, promoters, financial intermediaries? There is a great deal of talk about the fact that this whole system is very clumsy, very bureaucratic, not at all the face of the beneficiary or the applicant for the grant, etc. And when I look at the basic changes in the law, they once again concern this bureaucratic system and its structure and organisation. But does anything improve for ordinary organisations and people who seek and receive money? This is the third period we are going to solve, the third law concerning ordinary organisations, people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U547	The foundations are becoming more uniform. This is one thing that has been criticised for the fact that the various grant decision-makers have had relatively different practices in the past and this has often been confusing for grant applicants. More and more, there is also a way of using simplified costs in the case of euro payments, which means that the results, the corresponding price, or there is no need to prove certain types of costs and can be covered at the agreed rate. This is one example that will certainly simplify this process for grant applicants. More and more emphasis is placed on the design of grants, also on "customer view" or customer comfort. And yet the consolidation of the implementation system, which is not always very popular among those involved in the distribution of grants, makes it easier for the applicant to see that, if there are, there are not dozens and dozens of institutions between which the orientation must be practiced and studied. And there are also no very extensive regulations, but the implementation system has been consolidated so that unnecessary bureaucracy is minimised where possible and so that support can be provided as quickly as possible anyway, is as efficient as possible and on an equal footing as possible, so that these are some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U548	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U549	Good manager! Good minister! I wonder, just in case, whether I correctly understood that mainstreaming the so-called gender aspect, the introduction of good practices and the introduction of higher scores for distributed money are the main text of Estonia 2035 which states how to distribute these large euros. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U550	You have rightly understood that Estonia in 2035 is the basis for planning the distribution of grants and that all the objectives that are set are linked to it. So if you understand that, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U551	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U552	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to get a little bit clearer for myself. Perhaps you can tell us what the priorities discussed in the draft are more important. What are the most focused topics?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U553	Thank you. Since this is a draft which, as several questioners have pointed out, deals with the organisational side of granting grants, the ultimate aim is, firstly, to keep it as simple as possible, to keep the applicant customer friendly. And it is also important for the same managing authorities, both implementing authorities and implementing bodies, so that things are clearly regulated and there is no overregulation and there is no excessive bureaucracy, but the framework and rules are in place. So this is the frame he will give for the next budgetary period of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U554	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U555	Thank you. Since my previous job was the head of European funds at the Ministry of Culture, maybe I'm asking very technical questions, but they're on my heart. § 11 and § 31. § 11 talks about restoring the deadline and, in comparison with the normal administrative procedure, this law prohibits the period from being reinstated if, in any event, the applicant for the grant, for example, sleeps for five minutes by submitting a request for the restorative of his computer systems. And the second, as far as the appeal procedure is concerned, that the same difference with the HMS is that, if HMS gives the possibility of filing an appeal, this law obliges people not to be able to go to court, it requires them to go through an appeal procedure. Can you explain why we are restricting people's rights compared to such a general administrative procedure that deadlines are not reinstated and we are imposing a challenge?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U556	Thank you. This, especially the last part of your question, was, in fact, well under discussion in the course of the drafting of this bill and, after hearing really well the various parties or diametrically different positions, the cabinet found that it is reasonable to go through this appeal procedure in such a way and, of course, the hope is that in this case, fewer examples will arrive in a later dispute before the court and these solutions can be obtained first. Now, the deadline for reinstating ex this general logic has still been that all applicants treated equally, that no one later did... Those who have submitted for a period of time, or those who, taking all the rules into account from the outset, have applied for such requirements, would not later feel that they have been treated in any way unfairly or unequally in comparison with others who have not immediately done so. This has probably been one of the main reasons why he eventually got into the bill in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U557	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U558	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is very nice that with each budget period we really learn from experience, change the rules, make things better, more transparent, easier. Hopefully, also with regard to the results that we will achieve with the structural instruments, so that these results will continue to improve. One aspect that has actually been measured and weighed down is this regional impact. We have very large regional disparities, and so far the experts' assessment has been that structural instruments have not allowed this balance to be improved and reduced. In what way are the regulations of the measure which are issued under this law, which are the ways of making more favourable conditions, such as for rural areas? What has been the direction of the Ministry of Finance to ensure that structural funds do not amplify regional differences?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U559	Thank you. It is seen that this topic is important to you because the same content was asked about half an hour earlier too. I also explained to the previous questioner that when we talk about the guideline, the Ministry of Finance has really issued a guideline on the differentiation of rates calculated on the basis of the income base of local governments. In other words, those municipalities with a higher income base per capita would also have a higher self-financing rate, so that they would put more self-financing, and vice versa, those with a lower income base per capita or who are disadvantaged in this sense, would put less self-financing. Whether and for which grants such differentiation is justified must be decided at the time of designing each specific support measure, as there are certainly examples where this may not always be justified. You can't always solve it the same way. There must be flexibility to use, for example, the differentiation of self-financing, where separate funding rounds should be carried out, for example, specifically for cities and then for the rest of the regions. In this respect, I think it would make sense for some flexibility to be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U560	Good Minister, no more questions for members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U561	Great, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U562	Jürgen Ligi is now welcome here by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U563	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance proposed that the first reading of this draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 February. If we reflect this debate, perhaps a longer debate took place on this very subject, which has been said several times here, whether this euro money should not be better targeted regionally so that it does not increase inequality, regional inequality. The Minister replied here several times, but I would like to bring another view, which sounded strongly in the committee, that we really must not make this conceptual mistake, that we call euro money something different from other budget money. We cannot sow euro money simply regardless of the number of people and their activities, which are related to all finances, to public finances. So in this sense, this is clearly an over-enhancing issue. There is nothing so specific about euro money that it is he who has to go against this regional matter and other policies in any way. And the third reason, of course, is that a number of euro money-funded things are all-Estonian. It cannot be said that we are allowed to dismember Estonia in this way and precisely outside Tallinn. These attempts have been, after all, that it is then outside Tallinn that we use euro money, that there has been a lot of these experiments, and they are, as a rule, that these rules have usually been rejected or always imposed. And another reminder that regional policy in general does not mean that small pieces of land such as Estonia's own regions are divided into regions, but it is quite the same region, which does not mean that every government does not try, not every Riigikogu would try to finance the regions farther away from Tallinn and to stimulate life there, including with euro money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U564	There's no questions. I'm opening negotiations. For the Socialists, Lauri Western Forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U565	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With these European Union instruments, this is the problem that everything has been caught in the previous period and in the previous period. And here we have just heard the speech of the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we will continue to try this time. And you know what the result of trying is that one of the biggest effects of regional inequality in Estonia is that of misallocation of the European Union's resources. In essence, we are doing this today with this bill here and with this attitude that we are trying and seeing how it can, in fact we are doing that this inequality is continuing and should not be. On the contrary, the concept of the European Union, in fact, is the logic of giving these funds, why does the European Union give these funds to those regions that are economically less capable than perhaps some other countries, well they are given more of this money to reduce the differences and differences that exist between countries in Europe. [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! The same principle of using this money should also apply in Estonia. If we do not now make these differences and think about Estonia's small towns and rural areas, then the question arises immediately, but how do we do this regional policy in the first place? That, when we take the analyses of recent periods, drawn up either by the Ministry of Finance, Praxis, the Human Development Report, they all say very clearly, literally the same thing: the use of European Union funds in the way it has been done in the past and, as the same draft currently envisages, increases regional inequality. This is reflected in people's income, the development of entrepreneurship, workplaces. And the reason for this, and that is one of the most important reasons, which then also affects people moving to large cities from these rural areas. We in this Parliament, in my opinion, should not say that we will see how it goes. I recall, in the last period, exactly the same thing, the Ministry of Finance, the other parties, the government's own decisions were that, yes, we try to share this money regionally fairly, so that it distributes fairly. What was the result? The reports say that it still happened that most of the concentration in the golden circles is very easy, it is very easy to concentrate, if we are taking national measures, do what you want, but the company based in Harju County is both significantly more resource-efficient in terms of knowledge than very many companies in small areas of Estonia and simply more capable. And because he writes a better project, he gets the money and that's why it's unseenly concentrated here in Harjumaa. But he shouldn't be like that, he should be, our job should be to ensure that this money is distributed in balance. And now that we are talking about this, let us see today that these measures are being prepared, that which ministries have this regional balance in mind and which do not. It has to be said that the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Finance itself is also concerned with the fact that there really is such a regional distribution. But with the most important impact, the most important impact on jobs and jobs, let's say that whether there is a rewarding job or a lack of a skilled job is number one reason why people leave rural areas, number one reason. And in the area of jobs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and precisely in this ministry, it is precisely in this ministry that there is no desire today to take measures that would have a regional level with this kind of calculation. Can I have three more minutes, please? (The President: Please, three minutes) And that's the problem. And then we hear that yes, there are again the guidelines given by the Ministry of Finance, and then we hope. And in six years' time, we must say here again that, oh, again, the distribution is wrong and again Estonia's rural areas, small towns have been hit. It shouldn't be, it shouldn't be. After all, we have actually proposed to the Riigikogu the principles of sharing these European Union funds. And two logics or three, means one is that differentiation, that own contribution rate, that rural areas and small towns are smaller and we are not talking about municipalities only, we are talking about businesses, jobs that affect people's lives the most. The second then, just as KredEx has done in the reconstruction of apartment buildings. Estonia is divided into five regions and it is not possible to take away South-Estonian money in Tallinn; it is simply not possible to take it. This is the second solution and the third, third, very important thing is to trust those who operate on the ground. We have regional strategies on the ground, development plans. But what good are they if you plan there to support entrepreneurship, support jobs if you do not have the resources on the ground? Tell me about the municipalities besides Tallinn and Tartu, who are able to share business grants that would affect exports or which would affect business so-called, I don't know, the acquisition of equipment to the extent that there is actually a significant change. Unfortunately, there are no local governments in Estonia; simply the local governments' tax base does not allow this. In essence, local governments, unfortunately most of them, unfortunately most of them, away from the golden circles, are redistributing poverty and you can make no matter how good plans on the ground, but if you don't have the money, it can't do that, so the third thing should be that we actually give the euro money the opportunity to use it in these regions according to the needs of the regions themselves. This is also one of the criticisms of the analysis that the measures that are being taken at national level are often not suitable for many Estonian regions, because they are universal and universal. I do not want to believe that these principles and logics cannot be incorporated into the law. That with these answers, which I heard from the Minister and the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Social Democrats cannot be satisfied in any way. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of will, it is a question of will, and then of decision-making, whenever there is will, it is possible to do all things. I hope that we have a second reading ahead of us, that we will actually find this will for a more uniform development of Estonia. Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U566	Andres Metsoja, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U567	Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear Minister, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I also think that this EUR 4.4 billion 2021/2027 is now the place that MEPs from different corners of Estonia should take the floor here. Because so far, this regional aspect has sounded to relatively deaf ears. Although these examples, the markant examples of tearing Estonia apart in the context of development are and will continue to grow. I will give you a small example in the context of the municipality of Viimsi and the city of Pärnu. It still makes you wonder if the Viimsi municipality has a budget of EUR 55.1 million with a population of 18600, but the city of Pärnu has a budget of EUR 88.5 million with a population of 51000. Thus, for one of the Viimsi, his home country has a budget of EUR 2962 and his home country has a budget of only EUR 1735. This is actually the base that can go on. This is the legal base with which we shape the local government's income base. In fact, this is a way of shaping a competitive advantage. And this measure, which we are talking about in this Chamber today, should level out these gaps. But he doesn't really do that. Has not done so far and will not do so in the future, according to the forecast and the draft. The question is, in fact, even wider. What really works here in the golden circle of Harjumaa may not work elsewhere in Estonia. When we talk about various measures in the context of energy efficiency, it has long been clear to all of us that the real estate market is often dictated by investments in this real estate. We know that the average salary of a person is what really dictates his ability to invest in the comfort of his place of residence, energy saving or something important. And these differences aren't even, they're just growing. They only grow. Let it be one big problem that people are concentrated in the centers. It's a completely separate subject. And obviously that's something we can't change with one particular plan either. But what we should give to people is faith and hope that the places where they now live, where they have built their homes, will be able to cope. Because, in fact, I have been forced to insist all the time that we have built an Estonian state as a state of people who can manage and want to cope with their lifespan. No one wants to go for support to cope, but they want to improve their own lives. But if we don't centrally create these assumptions... We are talking about equal treatment in this bill, but if we now go back to this same example of Viimsi and Pärnu, I will have a question, good parliamentarians, where this equal treatment is then. I understand that we are unable to make, like maybe this change in the population register, to take away from someone bigger with two residences or to redistribute tax revenue to where there is another place of residence. We have not been able to make this change because it requires a very clear replay of the whole system and taking money from someone and giving someone more. But with the additional funding we are building Estonia on, we can still balance it. Specialists in the regional field... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U568	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U569	... field specialists led us by Garri Raagmaa have emphasised this practically every step of the way. This is the number one problem in Estonia. And, well, it's even in the sense of political gloom that we often look at what's the problem in Estonia, why the popularity of EKRE is as great as it is or isn't. A part of Estonia feels that they have been deprived of the chance of success. And they make choices. They're protesting. And hence their democratic assessment of what we face every day in this Chamber. But we still don't want to realize that we have a problem here. When the house burns, it's too late to put a smoke detector on the ceiling. So, good ambassadors and government, I really call for serious thought. We are indeed receiving answers from the ministry officials and, during the various coalitions of the ages, we have received answers that it is now too late, that this train has already left, that it should have been negotiated with the European Commission at all before planning this measure, that we want to do so in Estonia or whatever reasons still sound to us, but this responsibility is primarily in this Chamber. Us. Estonia is one whole country and nation. Estonia must not and must never become such a country that the official tells you where you can live or cannot live. Let us create these opportunities and examine this document calmly. It is a big decision, it shapes Estonia, it has shaped Estonia, and I think it can be shaped better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U570	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 487 SE. That concludes our first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U571	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the first reading of draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, 495 SE. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, is welcome to the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U572	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Act implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union. One of the main objectives of the draft is, on the one hand, to prevent excise fraud. To this end, the purchase process of specially labelled diesel for agricultural and fisheries use is planned to be changed from 1 January onwards. A reduced rate of excise duty applies to specially labelled diesel, which means that the price of fuel is more favourable than that of conventional diesel for the buyer. According to the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act, specially labelled fuel may be used in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. In reality, the fuel used for farmers is also used elsewhere: private individuals in passenger cars and businesses in non-agricultural activities. According to the Tax and Customs Board, depending on the year, 13000 to 21000 people who do not actually have such a right buy fuel for farmers and fishermen. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the amount of excise benefit for persons at risk of misuse is estimated at 1 to 3.4 million per year. We have developed amendments together with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Agricultural Registers and Information Office. In order to prevent fraud, the draft provides for the following: From 1 January 2023, special purpose diesel can only be purchased by persons entitled to purchase. Secondly, this purchase right is granted by the PRIA. The fuel seller must verify from the PRIA register whether the buyer has a purchase right before the sale. How, though, can we ensure that farmers receive the fuel that is specially labelled for food production? The right to purchase shall be granted by the PRIA and shall be exercised on the basis laid down by law. We actually want the system to be as simple as possible for farmers and professional fishermen. As a result, most of them receive purchase rights automatically, which is close to 98%. The PRIA can use different national registers and their data for this purpose. However, if farmers who do not have the right to buy automatically, they too will not lose their fuel with preferential excise duty and will be able to apply for the right to buy from the PRIA. Agricultural service providers can also apply for the right to purchase. How, though, does this verification of the purchase right work? The dealer of the fuel must check that the person has a right to purchase before sale from the PRIA registry. Fuel sellers can choose between different technical solutions. One of these options is the use of a web solution where e-PRIA can control the right to purchase, the other is the X-Road solution with the PRIA registry. In conclusion, changing the purchasing process will prevent irregularities, increase the rate of excise duty receipts into the budget, while ensuring that farmers and professional fishermen continue to have access to specially labelled fuel. And there is also a need to assess the bureaucratic process that will become easier with this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U573	Aivar Chef would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U574	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You mentioned that 98% of the PRIA automatically receives an answer as to whether or not it is justified to purchase specially labelled fuel. At the same time, you mentioned in the Commission that a computer program would have to be carried out, which would cost EUR 800000. Is it really necessary for 2% of businesses to have a programme of EUR 800000 in the PRIA? And the other thing is that the fuel dealers who are going to sell from gas stations have to run a program. If this 800000 is paid for by the state, I understand that it will cost 100,000 to redefine the programme at filling stations, in the Commission you said so, but it will have to be paid either by the owners of the filling stations, or ultimately by consumers, or by farmers. What we're about to do now, a million or so people think the IRS has calculated that there might be the damage that's being stolen, $200,000 we're giving to the PRIA...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U575	Mr. Chef, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U576	... for the procedure, does this thing really make sense, where does the money end up going?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U577	Thank you. Honourable good questioner! There were a lot of questions in your long line of questions, so I would like to try to sum them up and answer them. In my opinion, this draft law is one good example where good ideas are being thought over and implemented by governments, because this idea has started with previous governments and I think it is positive. Positive means that in 2020, it was agreed that the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance and the PRIA and the Ministry of Rural Affairs would cooperate, to develop this draft. But what you're referring to isn't exactly one-to-one comparison. Indeed, when this bill was developed, these estimates, which were called misuse, were about four million, just under four million. This estimation of misuse, this methodology, I cannot describe, because I cannot describe it because it is not public because, when you describe this methodology, you probably know how to circumvent it, but this principle was linked to the fact that this misuse, and the estimates of it, fluctuated from one year to the next. And that means that the range that I called could be fluctuating. There really is a little over a million this last year. And now, if you come to what you yourself said nicely, that the investment for 2% of those who do not automatically get it does not have a direct link, but the link is that, through this investment, we will cut red tape for these applicants, they will automatically get a right of pre-emption, which is positive. However, another important part of this relates to the fact that the investment is indeed one-off and consists of two parts in terms of investment: half or more of the European Union's money and half of that money is then really included in the budget. And its current maintenance in such a bureaucratic key is somewhere a little over 100,000, which, actually, purely mathematically speaking, we can say that every year the state is clearly in the current profit in this sense, but I think it is important that we should not tolerate the possibility of tax fraud from a purely taxpayer's point of view, including the view of Parliament and the government. And that actually means that, when we discussed national defence here today and talked about nearly 400 million, I dare say in this context that every million or every euro we keep as misuse is a conditioner for competitiveness and taxpayers' wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U578	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U579	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In this respect, you are really right that taxpayers' money must be read and certainly not misused. However, it must also be borne in mind, of course, that these efforts to avoid misuses are not more expensive than the benefits. Otherwise, we will spend two euros and get one euro. That's not entirely appropriate either. However, it is my question that comes from the Chamber of Commerce of Agriculture, which actually expressed concern that the implementation of this system will not, however, reduce the availability of fuel and the situation of farmers will not deteriorate, precisely because of these investments and the reduced interest of fuel sellers. How do you answer that, or how would you reassure the Chamber of Commerce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U580	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I understand the question. This one point of discussion and discussion has been whether the development of a company, in order to sell that fuel in the future, may be too expensive and unreasonable for him in such a business key. Here, it is also interesting to know that if we look at the information system currently being used by fuel sellers, it will be carried out largely on the surface of the Finestmedia register. This actually means that those partners who use it are, to a large extent, also the fuel sellers affected by this change. But some of these fuel sellers through interviews that were actually conducted with the PRIA, because there are different engagement events, including interviews, said that they were actually expecting this legislative amendment and for a very clear reason: on the one hand, for the sake of clarity, that exactly what could be done. And it also concerns the so-called automatic filling stations. They said that they would rather join it when this law was passed. They haven't done that today. And, for example, in these gas stations today, this specialty diesel is not sold by itself. The point was that if its development cost is x and it is estimated to be between 50000 and 100000, it will be distributed between these points of sale and companies and this cost will not be EUR 50000 or EUR 100000 for each undertaking. That's the estimated answer to that. Actually, we hope that this is an opportunity. Indeed, if we are just talking about a technical solution, then the automatic filling station must use the X-road. And the X-Road means that I.D.'s going through the ID card and through the ID passwords to identify themselves. And indeed, if you have a manned gas station, you will also be able to use a simpler solution to a web solution through the e-PRIA register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U581	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U582	Yeah, thanks! My question concerns the period of validity of the right of pre-emption, that this draft states that the right of pre-emption will take effect from the entry in the register and will be valid for one year. Does it have to be extended after one year or how it will be extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U583	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Indeed, this bill also states that this automatic purchase right will arrive very quickly, for example, where animal keepers will be able to apply for the next day after they have put the animals in the register. And this is a very important process, the main part of this automaticity is that we should not have to deal with the determination of the double purchase right, and that actually means that if we referred earlier to the fact that 98% will receive the automatic purchase right, that is, they will be in one way or another with the PRIA registry, relations with the PRIA and through it will receive the automatic pre-emption right. Now this prerogative, every time you and the PRIA are in the field of view of your applicants and are in the eyes of the PRIA, you will automatically receive it, and if it should happen now that you fall out of this field of view of the PRIA for one reason or another, I do not know, stop this type of agricultural activity, you will only start providing the service, then in that case you will have to submit this application differently and additionally because you do not have it in a respectful manner and because someone who is not automatically included in the applications, in general, according to current estimates, there are about 120 applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U584	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U585	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, monitoring options, control opportunities are evolving, digital solutions are coming. That makes perfect sense. I'm gonna ask the other side of this coin about availability. If there are now 131 filling stations and 25 wholesalers who trade this specially labelled diesel, do I not know the Ministry knows that a gas station or gas station is planning to give up the sale of specially labelled diesel after these changes? Has such a risk been highlighted? And how can we ensure that in some areas smaller farmers do not lose access? Yeah, those who are big and order this fuel truck in the yard are clear, but just those who are dating, I don't know, bringing the canister or driving the machine to the gas station on the spot, how do they take the fear of loss of availability down?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U586	Yeah, I get the question. Indeed, we have 138 outlets, 100 of which are manned and 38 are automatic filling stations. Indeed, in the first phase of the procedure for the draft, this issue was bigger and it was before new engagement events were carried out, including interviews, and this technical process was also negotiated. But according to my information, if I'm not mistaken, there will be an additional meeting at the end of January. And because some of these fuel sellers have said that if this legislative party and the register are organized and a new system is created, they are ready to come, which may mean that if someone leaves for some reason, and this may also be due to his other reasons, not only that this cost could be high, which, according to current knowledge, cannot be so much assessed, it could also be his particular business risk, because he could also lose a competitive advantage or whatever, so I rather think that this number of outlets might remain the same or be balanced and that it should not have a significant impact. As you said yourself, 90% of this amount is sold through wholesale consumption. Those filling stations that sell actually sell the retail part literally, 10%, not to say that it is not important, it is certainly important, and, as you said, small manufacturers too, but if some filling stations could disappear, then suddenly from a large town where the refueling of this special-purpose diesel today may have been reduced through the fact that perhaps this misuse in these places, when we are talking about Tallinn or Tartu, for example, may have been a lot, but that does not mean that there should be no such opportunity in the metropolitan area at all. Definitely should. Because the system and the regional space are integrated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U587	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U588	Yes, thank you! Minister, thank you very much. I, too, have a little bit of confusion about the control of this purchasing right that I do not quite understand how it can be, whether it causes excessive bureaucracy for producers afterwards or not. But I'm trying to understand. But basically, I believe that this law is necessary, that it is useful. And I ask you this: I know that you also had negotiations with the Farmers' Association and with the Agriculture Chamber, how they basically, whether they were supportive or rather taking it with a long tooth or accepting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U589	Thank you. If I recall the whole discussion and these various debates, for example, in the Committee on Rural Affairs or outside the Commission, I would say that the view of farmers was such that it was very important for them that this right of purchase and the receipt of this advantage take place at this point of purchase. And it was also at the beginning of the discussion that it really means. We in Europe actually have a variety of examples where there is such a two-faced example or another where you are looking for a follow-up. And one of the reasons why we took this into account was, in fact, that since this concession rate gives about 22 to 23 million benefits to an entrepreneur this year, in order not to impose a cash flow burden on them and to compensate them afterwards, they were very positive in this respect. Once there was also the fact that there were so many points left, but it wasn't like in this discussion with such a sharp accent. And the second part of this discussion also reflected the basis on which we also give this right of pre-emption. We also have many of these options in Europe. This actually means that certain hectares are taken into account, some limits are taken into account, and here the Institute for Plant Production and the Agricultural Sector and the Ministry of Rural Affairs cooperated and showed that, since the cultivation methods and species are different anyway, this uniform average coefficient is very unrealistic, including the fact that in some years the soil needs to be cultivated more and so on. That is why we thought that this would be the best way for them and, in some years, this benefit has been transferred to nearly 30 million. This also depends on the levels of fuel prices and the quantities of fuels. But in general, the amount of fuels has grown, as has been the case over time. Indeed, in 2019 and 2020, I think one spike was too high, but in general this increase has been quite even.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U590	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U591	Good manager! Dear Minister, The draft provides for a reduction in the misuse of specially labelled diesel fuel used in the agricultural and fisheries sectors and an increase in excise duties. Everything's great, through PRIA gets fuel. But as we know, 90% of specially labelled fuel is purchased by wholesale distribution, which means that the company will let that fuel into its own company's tanks at home, after which there will be no control. How does this control work anyway? The fact that I can buy is set, but there's really no control at 90 percent. If I go to the gas station, that makes sense, I'm gonna get into that agricultural machine, and everybody sees, the tractor or, you know, it's fueled. But what's going on out there in the corporate yard? And now we're saying that there's gonna be a really good check-up, is there really gonna be a check-up? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U592	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I understand the background and the content of your question very well, to which you refer, although the gas station can also be refueled with a canister and a small container, and do not always have to drive an agricultural machine. But you know very well that the Tax and Customs Board has its own matrices and risk assessment systems. You are aware, an honourable long-term member and chairman of the Monetary Commission, that letters of notice are sometimes sent to entrepreneurs across Estonia, they are in a positive key, but in order to raise and improve the payment advert, and this has actually helped to improve our tax receipts, and we have to admit that Estonia has been one of the most effective tax experiences here. The same will actually happen with the same thing, but the most important aspect of it in this respect will not be lost by random checks either, but the most important point is that, given the level of the benefit in this light, entrepreneurs are very concerned about whether they are reasonable to risk losing this right to purchase. If you noticed that we spoke at the beginning of this draft procedure or of the draft procedure about 22000 customers, already the number and use of certain purchases during this procedure has fallen. And there is certainly a certain connection, because this topic became more open to the public and there were signals that it would be dealt with. But it is also true that controlling it in a certain technical way, in a bureaucratic sense, how I say then, by simply stopping cars on the road, will certainly be more complicated and purely technical in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U593	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U594	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, If you touch this picture of the future in the context of the Fit for 55, this bill is probably such a bill for the ice age. At least in the Committee on the Environment, we were introduced that 2030 should already have the majority of large-scale agricultural techniques on biogas, that we have such ambitious targets. But my question certainly points out that this is necessary, and especially in this situation, where we are about to enter the apparently major economic crisis, there is also a need to keep the agricultural sector and the fisheries sector above water, and this is one of the few aids. But my reference to my question then goes to fishermen and professional fisheries. It also points out that, if there is a right to fish, it is also possible for fishermen to apply for and use this specially labelled fuel. But if he has a fishing right, but he doesn't try, does he have that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U595	Legally, it also means that it must be entered in the register of professional fishermen, and that actually means that, how do I say, if a fisherman does not catch or does not use it, then it will also be monitored. But suddenly, it turns out to be a service for other fishermen. This also means that agriculture... This agriculture, as I said before, may not itself have any land in relation to the PRIA, but actually provides the service to the agricultural sector, it will have the same right of purchase because it uses fuel to provide the service to the farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U596	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U597	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Actually, there's a very good bill. Thank you! I simply have one point to make clear that the PRIA may withdraw the purchase authorisation if, in the following period, the person making the purchase permit does not apply for the agricultural area payment. Maybe he's got three or four hectares, and he doesn't even want to apply for aid, he just grows land. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U598	Then he has to actually prove and make a statement that he is a farmer and uses this fuel to cultivate his field, because if you noticed our discussion too, certain thresholds have actually been set for the right to buy: 1 livestock unit, 1 hectare and 0.3 hectares in gardening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U599	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U600	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! To my previous question, you said that the software development of the gas station system would cost EUR 100000 here. By reading the explanatory notes attached here, it is 50000-100000 for a specific gas station, so at least it is written here, and then it is also a concern that the smaller can be due to the fact that their share per unit price is going to be higher. What is it, then, about a gas station chain, or is it $50,000 for the whole country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U601	Thank you. I actually answered that question, but I'm trying to clarify to create this knowledge. As the investment may amount to up to EUR 100000, this is the first. But secondly, it is known that the software service and software service are centrally used by a large number of operators and that the cost is shared across the customer base. This calculation is actually what this idea is, and it has come out in these interviews, and that is why we have gained more knowledge about it. They didn't reveal exactly how many customers on this base literally, but they said that this cost is divided into a customer base, which means that it is not taken from the centre of the company, but distributed to everyone's customer base. And it actually lets us know that it's not about the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U602	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U603	Thank you. I'd go on with this fishing industry from here. We have amplified and amplified to have a fishing quota on top of the fishing gear and to ensure that everyone has access to the fish. But we know that it has also created a market and that fishing rights will be rented out. My question comes from your answer. If there is a professional fisherman who has a fishing right and he provides a service, rents his fishing right to another professional fisherman, does he still have the right to use the same opportunities in the fuel sector when providing this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U604	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I'd ask you the other way around, if he has that right and he doesn't make that cost himself, he'll definitely have problems with the IRS and the PRIA.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U605	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask the Vice-President of the Finance Committee, Aivar Kokk, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U606	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 11 January. The draft was presented by Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs, representative of the initiator. The draft provides for a reduction in the misuse of specially labelled diesel used in the agricultural and fisheries sectors and an increase in excise duty receipts. The draft provides that the purchase right of special-purpose diesel fuel is required for the purchase and use of special-purpose diesel fuel, which is decided upon by the Agricultural Registers and Information Agency PRIA. Thus, everyone who wishes to buy excise fuel will no longer be sold with the benefit of excise duty. The right to purchase shall be granted only to legal persons or to self-employed persons operating in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. The seller of special purpose diesel must check whether the person has the right to purchase before the sale. And then I will present the questions and answers asked by the Commission. I asked the Minister about the level of excise duty on specially labelled diesel fuel in Latvia and Lithuania and the number of filling stations in Estonia where farmers will be able to refuel properly in the future. I also asked why the purchase right is granted to the PRIA and how much it will cost the State. The minister replied: in Lithuania, the excise duty rate on diesel fuel was EUR 56 and in Latvia, EUR 55,8 per 1000 litres. Almost 90 percent of the fuel is sold through wholesale distribution, which means that fuel is delivered as close as possible to the farmer or home, depending on whether he has proper storage facilities. Rather, it may happen that in the centre of Tallinn, for example, a filling point may close. The reduction in bureaucracy is due to the fact that the PRIA passes the right to purchase a register under the law. Ninety-eight percent of the decisions will be automatic. Based on the fact that persons in the register are entitled to an advantage because they are engaged in either agriculture or fisheries. In order to adapt the register, the investment is about EUR 700 to 800000, of which EUR 500000 is the European Union's resources. The administrative cost is less than EUR 2000 per year. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has noted in its assessment that there is over EUR 1 million in the misuse money for the fuel that has been labelled. Based on the company's competition and fairness, it is important that misuse does not occur and control is effective. According to Commissioner Eenmaa, different systems have been developed to support the country's agriculture and he asked why, 30 years later, the use of specially labelled diesel fuel is still being discussed. The minister replied: there are three countries in the European country which do not have any such benefits at all. The rest of the countries are divided into two groups, which colour and do not colour, and there is a difference in parts. What will be implemented in Estonia is an advantage that will be granted immediately at the moment of purchase. There are countries that make payments once a month, a quarter, or actually a year. As a result of the negotiations, it was concluded that it would be reasonable for Estonia to apply the advantage immediately at the moment of purchase. According to Commission Member Jürgen Ligi, agriculture must not be supported on the basis of fossil burning. In the wording of "Objective 55" it is as if fossils are being excluded and, on the other hand, all kinds of practices are subsidising their consumption. Why are direct payments not separated from fossil combustion? Such an emergency solution is not long-term and, moreover, it is not in line with climate policy. The Minister replied that there were three countries in the European Union, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Austria, which do not support preferential excise duties. This is a competition issue. When comparing Estonia with other countries of the European Union and based on what is Estonia's average rate of support compared to the European average, we would be even more out of competition in terms of entrepreneurs. The CAP strategy plan does not address the need to discuss whether or not to grant a preferential rate for diesel fuel. This is left to the discretion of the Member States. Modern and greener cultivation and agrotechnic techniques require more mechanics to be moved, and there are currently no short-term alternatives in agriculture that could be a source of power. Right now it's a tractor. It is known that Lithuania is testing a new type of tractor that supports a system that works on biomethane, but it is all at a very early stage. Rene Kokk, Member of the Commission, stated that if, following the changes, the number of beneficiaries is reduced three times, who are the persons or undertakings at whose expense? Has there been analysis of the operators who have the right to purchase heating and the cases handled when the heating has been re-sold? Is it known what costs are added to the filling stations due to the restructuring work that continues with the sale of specially labelled diesel fuel? The Minister replied that the number of misuses would be reduced and only the legal person could be purchased. Misuse is based on data from the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and based on the matrices of their risk assessment. Their competence and knowledge are greater in this regard. How they do it hasn't been published. For those companies using X-Roads, the IT development cost group may have a total value of around EUR 50 to 100000, not more, due to the restructuring. This means that software developers with a group of many fuel vendors will be allocated the cost of their development to the group. Another solution would be that the fuel seller owns a computer through which the right of beneficiaries can be checked manually or by telephone apps. Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Commission, pointed out that the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was to issue an opinion on the draft Council Directive restructuring the Union framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity. In this respect, Estonia requests a transitional period of ten years for marine fuel and fuel used in fisheries. Does this taxation framework also affect the area of agriculture's special fuel? The Minister replied that the directive included agriculture in the context of being able to continue with the same principle and principles. As regards the special incentive for agricultural fuel, the agri-strategic plan has increased the environmental requirements by more than 30 per cent for this period. There are currently no solutions for small-scale equipment that can already be used on ships. The government office has discussed that for biomethane, the tax rate could be 0.5, which is the minimum for businesses to be ready to invest in the agricultural sector as well. An additional financial contribution of around EUR 23,9 million is also foreseen for investments. I pointed out that gas stations where there are no people physically present could not start selling specially labelled fuel, because it is not possible to control it. The minister replied that the ID-card, i.e. through the X-Road, could identify itself and prove the right to buy in unattended filling stations. I said that if the gas station chains calculate and it turns out that no investment is worthwhile in IT development of restructuring, they could give up the sale of diesel fuel with special markings at their gas station, because one or two farmers would not make a profit. Has it been analyzed? The Minister replied that mass abandonment did not sound as a message in negotiations and meetings. Most of the delivery takes place in bulk. As far as manned filling stations are concerned, a simple IT solution can be used, which means that the existence of the Internet is important. I asked the Commission if it would be possible to look at the table on how specially labelled diesel fuel promotion is being distributed in other European countries. According to the Minister, the table will also be sent to the Commission for presentation. I was wondering if it had been discussed that in apartment buildings and homes where it was ever possible to heat with specially labelled fuel, it would be possible to allow this special discount to be allowed again at a price, now that energy and gas prices are so high? The minister replied that this had not been discussed. Fuel oil is by its very nature a relatively expensive form of heating for apartment buildings and those who replaced fuel oil with wood chips have certainly been a victory and will continue to be so in the future. However, legal changes have increased the possibility of using certain special diesel in dryers. The Commission also made consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, i.e. today, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 2 February at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also asks the Committee on Rural Affairs for an opinion on the draft and for the Commission to appoint a previous speaker as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U607	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U608	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U609	Uh-huh. The way we're negotiating is to press that button, and that's the way it's gonna be. Well, we've got a request. I'm opening negotiations. Please welcome the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U610	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Committee on Rural Affairs will discuss this draft in depth and also give its opinion to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But the Fatherland Party itself has had a number of questions about this bill. If you unravel this bill and look at the explanatory statement, when you look at 2018 the Tax and Customs Board has thought that specially labelled diesel fuel will go aside for 3.4 million. 2019 was 1.18 and in 2020 it has been 1.63. Last year, this forecast has been about a million. Perhaps without any investments or legislative changes, every year, the tax and customs authorities' opinion has also reduced the misuse of special-marked diesel. Now we're saying that this magnitude was a million last year. If we look at this reduction in proportion, this year it could be somewhere around 700000, the year after that, 500000 and so on. One misuse must have disappeared by heating up most of the houses before they were specially labelled. The time that someone puts it in their own car is long gone, even though today there are cars like this, that when they're stopped on the road, it's very hopeless to put some hose in the tank and check if there's a marked, painted fuel or not. Then we think that making a program on PRIA, a computer program costs 800000 in size. And then we'll give some authority a decision as to whether or not a farmer deserves specially marked fuel. It is not the Riigikogu, it is not the law that regulates it, it is not the minister's regulation, but, once again, as a rubber stamp, we give rights to some third, fourth or fifth place. In my opinion, the law should be very clearly regulated on the basis of which it is entitled to receive this specially labelled fuel. It's in this law too. Why, then, in the meantime, do we need to give up EUR 200000 each year? If we do now a program that costs 800000. And basically, I understand two percent, because 98% is clear without any calculation of who could get this specially labelled fuel, and then we know that 90% of the consumers of specially labelled fuel buy it in bulk and they have a chance in their own businesses to keep that fuel. And then, if you think that the IRS is going to go there to check how or what it's used, well, there's definitely a chance, but there's a much smaller chance of getting caught. And that is why we are making a major bill, creating bureaucracy, giving the authorities jobs and paying for it from the state budget, rather than actually allocating this money to support agriculture or to support rural areas, which raises serious questions. I agree with a hundred percent that any misuse of specially labelled fuel must be prevented... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U611	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U612	But does it make sense to do so with the aim that the money is about as much on this control as we are spending on controlling it? And when we read a bill that says that cutting red tape, I think it is the opposite of increasing bureaucracy, because we are giving another agency more rights. And when I asked whether, in the current state of the energy crisis, it could not be said that special-labelled fuel could be used by those dwellings and apartment buildings that have not thrown out these boilers here a few years ago, just because the price of the special-marked fuel is so favourable that, for example, gas heating is half as expensive, it turned out that this has not been discussed by the government. A few days ago, the oil union actually made such an appeal, an offer to both the government and the Riigikogu to discuss it. I, too, made a similar proposal here a few weeks ago when this bill had reached the Riigikogu to discuss it. At this moment, it is certainly important to save money. It is certainly important to reduce misuse. I can't argue with the Minister about that. But you always have to see if it makes any economic sense. I remember there was an e-cigarette thing here a while ago. Finally, it became apparent that this control would have been more expensive if it had received this excise money. Exactly the same thing we have right now in the case of this special-marked fuel, that in fact this control is ultimately more expensive. And my biggest fear is that the ten percent, the farmers who today at the gas stations, will take the fuel if it costs the gas station chains for 10,000 or 5,000 gangs, or for everyone, if the gang is 100,000. Well, I don't know why the IT application for gas stations, the X-Road app is cheaper than the PRIA, I don't understand that, eight times the difference. It should be the same cost-based. And the PRIA should have all farms in the programme and system long ago, because farmers are asking for payments either way or through the PRIA. So this side should be. It makes us think and doubt that we are actually creating a much more complicated situation. Here before, the Minister was asked whether the Chamber of Agriculture and everyone was very pleased. In fact, they say that they are a little quieter for one reason only: at the beginning of this draft, there was that fuel would be delivered on hectares, and on everything else, when the draft had been put up during the previous minister's time. Now this side has been taken away and, as a compromise, they are not going to make a louder voice, but they have today's fear that availability will deteriorate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In this context, the Isamaa Group proposes to reject at first reading the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, 495.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U613	I now ask Riina Sikut, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U614	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, however, a surprisingly long debate on the special labelling of liquid fuel. But what are we talking about today? I don't think we've reached the core here. In fact, we are talking about the most stable support measure that has served Estonian agriculture for a long time. Indeed, the development started already in 1996 and I think we need to know our colleagues and since 1996 the special labelling of liquid fuel has been linked to the name Ivari Padari. In 1996, the Minister of Finance Mart Opmann, who adopted the Act which came into force in 1997. But who was an official at the Ministry of Finance who was legitimizing that red-painted fuel back then? Now, that was Ivar Padar. But a few years later already in Laari's second government, where special-marked fuel was already painted blue, but continued to support agriculture in this way, then the Minister of Agriculture was Ivari Padar and the Minister of Finance, who was Siim Kallas. So, in fact, for a quarter of a century, there is already hundreds of millions of subsidised agriculture in this way. Now we are talking about such nuances and details, but all this past and the support that has been offered to agriculture have not been mentioned. So this is a necessary and sensible measure. But as with everything, times change, technological opportunities improve and supervision, as we can see, tax authorities use new measures in the case of tax fraud, so use the help of behavioural scientists, use algorithms and work with databases. It's the same now. Indeed, perhaps the control of this purchase right I do not know, it is possible to make it online, automatic even at automatic filling stations, it is reasonable and undoubtedly supervision needs to be improved in order to reduce the risk of misuse. However, as the previous speaker mentioned, it really does not matter how costly it is to monitor the benefits of supervision. But what really matters is the question of availability in this Chamber. It is very good that the Minister confirmed that, at present, neither filling stations nor chains nor wholesalers have indicated that there should be a significant reduction in the number of filling stations from which specially labelled diesel can be purchased. But I would stress separately that it should actually be monitored, that it should be monitored. In this Chamber, too, we make very many decisions of goodwill in the hope that there will be no negative impact, that no one will lose the service, or that regional imbalances will not increase. Before, we discussed the euro, which we are also applying all the time in the hope that they might still improve our regional balance. After the analyses show that this did not happen, but now, in the same way, that now we will not find that availability is still decreasing. It must be kept under observation and, where possible, measures must be taken to ensure that a specially labelled fuel can be made available to smaller farmers. In conclusion, the Social Democrats, however, support the completion of the first reading, but put the Minister's heart to the point that if it is possible to correct the draft before the second reading, in order to ensure that the supervisory costs are proportionate to the benefits to be obtained, the amount of misuse is avoided. Secondly, to ensure, if possible, that availability is maintained or at least agreed on how access will be monitored to maintain it at the current level. This should be done before the second reading and the Social Democrats are ready to support the corresponding amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U615	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Merry Aart. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U616	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a speech, but there are a few things I'd like to say in line. When Aivar Chef said we were thinking, I think we are. Thinking decorates a person, and we all have to think. I would point out that these are enterprises, whether self-employed or legal persons. I do not know very much those entrepreneurs who drive their tractors, whether they are very small Russian tractors or very modern tractors, which are very expensive, so that someone drives very terribly to fill up their tanks. In most cases, be it one ton or two tons, it is allowed to be brought home, ordered home, and can be used for longer periods. But every once in a while, no reasonable entrepreneur will be refueling fuel into the fuel tank. It's in vain, I think. We were talking about MTA checks. If there are proper programs.. programs pay out most of the time, then there will be maintenance costs, which will certainly no longer be so expensive. When it comes to the need for control, checks on the basis of programmes show how much any legitimate buyer consumes this fuel. It is possible to make adjustments to the number of hectares, the number of animals. These standards are all there, and it can be verified, already on the basis of registers, whether or not someone is using fuel over their head. It also calls to order producers. Producers aren't so stupid that they don't know where to control them. I would say that our producers are generally highly innovative and quite smart. What else? Our farmers' subsidies are, if not the lowest in Europe, certainly the latter. And if there is a little more money left for food producers, then this measure is justified. What happens in ten years, we don't know right now. However, in order to ensure that in ten years' time we may not use this fuel again, we must not leave our producers in a worse position at the moment. So there is no point in talking about whether we really need this fuel or whether we do or do not. One thing I remembered: Misuse has decreased. But we don't know why it's been reduced. We need to look into this a little bit. Perhaps misuse has decreased because large trucks near Tallinn cannot take specially marked diesel and quickly board the ship because they are prevented from driving. Their cargo is blocked. Maybe there's a reason. This would require a study of why this is the case. Finally, I would say that we support this bill. It is very easy to interrupt or reject the bill, but my suggestion is that we improve this bill, analyse it, think again, as Aivar Kokk said. Let us think about it and go on with it; it is always possible to propose amendments. Interruption proposals can also be made at second reading, nothing happens. So I'm calling on this bill to go ahead and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U617	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 495 be completed. The President has received a letter and the contents of the letter are as follows: a proposal to reject draft 495. In particular, the Fatherland Group proposes to reject at first reading the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union (495 SE). I understand, Minister, what you are asking, but the negotiations are closed. I can't open them anymore. This must be communicated in advance to the Director. Previously, we need to let the manager know. I didn't have that information that you wanted to take the floor on the negotiations. There's no way I can go back with this procedure. Negotiations are closed and we will start preparing the vote on this rejection. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Isamaa Group, which is as follows: to reject draft 495 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U618	The proposal was not supported with the result of 7, 38 votes against, no abstentions. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading be closed. Instead, I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 February. That concludes the first reading and concludes the eighth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U619	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (491 SE). I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U620	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws. There are quite a few changes to the bill. These are 261 amendments to the Public Procurement Act, two amendments to the Code of Administrative Court Procedure and one amendment to the Penal Register Act. That is why I will certainly not be able to open all of them in detail during my report. Here I bring out the most important changes, starting with the objectives of the draft. The amendment of the Public Procurement Act has two aims: firstly, to improve practical problems encountered in the implementation of the Act, which can be resolved at the level of legislation, and secondly, to bring the law fully into line with the Public Procurement Directives. In order to identify the need for changes, meetings with stakeholders first took place and this preparatory work was quite thorough. The meeting was followed by the preparation of an intention to develop, which opened up various options for solving the problems encountered. This draft was then drawn up on the basis of the feedback received on the intention to develop. In addition, the Ministry of Finance constantly advises contracting authorities and economic operators on the implementation of the Act. During this consultation process, questions have been raised about the interpretation of the law as well as the possible solution to practical problems. Since some issues have been repeatedly or have been systematic, the draft has also sought to overcome these shortcomings. Much of the changes are aimed at improving legal clarity, increasing flexibility and reducing the working and administrative burden on contracting authorities and economic operators. In order to ensure that the above is not merely generic, I will also give some more concrete examples. For example, the regulation on framework contracts specifies the setting of selection criteria and award criteria in a mini-competition, which means that in the future the contracting authority will no longer be able to lay down the selection criteria or award criteria incorrectly or with insufficient precision. The amendment explicitly states that the additional selection criteria to be used in the mini-competition and the award criteria must be laid down in the underlying documents already drawn up for the award of the framework contract, that is to say, framework procurement. Changes in the handling of abnormally low tenders and in the infringement of contracts make the procurement procedure more flexible and allow the contracting authority to take better account of the specific characteristics of the procurement and the market situation in question when setting the conditions for the award of the contract. The current law requires the tenderer to provide an explanation of the value of the tender if that value is at least 10% lower than the value of the next tender and 20% below the average value of the tenders. However, according to the amendment, the contracting authority may provide for a different percentage of the margin of tolerance within a range of 5 to 15% or 10 to 30% respectively. This change was welcomed by both contracting authorities and economic operators. The provision of a certain mandatory percentage in law does not preclude the risk of proper performance of the contract and the contracting authority should be able to provide otherwise in the light of its experience. There are situations in which tenders submitted with the distinction provided for in the current law are normal and do not automatically give rise to doubt that they would be abnormally low or vice versa. The range laid down by law is too large. As regards the purpose of the draft, which is to bring the law into line with the public procurement directives, it should be noted that in October 2019 the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Estonia on incorrect transposition of public procurement directives. Estonia has responded to the European Commission, as well as explained the logic of our law and certain nuances, and has accepted certain reproaches, which have then become apparent in the course of this communication, which must then be corrected by the draft. Two of them are technical in nature. However, in the event of a competitive dialogue with the successful tenderer, the two amendments concern the authorisation of negotiations which, given the nature of this procedure, may be essential for the final specification of the terms of the contract. The negotiations and the specification of the tender shall not alter the tender or the underlying documents of the procurement and it shall nevertheless be ensured that the tenderer is not placed in a more favourable position than the other tenderers. The other two amendments concern the determination of their weighting, either as an appropriate range or, where this is not possible for objective reasons, in order of priority, when setting award criteria. Although contracting authorities are accustomed to assigning a certain proportion to the award criteria, which is, of course, the most transparent and verifiable way and certainly the best way to ensure equal treatment for economic operators when assessing tenders, the flexibility to be added may, in certain cases, contribute to finding the most economically advantageous and better offer. In addition, the Ministry of Finance itself has discovered some shortcomings in the transposition of directives in the course of its advisory work and some of these errors have also been referred to in the legal literature. We have proposed changes that will remedy these shortcomings. That's all I'm doing right now. As I mentioned at the outset, this is a major draft. This has been preceded by thorough preparation and involvement of interested parties. I therefore ask for this draft to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U621	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu want to ask. Aivar Chef begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U622	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, I ask that this material is so voluminous that it is incomprehensible why the public procurement law should change as much as it is written here. There are no doubts, there are doubts that simply a member of the Riigikogu will no longer be able to eat it through. But I have a question. The first question is that in the current Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority is obliged to solve the problem by the subcontractor and the main contractor. If the subcontractor has done his job and the main contractor does not want to pay him, the contracting authority must pay that no attempt has been made to liquidate this change, because I know that the real estate companies of the State have this problem all the time. We know that the main contractors will win, so the contractor will normally be denied the last bill, the last three or four years of this opportunity no longer exist. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That this bill doesn't try to reverse it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U623	Thank you for your question. The brief answer is that no, this issue was not addressed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U624	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U625	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! A few drafts ago we looked at the draft law on subsidies for the next period in this Chamber and there the Council of Rectors was very concerned that, in the case of public procurement, if an ex ante evaluation of the procurement has been requested and it has also received a positive response, it will be checked and quite often found that something is still wrong and, if there is another support measure, the money will be recovered. Scientists have also spoken openly against it quite sharply and said that, in fact, when the state gives this ex-ante assessment, the state should, in principle, also take on this responsibility when something is finally found. In this case, has it somehow found a solution here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U626	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, this is not specifically regulated here. However, it is possible for the contracting authority itself to assess them more flexibly, as I said, and to set the conditions, to determine the ranges in which these conditions are to be taken into account, which weight is to be taken into account. And that, if there are any problems, I know that universities have had their turnarounds before, then I'm willing to make it clear again that what's still squeezing there. In fact, if it is objective, these matters may be reviewed during the proceedings of this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U627	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U628	Thank you. There are some sub-contractors' concerns here in paragraphs 143 to 146, but I'll read them in more detail. However, points 147 to 152 are page 35, thirdly, are amended in those provisions on the amendment of the contract, which limit the possibility of an amendment to 50 per cent of the initial value of the contract. 50%, a maximum of 15% of the law still in force can be amended. If it's bigger, you're gonna have to announce a new purchase. That maybe you're looking, page 35, the last paragraph begins, "to be turned three."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U629	Thank you for your question. That it is possible to change the contract due to unforeseen circumstances up to 50 per cent of the initial value. And the Public Procurement Directive states that the 50% limit applies only to increases in the value of a contract. So this comes from the directive, this range, it's not made up anywhere, and now it's also 50 percent inside the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U630	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U631	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The coordination table reflects well the active participation in its legislative process. What's it about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U632	It says that this process has really been very long and thorough. First of all, I can't say the period now, but it certainly lasted over a year when a design plan was prepared and met and talked to the parties, stakeholders and both contracting authorities and those who participate in the procurement process with economic operators. Then this understanding, or these problems, was mapped out in the intention to develop, and this intention to develop was renegotiated and a draft was just written on it. And also the more detailed details of the draft, or, let's say, the details were further specified by the interest groups. As I recall, this process has been going on for over two years now, so it has been thorough. And I do believe that these most urgent, pressing things and certain perhaps excessive administrative burdens with this bill will be reduced. And it has also been said by both contracting authorities and economic operators that changes in this direction are in any case effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U633	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U634	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the most recent major, one might say, we have had scandals about public procurement, too, when the Minister of Education and Science, COVID, bought tests according to the special scheme. I looked, I went through the current draft, and it seems that this section has not been changed. At the same time, however, the minister, when he answered questions in the Riigikogu, said that this should be made clear in some way so that it would be understandable. How do you comment on this situation or what should be added, or should something be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U635	Thank you for your question. Usually, one thing or number which, in statistics, very well shows how this public procurement system works is disputes. In 2020, 2.7% of procurement has been challenged in Estonia and in this respect, no matter who we compare with, this is a pretty good percentage, a relatively small percentage. And I think, in many ways, there is also the question of advice, in many ways, the question of our dispute committee, who are doing a very good job. This practice is pretty well established. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that our public procurement register is almost one of the unique in fact in the European Union, where it is possible to process the whole process as well, not just to hang up information about procurement. And more and more below the rate of procurement will be made there. Less than the mandatory rate. As regards the procurement of the HTM, or rapid tests by the Ministry of Education and Research, I have also explained this here. I don't want to make those assessments on the move. More generally speaking of this negotiation rather than an open tender, 2020 and last year showed that more were done. And here were certain specific procurements caused by the corona. As far as the procurement of the Ministry of Education and Research is concerned, the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of my administration, is currently carrying out a monitoring procedure. That's why I don't want to go into the details. I'm sure they'll check all the facts. All the materials have been taken out. We, too, during this process, and which was not denied by the Minister for Education and Science, that we actually referred to it already then, and I also referred to it in the office, how could this first one have been done. The second was already done quite well according to these instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U636	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U637	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Will this law also correct this bottleneck, where public authorities in particular have always been forced to opt for the most favourable and cheapest offer in the case of procurement, regardless of whether it fits these conditions and needs and whether it is compatible with these requirements? Has this bottleneck been finally resolved with this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U638	Thank you for your question. In fact, the current law also allows quite a lot to put quality conditions in place and does not have to choose only the cheapest price. On the contrary, if this price is somewhere very clearly below the other tender, the contracting authority will be able to cancel it and not count it. So these are the details. In any case, however, the main factor is who should consider exactly what the proportion of the price is. And these proportions we are now making more flexible, it is also possible to determine these proportions differently. It is still the competence of the contracting authority, the contracting authority itself must be competent to determine the conditions under which the quality of the procurement can also be obtained. And then these offers are high quality. It's not like you have to take the cheapest price. Rather, if we are here, the European Commission has also said that you have too much that you are taking the cheapest price. Neither the law nor the directive makes this happen. And there is even more flexibility inside to actually consider quality more than price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U639	Good Minister, there are no more questions for members of the Riigikogu. Thank you. Now we will listen to the presentation by the Economic Commission and this will be done by Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U640	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin my presentation on the point made by my good colleague Aivar Koka on this large draft. Yes, indeed, it is very substantial and more than half of it is actually a table of coordination. I was just wondering what was going on here. Feedback has been given by five law firms, eight ministries, eleven professional associations, two universities, six contracting authorities under the dominant influence of the state. I concluded that there were a total of 96 calculations, 89 omissions, and also explanations and notes. So we really have to admit, and there is a great deal of work done. As the minister said, a long time done, beautiful. Well, that's how he's gonna be here. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this in two sessions. The first one was assigned to this bill, 491 SE waitress, and I was appointed to do so. The second session discussed the substance. The first session was held on 14 December last year and the second session was held on Monday, 10 January this year. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, and his advisors, were present. In terms of content, the minister introduced the draft to us. As he said here, it has two main objectives: firstly, to improve the practical problems encountered in implementing the law and, secondly, to bring the law into line with the Public Procurement Directive. He also explained the substance of the bill, just like here. He also mentioned that meetings with stakeholders were held to clarify the need for change, as I said, followed by the drafting of the intention to develop and then the draft was put together. The committee also had some interest in this draft law and looked at whether it would make life easier or more complicated. Misleading to procurement rules can actually cost a lot in financial and legal terms. The Minister's reply was that there has been harmonisation in many of the provisions and that the draft should therefore make the work of contracting authorities easier. At the same time, setting quality conditions and requirements, taking them into account has been modest in procurement. That is why they have been introduced here, and the direction of change is rather there to make the lives of the contracting authorities easier and also less bureaucracy. It was also examined about this same coordination table that whether the current draft is still the best compromise between the various proposals and whether there should be something else for Members to know, in addition to all that has been said. The Minister said that there were no substantive answers to the Government's coordination round, and here Minister's advisor Evelin Karindi-Kask stated that one controversial change, where the feedback of economic operators was one, and contracting authorities were the second, concerned a rather frequent situation in public procurement. This is an abnormally low percentage for tenders in construction procurement. The involvement showed that they could be different in procurement. It is possible to set a percentage of the difference in procurement within certain limits. At this point there was a slight difference of opinion that economic operators thought that this range should be smaller, and contracting authorities, on the contrary, higher. These were the key issues that were discussed. The Commission decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, 19 January, and the second decision to close the first reading was taken. Both decisions were taken by consensus. I guess that's it, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U641	Thank you, George! There's no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U642	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I want to congratulate the Minister first. When I read this bill, it's readable. Of course, it's thick enough to chew through it properly and review all the lines. There are some things that seem a little suspicious at the moment of the first look, but next to it it is written that it is the transposition of directives. You don't have to take over everything. And when I read here and I asked the Minister that 50% of the content in the procurement can be changed, it does not give rise to hesitation, but even suspicion. The current Public Procurement Act, which we dealt with in the previous term, was 15%, and if there is more than 15%, then we have to tender again, because we must not create a situation where you may have to agree with the contracting authority to change the side. There is still a great deal to change the price when changing half of the price. Having done construction myself, at the end of my entire school time, at the end of my university, I know very well how public procurement is offered. And if there's a way to change the materials, details, as well as the works, or some jobs, which are very expensive, you're going to put it much lower on the offer. These things certainly need to be looked at, and I hope that this draft will not be too hasty in the Committee on Economic Affairs, so that all members of the Riigikogu can calmly delve into it, so that it is very important. I remember that last time the law on public procurement was passed in the Riigikogu, it was such a historic accident that the Riigikogu did not accept it at third reading and two weeks later it was re-reading a third reading, the Riigikogu passed and this public procurement law became the best law of this year, was finally declared. I hope that this law will do the same. I know that the officials of the Committee on Economic Affairs are very good and will certainly follow it in a row. And knowing the Commission's handler, I know that you're always very correct, too, and you're always going over it. I hope that this bill will be a good thing, because one of the most important things in the previous public procurement law that was in force today that could then be amended, that the subcontractor is also a person. Because before that, the main contractor signed the contract with the contracting authority, the last invoices were often not paid to the subcontractor because the money ran out first and the principal wiped out his hands, but I paid the main contractor everything. The law currently in force states very clearly: once the subcontractor has done the work, the contracting authority must guarantee that the subcontractor receives the money. And the other part is that today the contracting authority is obliged to monitor whether subcontractors are subcontractors who have paid taxes to the state. And also in the evaluation of the main contractor, it is very important that national taxes have been paid, not just one shell company. I believe that, over the last three or four years, the public procurement system has improved considerably and, as the Minister mentioned, the protest is only 2.7% of public procurement. This shows that today's Public Procurement Act works very well. And, of course, I remember dealing with how they wanted to raise these limits, how most things could be done through simple procurement. Particularly problematic was at that point on the medical side, there were practically two procurements a year about came from such where... Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U643	Would you like three more minutes? Okay, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U644	Perhaps where there was proper procurement, the rest were all in the form of simple procurement, we changed the situation, and after that very many equipment providers felt that they could also compete, and today there are very many in public procurement, just as there is mixed public procurement, where there is also a service side afterwards. It's not like you're selling the machine cheaper, but five years you're taking exactly the same money back from the service, but now it's possible to place the time of the service in the procurement, and then the price of the service is actually the contracting authority can finally discuss the quality price. But again. And if I want to thank you, this bill is written in such a way that every member of the Riigikogu, if he botheres at all, understands it and it is rarely happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U645	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 491 SE. That concludes our first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U646	So, our 10th item is draft law 471 SE, initiated by the Government of the Republic, approving amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation, 2018. For a presentation please, Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U647	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, we are pleased to give a brief overview of the draft Act on the ratification of amendments to the ILO, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention on Maritime Labour. More specifically, as early as 2006, the ILO Maritime Labour Convention was adopted and entered into force on 20 August 2013. Estonia ratified this Convention on 23 February 2016 and this is in turn the legal space of Estonia under the Maritime Labour Act. In 2018, the ILO General Conference approved some of the amendments to the Convention, which we now also need to transpose. These amendments concern the validity of a maritime labour contract and the payment of remuneration to a crew member in a situation where a crew member is illegally detained in connection with an act of piracy or armed robbery against a ship. We will then also have to ratify these amendments, transpose them into Estonian law, and do so with the next draft law on the agenda, i.e. draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act 472 SE, under which I will then discuss these changes somewhat more thoroughly. These amendments to the convention will enter into force for Estonia six months after Estonia has notified the Director-General of the ILO, or International Labour Organisation, of the approval of these amendments by the Riigikogu. Thank you. And if there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U648	Heiki Hepner would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U649	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Do you know how much of our powerful fleet this could affect, apart from passenger ships now moving between our great islands and passenger ships moving between Tallinn and Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U650	This particular amendment, the amendment to the Convention, concerns these ships, let us say, shipowners whose vessel has a certificate of service at sea. And there are nine shipowners in Estonia who have a certificate of service at sea, whose ships hold a certificate of service at sea. If you want, I can send you a more detailed list later. But let me be clear that, so far, there has been no known situation in Estonia in which there have been cases on board any of our shipowners' ships in foreign waters that could be regarded as piracy or armed robbery. Of course I do, and we all hope to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U651	Okay, no more questions. Thank you! On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Urve Tiidus will give us an overview, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U652	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Colleagues! The draft just presented by Minister Kiige was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 January. This is the approval of the 2018 amendments to the Maritime Labour Code of the International Labour Organisation. The Convention, as we all know very well in this Chamber, is a form of an international agreement. In most cases, it has been developed by an international organisation. The present draft aims to approve those amendments to the Convention Code which were adopted in Geneva in 2018, as the Minister of Health and Labour has just explained, he also did very nicely to the members of the Commission. And just in the end, the shipowner is obliged to continue to pay the crew member remuneration in a situation where the crew member has been illegally detained by an act of piracy or armed robbery against the ship. Some specific questions were also raised by the Members of the Commission. The first was why the two drafts on the same subject are pending. And Tanel Kiik has just mentioned that there are technical reasons for this. This specific 471 SE concerns the ratification by the Riigikogu of amendments to the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention and today's next 472 SE concerns the introduction of these amendments into Estonian law. They can, of course, be discussed together, but legally they must be two separate drafts, said Tanel Kiik to the members of the committee. There was also one question on a completely different subject: is it possible to make an amendment to the law that would allow seafarers from third countries to carry out maritime training and deposit their certificates in Estonia? Liis Tõnismaa, adviser to the Development Department of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained that the training of crew members is under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and is regulated instead by the Maritime Safety Act, which the Ministry of Social Affairs cannot change. And just like Heiki Hepner has just been asked, how many cases of piracy involving Estonian shipowners and sailors are there. And the minister replied that as of now, there are nine of the shipowners that are at all affected by this issue, and there are no cases to be treated as piracy or armed robbery. The economic and social impact is therefore negligible until the moment when this event should occur. And on my part, such an opinion that, as mathematicians say about it, probability is not zero. And on the subject of piracy, perhaps another example of statistics. This was not discussed in the Commission, but, for example, compared to 1994, this figure of piracy was 445 incidents in the world's seas and 132 incidents last year, simply to show this situation. The Commission also took procedural decisions: to put the agenda on 19 January; to close the first reading. Set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 February and Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the representative of the commission. All these decisions were consensual and involved Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Tiidus and Toomast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U653	Thank you for this very thorough and interesting presentation. [[Laughing.]] There were no questions, Urve. The commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading, but before we do, we need to examine whether the political groups have any requests to speak. No, it doesn't. Then the first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U654	Our last item today is draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 472 SE, and here too, the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, gives us an overview of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U655	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Now we would really talk about the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour (472 SE), with which we will transpose the 2018 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention into Estonian law, which I spoke about under the previous item on the agenda, and Mr Tius, in turn, has just spoken about. This draft makes the following amendments to the Maritime Labour Act more precise. First, the obligation to continue to pay remuneration to a crew member, including other charges entitled under law, contract of employment or collective agreement, shall be imposed on a ship-owner who holds a certificate of service at sea in a situation where a crew member is illegally detained in connection with an act of piracy or armed robbery against the ship. The law also provides that, where a shipowner and a crew member have agreed to transfer the remuneration of a crew member to a third party's bank account, payments to the same third party must continue to be made during the detention of the crew member. It also goes to the law that the obligation to pay the shipowner's salary applies throughout the period of detention of the crew member until his release and his journey home. It is important to point out the worst case scenario: if a crew member dies during detention, the obligation to pay shall remain valid until his death. The validity of a maritime employment contract shall also be extended during the detention of a member of the crew, whether either party has expressed a wish to terminate the contract of employment or even when the term of the fixed-term maritime employment contract has arrived. Maybe it's an offer of such a very clear social guarantee for a crew member. In theory, for shipowners, these changes may lead to unplanned costs, have a negative impact on the economic performance of shipowners, while for the other half, these changes may have a positive impact on the livelihood of crew members' households, but this requires all such negative scenarios to materialise. As pointed out earlier, in recent years there have been a few hundred of these cases in the world as a whole today. As I pointed out under the previous point, according to the Transport Board, there are nine Fridays in Estonia whose ships have a maritime licence and who are affected by it. However, according to the Transport Board, there have been no cases in foreign waters on the ships of Estonian shipowners, which in turn could be regarded as either piracy or armed robbery. So it sounded right that the probability might not be zero, but the probability is definitely not high either. So the social economic impact is of little importance and we all hope that such cases will not occur in the future. Perhaps these amendments to the convention and to the law have been made in "just in case," to be implemented in the worst-case scenario.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U656	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U657	Good manager! Good minister! We have just passed one of those laws on Piirissaare, as far as possible, or on a Dutch sailor who might want to work on the Boundary Line, which, according to a 'zero' representative, means something. And now the next one is, which in itself is also such a good one, but theoretical and, as I understand it, its probability is roughly the same as that possible Dutch sailor's wish to work on Piirissaar. But now, to be a little more specific, what is the risk at all and in which parts of the world sea that this bill needs to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U658	Thank you. In theory, he may happen, in all parts of the world's sea, but it is clear that he is not likely to affect our region, perhaps just as there was a debate in the Commission, in the Baltic Sea region, it can be said that these cases, similar to piracy or still occurring during the Vikings, will remain in the time of 1,000 or more years. But in the world as a whole, according to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), there were 192 acts of piracy and armed robbery in 2020, but they really concerned the oceans and seas beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U659	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U660	Thanks! Good minister! What opportunities do our seafarers have for legal protection if they are citizens of the Republic of Estonia, but they happen to be under the flag of Latvia, for example, so how can they expect help then, there are thoughts here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U661	Thank you. In such situations, of course, countries will cooperate intensively, i.e. that the various embassies, the foreign ministries will probably also be our ministry, but generally I dare to believe that I do not dare 100% to say that Latvia has adopted this same maritime labour convention, as well as to accept, presumably doing the same legal procedures in its own country, perhaps that these same guarantees, so as to obtain this remuneration until... the country is discovered, should also apply to them, provided that the Republic of Latvia also brings the convention over its legal space. Here, too, we hope that such cases will not be needed, that we have really had similar situations with the detention of people, where the country has had to intervene, but, fortunately, not in the context of acts of piracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U662	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U663	Good manager and good minister! We don't have any pirate grass, but we have famous pirate hunters. I personally do. And now that it was in the world's sea from 192 to 2020, maybe you'll specify where most of the 192 at sea or where it happened. And you have also modeled, for example, that if we have a high target that at least 300 cargo ships would come under the flag of Estonia, how much is their probability that they would be in the place where most pirates could visit ships, how much is their probability that they would meet even if we had 300 ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U664	Thanks for asking. I will be honest with you that these models have not now been produced by a separate ministry. But if there is a wish, then surely for these cases, 192, as I referred to, and in previous years also in the order of 200, we can send these data, the information that we have in writing, in which regions exactly. If I were to start offering here, the risk of slipping is quite high, as, fortunately on a daily basis, there has not been much in-depth knowledge in this area yet, but it will certainly also be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U665	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U666	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, Latvia, as our good neighbour, will probably ratify it if not, at least in the future. But I guess there are countries that don't. And indeed, now that the question is that, once we have ratified it, the cost for the shipowner is basically lower if he can keep his ships under a flag state, where it is not, because the risks are lower and perhaps some premiums are lower as a result. How do you judge now? We've wanted a maximum of ships to come under our flag. However, could this be another obstacle to the fact that the shipowners are saying that no, no, we are not coming because we have the risks that our costs are higher. Has it been mapped out in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U667	Thank you. Various Estonian maritime labour organisations are involved in this process, for example, the Estonian Shipowners' Association and others are concerned. There have also been technical clarifications here, but rather the risk, as I referred to earlier, has been estimated to be so small that, as a result, it has not at least caused economic concern, as we know, either in existing shipowners or perhaps in the future. But, after all, the purpose of these various conventions is to offer the same kind of agreements and rules as much as possible around the world. As I referred to earlier, it is not a European legal initiative, but an International Labour Organisation, which actually has an even wider reach. And all such countries, which may be of importance to workers and their employers, both in terms of obligations and rights, have still approved these conventions and are implementing similar measures. So I would not overestimate such risks so that the ships would move out of the Estonian flag. Rather, there are probably more of these arguments, they are tax policy, they are prestigious, they are all kinds of infrastructure and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U668	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U669	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U670	The view of the Committee on Legal Affairs is presented by Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U671	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a draft of 472 at its meeting on 10 January. The minister presented the draft, as we have heard today. In particular, Tanel Kiik explained that the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act was the introduction into national law of the amendments to the ILO Maritime Labour Code of 2018. He said that the possible effects of the changes were, on the one hand, a risk of unplanned expenditure on shipowners and, on the other hand, an improvement in the livelihood of crew members' households. Decisions were also taken at this meeting and the following decisions were taken: To put the draft on the plenary agenda, including by 19 January, to propose the completion of the first reading, to propose the deadline for the amendments to be fixed at 2 February and to appoint Heljo Pikhof, Vice-Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-19_U672	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 472. We're done with this nicely. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 February. Ladies and gentlemen, the story is that the agenda has run out. I must wish you a lovely evening and a safe journey home. The sitting is adjourned.
