ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good Internet watchers! Mr Stefanchuk, Chairman of Verhovna Rada, dear friend Ruslan! It is my great pleasure and honour to welcome you to the Riigikogu. This video meeting is an important opportunity for the Estonian Parliament to express its support for the Ukrainian parliament and the people. In a war in which Ukraine is fighting for the future of the democratic community, it is our duty to help you in every possible way, in word and deed. The address of the Riigikogu on 14 March was part of this, and Ukraine can rest assured that our support will continue. Good Ruslan! I know that in addition to the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, very many people in Estonia are currently waiting for you to address. Thanks for being with us! You have the word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U2	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Personally, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and on behalf of the entire nation, I would like to thank all of you and personally, dear Jüri Ratas, for the important decisions that have been taken earlier and for the call for important decisions to be taken by the United Nations Member States in order to prohibit flights over Ukraine, i.e. the introduction of no-fly zone. I would like to stress personally that you were the first foreign parliament to take such a decision. The constant bombings and missile attacks carried out by the Russian Federation against peaceful people and cities are causing mass victims every day among the peaceful people. The whole world must unite to stop the murders that are justified by nothing. We have become resilient and we have seen who are true friends of Ukraine and who truly believes in freedom, democracy, who believes in personal choice and to whom they are not just words, but a position worth fighting for and dying for. I can say that the people of Estonia and the Estonian Parliament are among our true friends. We appreciate it, and we remember it. But it's too early to take stock. We are only at the beginning of the hot fight with the Russian dictatorship that Putin wants to impose on the whole world. Ukraine, which is currently at the forefront of the fight for a free and peaceful Europe, needs, in particular and even more, military, economic, financial and humanitarian aid. Ukraine needs concrete steps to become a member of the European Union. It is for this European choice that Putin decided to punish Ukraine, starting on 24 February with the invasion and bombing. He wanted to scare us and force us to turn down this European perspective. And you'll see we're not broken. Now is the time for the countries of the European Union to say their word and to welcome us to the European Union. Today we fight and die for our common ideals. I ask you today to make every effort to dissuade all those members of the European Union who still have doubts and finally legal and politically formalise Ukraine's membership of the European Union. The adoption of Ukraine into the European Union will bring to an end Putin's plans for the restoration of the Soviet Union. This is what you can and can do now. We'll do the rest. We defend ourselves and Europe, we defend ourselves now and for a long time. Our European and Euro-Atlantic objectives are enshrined in the Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to another important aspect. In addition to Ukraine's resistance, the real pressure from sanctions is another blow to the Putin regime. You can't stop here. Sanctions must be strengthened, but it is also time to introduce an embargo on Russian energy carriers in order for the regime to bleed to death. I understand that this will also have economic consequences, but the final victory is clear to the whole world and it is worth it. The blood of innocent children, women and the elderly, as well as the blood of the best sons and daughters, has been killed on Russian oil and gas. Our colleagues from Lithuania, whom we met, already took the initiative to establish a connection on behalf of Ukraine at U4U. Such coalitions should already be working to help Ukraine. We join our friends in the European Union to guarantee final support, to work together or to continue working so that Europe's countries, European business, do not do business with Russia, or aggressor. We will continue to work together to build a prosperous Europe together. We have a neighbor who doesn't want to breathe freely or let others do it. But we in Ukraine were born with the gene of freedom, not with the gene of slavery, and that is why we are willing to pay the price, the higher price. We are not fighting such a ruthless Russian aggressor for the first time, but it is possible that, for the first time, the democracy of Europe and the whole world has joined behind us. We see that the Estonian people are with us and we are not alone. Long live Ukraine! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U3	Good Ruslan, thank you so much for having this opportunity! I hope that our meetings will soon be able to move forward in the same normal rhythm as they were before the war. Good luck to you and to all the people of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U4	Good fellows! Let us now go to the implementation of today's sitting. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. I ask the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, The words of the Speaker of the Grand Raamat were going and moving for all of us, and the task of contributing more to the persuasion of our allies and of being prepared to do [more]. It is certainly also a guiding principle for us to defend the internal security of our country and not for a moment to tolerate the use of symbolism in our public space, which is publicly supportive of the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine. The Isamaa Group therefore initiates a draft amendment to the Penal Code, which provides for a ban and sanctions for the use of internationally widespread symbolism in support of the Russian Federation's aggression war against Ukraine, with a view to expressing support for the military activities of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Of course, its content is furnished by police officers in accordance with the text of this section, whether it is in this context using the letter Z, the tape of Georgi or other symbols. I hope that this bill will be enforced without delay in the current critical situation. We must not, for a moment, tolerate the tacit acceptance, whether in social media or in physical public space, of the dissemination of such a propaganda of war in the form of symbols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U6	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Anti Polandmets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I hereby hand over the draft law amending the Weapons Act. The draft allows only the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, the European Union and NATO Member States to hold firearms on the territory of Estonia. Estonia's foreign policy situation has changed significantly since Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Russia has shown aggression and also threatened NATO Member States. We have a situation in which, according to the figures for 2020, we have about 1300 citizens of the Russian Federation and persons of undefined nationality holding an Estonian weapons permit and firearms. In social media accounts, Russian insignia poses. There are also documented cases where a group of shooters holding an Estonian weapons permit will rise and sing the Russian anthem together. Russian shooting clubs also cooperate closely with Russian sportsmen and instructors. Russian citizens with an Estonian weapons permit may be exploited by Russian security authorities. Therefore, we have reason to allow the right to have firearms only for Estonian citizens, citizens of the European Union and citizens of NATO Member States. In addition, the bill provides for the completion of the weapons exams by means of an interpreter. It is not conceivable that persons who apply for a weapons permit and possess a weapon do not speak the official language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U8	Riigikogu speech chair Raivo Tamme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U9	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You want peace, prepare for war. In this way of thinking, we need to consider a lot of things and think about a lot of things. As for Chekhov's plays, if a gun hangs on the wall at the beginning of the first act, at the end of the last act, the gun will also bang. I don't know if it's meant to be a testimonial of the Russian soul or whether it's everywhere, in all homes. However, in this context, the Isamaa Group is proposing a draft amendment to the arms law so that, in the context of the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine, the arms permits of citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus living in Estonia are suspended, and the citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus are required to dispose of or deposit with the Police and Border Guard Board within 14 days of the entry into force of this Act in accordance with procedures established by the Minister of Internal Affairs. Long live Ukraine!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U10	I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U11	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates the draft law amending the Estonian National Library Act and the Copyright Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture in the proceedings of the draft law. This bill has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U12	Thank you. Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U13	75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. I'm sorry, Marko Mihkelson! Stop. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U14	Thank you. Mr President, I have a question about the agenda. For what reasons, the Bureau decided that the fourth item on Wednesday, which is the presentation by the Minister of Social Affairs of 2022 on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" and the last, fourth item on Thursday, was the corresponding presentation by the Minister of Defence, which also refers to "Estonia 2035" that in their case a discussion format has been selected in the Riigikogu, where only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations and the majority of the Riigikogu remains silent? Why did the Bureau not come up with a proposal that all members of the Riigikogu, members of different political groups and those who do not belong to any political group could participate in the discussion of such important documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U15	Thank you, Honourable Helir-Valdor Seeder. We have had this debate in this House; we actually had the same debate in the House of Elders. And on what grounds? The basis is the Home and Working Procedures Act, which currently provides that "Estonia 2035," these long-term development strategies, these presentations will be dealt with as stated in the point of the law. Perhaps the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. And the law says that there is one question, unless otherwise decided in cooperation with the Minister. We have also had this debate in the body of elders. You know that. It is a new format in this sense, as a result of this "Estonia 2035" and is currently dealt with in accordance with the current section of the law. So this is the law of the house and the rules of procedure. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U16	Thank you, good Chairman! I see that we have two very important insights that remind us of such ministerial stand-ups. But I'll make sure that Kalle Laanet's is the last one left. If we still have important issues in advance here on Thursday, why is he deliberately left for last? [Would it be so that he would now fall out of the proceedings and in the week after that we could come back to [this] again? Is the goal just to mark that Kalle Laane is ready? Or if it is substantive and important, it could be reflected even today, looking at how short today's agenda is. Can't we move it around?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U17	Thank you. I can't tell you exactly where all 15 members of the government are, but these things are always born in cooperation with the members of the government of the Republic. Maybe the minister's on a foreign mission. Why is this the last point on Thursday? It was the consideration of the Riigikogu's board that the three points that are previously dealt with and then the fourth point should be dealt with. In case we do not have time to discuss this, you are right that in the meantime there is a week without sitting, and then we have to come back to it. A procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U18	Thank you. Yeah, I wasn't expecting such a formal answer to my question. Formally, indeed, the Rules of Procedure Act provides the basis for us to deal with this item, or these two, in this way. I would have expected a substantive explanation as to why we do not wish to give the floor to the members of the Riigikogu for negotiation. These are indeed strategic documents. Now it turns out that only the representatives of the political groups [will speak]. But I also have a specific amendment to the agenda[proposal] to which Tarmo Kruusimäe has already referred. On Thursday, the last item on the agenda is such an important item on the Bureau's agenda as I would like to draw attention to: in the current situation, the presentation of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." If I look at this agenda, it can really happen that on Thursday we may not be able to process it. There will be a week off, and we should come back in a week and a half and continue with this item on the agenda. This is very impractical and very unreasonable. Consequently, I have the proposal to place this item on, for example, Tuesday's second agenda item. We only have one item on Tuesday. And in case we can't handle it on Tuesday, it'll shift on Wednesday. There is no limit on working time on Wednesday, so we can definitely discuss it. So the proposal is to move this item to a second item on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U19	Thank you. I will first answer the first procedural question on the side where you said it was a formality. Yes, on the one hand, it is a formality, but on the other, I believe that we are also facing a practical question. These reviews will take place every year in the framework of "Estonia 2035." The question is whether it is the will to extend negotiations or not. This must be an agreement in this Chamber. Now the other side, your proposal number two. You have the right to make this proposal, and if there are no objections here, this proposal will also be here on Tuesday. According to my information, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has been in contact with the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence has requested that this debate be held on 24 March, which is Thursday. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U20	Thank you, good Chairman! Last week, we set a precedent: we came up and gave the Prime Minister the opportunity to respond to an inquiry on a Wednesday day. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Now I see that we already have the Minister of Education and Science here to answer two questions. Are we now changing any practice, or is it that we take very lightly when the minister can come to the Riigikogu to answer questions? What is the reason you have two questions for Wednesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U21	Thank you for this question. As far as I am aware, the Government of the Republic is on a trip to Ida-Virumaa on 21 and 22 March, i.e. also on Monday, when enquiries are usually answered. Both requests for information, both No 115 and No 117, are due on 24 March, Thursday. Therefore, Wednesday is the only way to respond to an inquiry. That's the answer. Henn Põllamaas... No, I'm sorry, Henn Põllamaas! A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U22	Thank you, good Chairman! I have a simple question: will the ministers be surprised at these meetings? Or maybe it is always possible for ministers to answer questions a little earlier than the deadline? Otherwise, we're gonna have to see again that, oh, the deadline's coming, we're gonna do some Wednesday or some other day. Could you call the ministers to order and say that they would still follow the first situation and answer to the members of the Riigikogu, and then have out-of-court sessions, so that the trill and troll would still come after work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U23	Thank you. I don't think these trips are gonna be a trill or a drill. But as far as I know in a particular case, the minister wanted to answer earlier, but it was not possible because of illness, and so it remained here at the last moment. As far as I am concerned, this was not so immediately the first wish expressed that it would be this week on Wednesday 23 March. Now there are speeches. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U24	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I propose to remove the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act granting international protection to foreigners from the Tuesday agenda of this week. It's been standing in a drawer for over a year, and now suddenly, suddenly, he's arrived at this table, completely distorted and inverted. And in order not to leave the day empty, I propose that the Secretary of Defense's presentation be brought from Thursday to Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U25	Thank you. We have two proposals. First of all, the first suggestion. And I want or ask the Riigikogu Hall to respond. The first proposal has come from the Isamaa Group, which has asked for the fourth item on Thursday to be included on the Tuesday agenda. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U26	Yeah, thanks! In my opinion, the Bureau has done a very good job and received a sensible agenda for us. The Reform Party Group does not agree to change the agenda, i.e. it does not agree with the amendments of either the Fatherland or the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U27	The first amendment was not supported. Now I would like to say on this second amendment, which is proposed by the EKRE Group, that on Tuesday the first item on the agenda of this week should be removed from our agenda pursuant to Article 54 (4) of the Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which says that once the agenda is announced, the draft will be excluded from the agenda on the proposal of the initiator, the drafter or the commission. As far as I know, the draft is not initiated by the EKRE on this point, nor is the draft author or commission, so I cannot even deal with it. Erkki Keldo, please! Uh-huh. Thank you. So, therefore, good colleagues, let us go to the preparation of the vote on this week's agenda. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 9th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U28	With the result of 48 votes against 24 and 1 abstention, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U29	Let's start working on the first item on Monday this week. This is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Riigikogu of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council" as submitted by the Committee on Culture. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu decided at its meeting on 14 March this year to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. We know that the Estonian National Broadcasting Council is made up of members of the Riigikogu and recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Riigikogu appoints one representative from each of the political groups of the Riigikogu until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu and four experts from among recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting whose mandate lasts five years. The reason for the appointment of a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council is today Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, submitted on 10 March of this year, for the resignation of a member of the Supervisory Board at his own request. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] According to § 15 (4) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, the Riigikogu is obliged to appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board within three working weeks. On 10 March this year, the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu proposed the appointment of Indrek Saar as a new member of the Broadcasting Council. The Committee on Culture dealt with this draft at its committee meeting, which took place via the video bridge on Monday, 14 March. The meeting was chaired by Aadu Must, Chairman of the Commission. Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Commission official Urvo Klopets took part. Aadu Must said that the Commission has examined Jevgeni Ossinovski's wish to resign as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council and the Social Democratic Party Group has also nominated a new member of the Council, namely Indrek Saar. The chairman of the committee proposed to initiate the draft if the Riigikogu Board adopts the draft and appoints the commission as the commission of culture, appoint Heidy Purga as the representative of the commission, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the first reading on 21 March and hold a final vote. The Commission decided consensually: firstly, to initiate the draft, secondly, to put the draft into procedure and appoint a Committee on Culture as the lead committee and to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the first reading on 21 March 2022, thirdly, to propose a final vote on the draft, and fourthly, to appoint Heidy Purga as the representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U31	Thank you, good waitress. Any questions? Thank you. I agree, it was a good report, really. I now ask whether the groups want to open negotiations. Looks like it's clear, too. You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments can be tabled to the draft, and there is nothing left to do but try to enforce and implement the decision of the commission to hold a final vote today. Let's start preparing it. Good fellows, I'll put a draft of 550 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U32	With the result of 71 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council has been adopted as a 550 decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U33	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu statement by Priit Sibula, Urmas Reinsalu, Mikhail Lotmani, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Heiki Hepneri, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe, Aivar Koka, Sven Sesteri, Kalle Grünthali, Peeter Ernitsa, Henn Põlluaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Riho Breiveli, Anti Polandmets, Jaak Valge, Reuben Kaalepi, Alar Lanemani, Kert Kingo, Leo Kunnase, Paul Puustusmaa, Andres Metsoja and Merry Aarti on the national interests of Estonia in the negotiations of the climate package "Escape 55." I ask Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U34	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Of course, our thoughts are now linked to the war against Ukraine, but also to other social problems, the social problems with great impact are waiting to be addressed, which are inherited from this period of peace. And I think that, when assessing this state of peace, it can be said that the 'Objective 55' climate package is the European decision with the greatest socio-economic impact in this House, which this Parliament is going to make or has to make. This draft statement was preceded by an earlier story, such a prelude, which was actually due to the concerns and dissatisfaction of MEPs by the fact that the positions presented by the Government of the Republic were unworkable, the effects unassessed, and the substantive wordings of positions did not adequately correspond to the interests of the consumers, entrepreneurs and the state of the Republic of Estonia. As a result, the Riigikogu formed a separate support group for the protection of Estonian national interests in the negotiations on the "Objective 55" climate package. This support group met at a round table with representatives of a large number of interest organisations and this round table in the breeds was also shaped by its amendments to the positions of the Government of the Republic. With regret, I have to say that they received minimal attention in the Committee on European Union Affairs, which shaped Parliament's final mandate for the government's position, and perhaps with a few tens of minutes' vote political decisions were decided on tens of billions of euros. Undoubtedly, this quality of decision does not suffer any criticism in terms of importance and quality of preparation, because every common sense says that the more important and weighty the decision, the more thorough the decision maker should go into it. Now, the interest groups and organisations with whom the support group contacted and who participated in the round table were the Association of Estonian Associations of Pensioners, the organisation that the government did not consider it necessary to include in the coordination circle for the positions of the climate package, the Estonian Owners' Confederation of the same position, the Estonian Association of Housing Associations, the Estonian Association of Chemical Industries, the Estonian Association of Forest Industries, the International Association of Car Carriers, the Estonian Association of Small Enterprises, the Forest Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Confederation of Farmers. We also contacted Tallink as our most influential organisation for maritime transport. And it has to be acknowledged that this round table has given rise to an unambiguous and clear view that, at this stage, the situation has not really changed, but that it has become far more unpredictable; it is not possible for these interest organisations to assess the effects that this whole package will entail. And that is why there is certainly an appeal, and we now come to the content of this statement, which the statement seeks, that these effects must be assessed in substance, and that only after the impact assessment both by the Government of the Republic and by the European Commission can a binding mandate be passed on to the government for negotiation. The draft statement was also discussed in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. I proposed inviting the representatives of the interest organisations with whom, according to the round table, this statement pushed. Regrettably, the Commission did not consider it necessary to do so. And I would like to stress that the Riigikogu, in particular when talking about the constitutional mandate, has confirmed with the mandate of this House the 'Principles of climate policy until 2050'. And if you read the basics of climate policy, which have been endorsed by this House, and the proposals of 'Fit 55', they are certainly in the same direction, but they differ in substance. And this "Objective 55" climate package has a wide-ranging impact on the competitiveness of Estonian business, consumers, homeowners and employees. Given the enormous impact of this issue, it is important that it is at the level of the plenary statement that the Riigikogu gives a political view of the principles on which the Republic of Estonia deals with its positions in the negotiations in relation to this proposal of the European Commission. Giving a mandate to the positions of the government at the level of the Committee on European Union Affairs is not enough, it is a clear message from the applicants. And the second clear message from the applicants is, of course, that these statements do not sufficiently protect Estonia's interests. The application project has highlighted the need for impact analysis in relation to the national interests of Estonia and proposed preliminary positions which, according to the initiators, support our national interests in addressing this issue. If we take up the content of the statement now, then indeed the first proposal in this statement is that Parliament explicitly state that the government must prepare a comprehensive impact analysis on the impact of the climate package on the various target groups and on the Estonian economy as a whole. If you have reviewed, read the explanatory statement, if you have also read the analysis carried out by the audit firm, then in reality it must be acknowledged that the basic data on which the analyses have been based have actually changed significantly. And I would point out that the unit price for CO2 emission trading does not correspond in these analyses, either in the analysis of the European Commission or in the assessments of the Estonian Government, to any extent to reality. And this will undoubtedly affect the basis for the calculation of the entire socio-economic impact to an intrinsic extent. Therefore, our proposal is that first we say that the government should draw up an impact analysis and only afterwards will the Riigikogu be able to design a comprehensive mandate for the climate package, both on individual drafts and on proposals for the whole. However, of course, the negotiations in the working groups are ongoing and it would be irresponsible to leave the Government of the Republic without an initial mandate, as a result of the fact that in this case, Estonia will simply remain silent at this table and this would undoubtedly not be wise or responsible in any way. And that is why our proposal is that in this statement on the national interests of Estonia "Objective 55" the negotiations on the climate package should be guided by the following positions. First of all, the European Commission must first be asked to analyse the impact both on the draft package separately and on the country-by-country target of reducing greenhouse gas emission intensity. Secondly, it is very important that the legal services of the Council of the European Union must carry out analyses of the proposal on subsidiarity, proportionality and the appropriateness of the measures. Our fundamental proposal is based on our national interests. At present, the European Union has been confirmed with so-called Union-wide targets compared to the 1990 Paris Agreement. The European Union as a whole has set a target level up to 2040, but the situation is that Estonia is already reducing this target level by 55%. Estonia's level is that Estonia has reduced 72% compared to 1990. This is actually a very fundamental, philosophical question. When we talk about the objective, the common sense logic says that the objective must be set by Member State, each Member State must achieve it by 55%, not by the whole of the European Union. And since already ten years before the deadline for the climate package, we exceed the target set, it is unnecessary and economically punitive to impose additional binding obligations on Estonia from the point of view of the initiators of the draft. It has a completely real financial impact. On this basis, the initiators of the draft do not support Estonia in setting LULUCF and other binding targets. The idea is very simple: the Member States themselves must choose the ways to achieve a 55% reduction in emission intensity. And to bear additional obligations across countries, when we are talking about the model and this is a fundamental difference between the position of the government and the position of the government, can be discussed, but it, like emissions trading units, has its own financial impact, in which case it will also be merchantable if the country can achieve more and some country, for example, can achieve less. Now, secondly, the fundamental question is the continuation of the CO2 emission premium trading system. The Government of the Republic welcomes this system in its positions, which has led to a exponential rise in electricity prices as one of the most important factors and to the formation of an indeterminate price for electricity. Inevitably, the purpose of this whole system is to reduce the volume of units for the "Fit 55." If we reduce the volume of our units, what does that mean? This actually means that it is a purely objective pressure on the price to rise in this speculative system. The government's position is vague about designing this system so that it becomes more predictable. Whatever it means in reality, no one, no minister, no official, has been able to explain. The position of the initiators is very simple and fundamental: this system must be abandoned. This system must be abandoned in such a way that the current system of variable CO2 emission charges must be replaced by a system of pre-defined emission charges in the Community, the revenues of which are received into the budgets of the Member States and the current allocation of revenues remain in force. Today, this principle of distribution is intended to be fundamentally amended so that 100% of the money received from the budget is directed towards the realisation of climate objectives. Secondly, the SPIM measure. The initiators of the draft act support the SPIM measure as an opportunity to export the European Union's pollution taxation system to third countries, as it simply harmonises the competitive position of European Union producers with producers from third countries in the European Union market in such circumstances. However, we, the initiators of the draft, have a very important understanding that, in implementing the SPIM measure, European Union producers, including those using inputs from third countries covered by the SPIM measure, must not be placed at a competitive disadvantage when exporting to third countries. This is not some academic scholastic problem. It is very strongly linked to the interests of our economy, our trade, our producers in strategic terms, where Estonia could be a country of so-called headquarters. Next question, we are of the opinion that there is no convincing justification in the draft climate package for the need for Member States to abandon existing flexibility in energy taxation, to set tax rates, to set specifics and to keep excise rates separate from each other. This is particularly the case where the objectives of the climate package can be achieved without interfering with Member States' tax sovereignty. Thus, the initiators of the draft do not support a change to the system of excise duties on energy taxation. Similarly, we express a negative view on the creation of a new social fund for climate action and do not support the channelling of funds from Member States to increase the European Union's own resources. The next issue concerns an extremely important series of issues, the extension of the emissions trading system to new areas. This concerns, for example, buildings and road transport. Consumers, stakeholders, carriers are opposed to this and the drafters are opposed to it. The position of the government is expressed in such a vague position that I must admit: if I were an official in the working group It is said that Estonia is, you know, what? Estonia is hesitant to implement the emissions trading system for buildings. See how brave a country we have, dares to go to Brussels to negotiate and say: but we hesitate. You see, when skilled men don't take hold with their bare hands, there's no favor or answer, we hesitate. Of course, such positions are not taken seriously for one country and must be essentially corrected. Either you support a decision of principle, fundamental influence or you do not support this proposal. The next question, of course, concerns the maritime sector. With regard to the maritime sector, we are categorically opposed to the inclusion of the maritime sector in the emissions trading system. The only conceivable model for implementing the emissions trading system is, in fact, the achievement of a global agreement under the International Maritime Organisation's flag letter, otherwise we will talk about the European Union simply getting into a situation that is totally damaging to its competitive position. Of course, we stress in the statement the importance of the Government of the Republic constantly reporting on the processing of the 55 climate packages. So, in conclusion, of course, I hope that this statement will receive the support of Parliament's plenary. We need to think about our energy security, especially in this current war situation, to take urgent steps to achieve our energy independence, as regards independence from energy sources from Russia, [we need to think] about the diversification of our energy portfolio. These are important and critical steps. But we need to understand this: the position of the initiators is that the draft put on the table with such a high impact must be based on a fair logic of rules. Estonia is already meeting its target of 55% compared to 1990. We need to be able to choose our own measures and, of course, enlargement to a number of areas is not practical in the interests of our living environment and economic competitiveness and consumer interests. And I would like to emphasise once again that it is particularly incomprehensible and inquisitive that the government, although expressing and taking very strong positions at national level as regards the change of the emissions trading system, is simultaneously opening up the positions of the Government of the Republic, which are actually on a few pages, we are talking about tens of billions of euro-related documents. In fact, the [government] is not opposed to this system of emissions trading, but welcomes its continuation. Welcomes, as a whole, the balancing mechanism proposed for this package. And that certainly cannot be considered reasonable. And now I want to stress separately what is the total cost of this package, which is a comprehensive analysis. Here, representatives of the government have expressed their views and commended them for telling the truth. One minister said that such a comprehensive analysis of the financial impact has not been considered and would be pleased if it had been done and would also ask to be sent to him. The second minister said: but we cannot evaluate the analysis; we cannot assess the analysis, because the package has not been approved, you approve, you will also get the analysis. However, buying from such a pig in a bag is not simply rational and responsible. I recall that, in the analysis commissioned by the Stockholm Institute for Climate Change, it was not yet about the burden on consumers; it was excluded because it was completely neutral, it was not taken into account, it was said that it would be paid by the consumer, and that we would not have to take into account the EUR 17 billion that was spoken of. On the current issue, it is expected that this amount will increase. Whether it's multiplied by two, three, five, there's actually no answer to that. Whoever takes out this report prepared by the audit firm, then with all due respect for the auditors trained, it is quite a comical reading, the quality of which in the impact assessment category can in no way be... Well, it's a run-through from under the bar. This rather was the work of the subscriber material in order to achieve politically streamlined justification. Ten more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U35	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U36	Thank you. Now, this series of topics concerning this report and its analysis. We must realise that there is no doubt that those who point out that it will be adopted by qualified majority vote are right. But the state must have its own positions. A country without positions is certainly not sensible in the very serious, very legitimate economic interests that European countries face in achieving this overall majestic objective. It's nothing to be ashamed of. We can't deny that. Our positions can be appreciated, our positions can be loved, our positions can be hated, that is the position of those other parties, our partners. But the message in drawing up this statement is one and clear: we must be taken into account, because it is our duty to stand up for our businesses, our consumers, undoubtedly our nature and our environment and our competitiveness. And in the current situation, as presented, this package will worsen our competitive situation and do so with unfair logic, as I pointed out to the balances that countries have reached in relation to the 1990 benchmark. So in the current situation, as I said, our eyes and minds are bound up with the crisis in Ukraine, but, of course, there are other strategic problems to be looked at in this environment. Undoubtedly, they too have an intrinsic bearing on the present war. We need to resolve the issues of how to separate ourselves from Russian gas supplies without delay. We certainly need to find solutions to the power generation capacities that we control. This is extremely important. I have been called into question by everyone on behalf of the government: of course, 1000 megawatts for at least two years, a decision must be made. Everyone says it's coming, but let's make that decision! This is an elementary benchmark for owners' expectations, which is also expected by Eesti Energia. So, my friends, this is a decision with immense effect, with immense effect, or a circle of decisions taken by this Parliament on the basis of irreversibility. And they say that it has already been discussed, it has been discussed in Parliament. The positions of the government then, we know, were not on the table in this Chamber when it was in the Riigikogu, when the European Union Affairs Commission held such a general ecumenical debate on this. So, in my opinion, we have to act, we have to act without delay. Estonia must act as a parliamentary state and establish its political parliamentary mandate as a legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U37	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! Thank you for this thorough and in-depth presentation. I have two questions for you. As we know, Objective 55 aims to combat climate change. Could you please show us what the initiators' view of the causes of climate change is? My second question is that, as we know, this goal of achieving a 50% reduction in emissions was agreed at a time when we had a government that included the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Centre Party, and I have heard that it was precisely the Fatherland that stood for this decision to be confirmed by the government in this form and that it was very important. I wanted to ask whether you are still supporting this objective as such and simply want to consider, analyse and negotiate further ways of achieving it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U39	Thank you, Raimond! As always, question on the nail! But let's get slices. The first reference to what this draft is, I would like to mention, the pathos in relation to the causes of climate warming. Of course, the climate is warming for both man-made and natural reasons. This statement does not call into question at all. He does not question the basic principles of climate policy adopted by the Riigikogu until 2050. He does not question the fact that the European Commission is legitimate to make these proposals, for which we are currently discussing what Estonia's opposition positions might be. However, what we want to stress about these proposals is: I categorically disagree that already a squeak, a message that we have our own national interests, that an approach of some kind is unfair or stupid or unreasonable, is immediately declared reactionary, unnecessary. Everyone accept blindly and only hope for the lighter punishment that the future will bring. No, of course we do not agree with this view. We need to express our positions. Of course, there is no point in the government [going] to the negotiating table, and this position does not bear it if we deny this package proposal as such. It is irrational; it does not allow us to achieve change in the negotiating position, in fact. I reminded you that we must understand and draw on the fact that most decisions are taken by qualified majority, which also determines the dynamics of this decision in reality. So there's a country out there that's neutral about a particular bill or against it. Now, the question that I have overstated: our proposal is far from being that we are simply saying to analyse and so forth. That would be, of course, if we were to stop there, a cowardly position. We remember the criticism that was made about the government of Jüri Ratas, we remember, in the formulation of the previous climate target, where the government took and analysed how much it would cost. The analysis was not fully successful, but there was at least something there and from its surface, a decision was made on the basis of evidence. I think it was basically a responsible duty of care, Mr. Kaljulaid. The theme circle, which concerns what we consider to be basically necessary, I will repeat them briefly. The objectives of "Fit 55" must be set on a country-by-country basis. Secondly, the current emissions trading system, which is such a stock exchange or a speculative logic, must be abandoned. Thirdly, countries must have autonomy in order to meet the objective of a country's benchmark compared to 1990, the countries must be able to choose for themselves in substance. Fourthly, we are not [supported] the mandatory payment of emissions trading, in our vision of payment, so to speak, the extension of the quota exchange to [other] sectors. We do not support its expansion, separately, to the maritime sector, autonomously in the European Union, separate from the global agreement, not to buildings, not to road transport. It has assigned effects. All interest organisations... Mr. Kaljulaid, have you read the coordination table on page 194 of the Government's letter? In fact, it is full of views where representatives of sectors say that it has indeterminately risky consequences for their sector, but they do not appreciate it because there are no impact analyses. There are no impact analyses on the surface of the drafts, as there are a whole cascade of drafts, and there are no impact analyses, of course, by sector at Estonian level. As far as the position of Isamaa is concerned, the honest answer is that this package came on the table in the spring of 2021 as a so-called first presentation and the government's positions were shaped in 2021, I do not remember, in late winter or autumn, the positions of the government that came to Parliament and have been modified to a certain extent. Although our party has not formed any position on the "Fit 55" in the past, at a time of government, because it simply was not physically on the table. That is the answer briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U40	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U41	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a thorough review! I also think it is elementary that, on such an important issue as this climate package now, Parliament is shaping its position. Not just discusses, but shapes the position and gives the executive authority a mandate. The fact that we have been discussing in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we have been discussing in the large Chamber, but we have not yet given the mandate of the large Chamber, has certainly been wrong. I believe that, as a result of today's debate, we will also be able to give these general principles to the executive and the Estonian state, on which basis the Estonian state should shape its position. The current positions have also been very gentle and incomprehensible to the government. But my question is about the CO2 system. The initiators have proposed that it be redesigned. It is now, we know, administrative and speculative, and it does not work absolutely. But the initiators have a proposal to replace the system with a so-called harmonised Community tax on pollution, which some have started to treat as a CO2 tax for the European Union. Explain whether such a suspicion or assessment is correct or incorrect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U42	Thank you. Well, the real question is that, in principle, it is possible to discuss that Member States can, if they have a desire and have a duty to achieve a faster reduction in emission intensity, set it higher within their own countries. It would rather be the same as the minimum excise duties fixed in the European Union. This means that the minimum fuel excise duty has been fixed and that countries have to take this minimum in the CO2 trade. In principle, it is also conceivable to have a system in which countries wishing to reduce emissions trade more intensively within their countries can raise this [minimum]. But it is important that today's situation is absolutely indeterminate when a European substantive tax is in place, and it is still intended to be extended extensively to essentially most of the space of human activity when we are talking about transport when we are talking about housing. And then in a situation where this tax rate, the effective tax rate, is a tax, no matter how you call this unit of trade, it turns out that there may be one price in the morning and another price in the evening, and on such a speculative basis, this system has undoubtedly become a cartoon. Previous European Commission assessments showed some predictability. It was said that, in a ten-year perspective, from the level of 20 euros we had, from the level of 16 euros here a few years ago, when they were introduced, they could start moving to the level of 30 euros. That's not true. We are now, we are talking about the target, there were 90 in the week before, some of the last days it has fallen a little bit. It is extremely difficult to determine what inputs and what commercial considerations are involved when buying them or selling these units on the market. Speculation has been heard, which is also said internationally in the diplomatic circuit, and I do not have information about its compatibility with the truth that, in the winter, even before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, in order to create and actually amplify the energy crisis in the European Union, through Cyprus Russian companies, it has been open to all, and it has been speculatively buying these CO2 units together in order to amplify the energy crisis in Europe and thereby deter Europe. Once again, I stress that this is a legend that is moving around, but basically leaving this system aside whether it was true in practice or not, I cannot use this source information as a price weapon through the economic activity of European companies, a country hostile to European consumers. This is not excluded as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U43	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! We are not discussing this issue for the first time here. And it all depends on the environment what this broader background is. I remember when the topic was in this debate under the leadership of the ELAK, there was a representative from the Commission's office, and when I asked if the latte, so to speak, wasn't so high that we couldn't even get over it with a pole and just run through it here in Europe, I was told that no, it was important to set high targets and if Europe set itself high targets, then everyone will run along. But now I see that the problem is that Europe itself, too, is retreating from these objectives. Now coal heating makes sense, the nuclear plants that were decided to close, now [their activities] are being extended, the gas of the aggressor, which has been declared green in the meantime, is now not green. And what you referred to, which took place on 24 February, not here in Toompea, but in Ukraine, when the war began, what has been done to the climate there during that time, cannot be compared to anything. Maybe you'll comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U45	But I think it's rational. In this logic, you have to act rationally and it would be insane to move forward in the context of so-called ideological slogans, figuratively speaking, in a real war situation. We must ensure some sort of security of supply on the European continent, and in this context decisions must be taken. In this sense, I very much welcome the decision of the German Greens to be understanding nuclear energy in delaying this goal, in the use of nuclear energy and in the supply of other non-renewable energy sources, otherwise we would be on our knees before the Russian aggressor. And this is, in my view, a very important separate element, which is missing in this whole report, means 'Objective 55', which is why it must necessarily be analysed. That's actually what we call it, the context of the energy war. The context of the energy war, where these goals must be set. The primary task is undoubtedly to realise all ecological goals, but our primary task is to ensure energy security. And in this context, there is no way to compromise here at the moment. We must build on this, and we ourselves actually politically support the introduction of a full Russian gas embargo by the whole of the European Union, by the Western countries. This must be done, but it means that then we will simply have to rely on uncontrolled energy sources in their pure form. To say that we are building offshore wind farms in a ten-year perspective is, of course, not realistic in this logic. Offshore wind farms in an environment of economic competition can and can be built, they are certainly commercially and ecologically important projects, but we must also have managed capacities. Well, we are talking about three or four sectors in the Estonian economy, which are most vulnerable to Russian gas. There are concrete projects here on how to switch from gas to oil quickly. We certainly need to transfer oil shale oil to boilers here; it is certainly important that we use biomethane in production. And, of course, it is a matter of gas from outside Russia. Do we have a decision to make immediately on the LNG terminal? I believe that the first step is that since the construction of the LNG terminal, the construction of a stationary terminal, takes several years, we need to get the LNG tanker that we would have, just as Lithuania has acquired it. This LNG tanker currently costs EUR 300 million on the basis of the forecast available to me. We also have a chance to take rentals. Renting would cost us EUR 50 million a year at current prices. These practical decisions must be made. However, in the case of the acquisition of this ship, too, we need to understand that it will be this year's term, by the end of the year, [depending on] how the dynamics of events evolve. In the current situation, it is good news that the Inčukalns gas reserve has been filled by 30%. Compared to previous years, when it started to be completed in May, the collection of the gas reserve began with a foresight in January. This means to us that, if Russian gas were to close, we would probably have to reduce consumption volumes, especially in the industrial sector, but it is possible to provide heating to domestic consumers on the basis of these Inčukalns reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U46	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U47	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The last few weeks have changed the world's climate perceptions very clearly. How do you feel now? Estonia has its oil shale reserves for 50, 60, 70 years. Should today, very clearly, keep their power plants running and repair those furnaces that need repair, and the furnaces that they want to shut down in December next year, still be repaired? And another thing, you were talking about the LNG tanker today. It's practically a week to decide today. Then Alexela is ready to deliver LNG through the Balticconnector tube from Finland to Estonia. They say this construction takes about four months. We know that 100,000 families are gas-fired today. How do you feel about whether today's government will even think about it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U48	Well, I can't answer that I don't think because it's fair to say that it's actually the representatives of the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do not have any information on the progress of specific negotiations with a particular trader. However, I would certainly like to encourage the government, in this chair, to take all steps to ensure, as soon as possible, the autonomy of Russian gas. And, of course, this is not just a matter of our autonomy. Our interest must also be to realise this autonomy on a pan-European basis, and therefore the question must be put on the table not on this issue, with all due respect, whether Nord Stream 2 will ever be completed or not, but on Nord Stream 1 must be turned off from the network. There can be no other way around. We must understand that we are at war, in a comprehensive war. One thing is the kinetic conflict that takes place between Russia and its vassal and Ukraine, but the other is that the war in all other forms of expression is going on between the whole of the West, including us, and Russia. In this war, of course, firepower also costs, that is, energetic firepower. Our energy autonomy is now of vital importance. And, of course, as I said, we cannot build renewable energy on new projects from a decade perspective. We need to achieve this as energy-controlled electrical systems without delay. And the good questioner's reference to oil shale energy is, of course, indispensable to logic here. There's something else we need to understand. In this situation, when we are also talking about the electricity system in the European Union, in sudden critical situations, in energy deficit situations, of course, there is no question of how countries have [their] production capacities. If there is a choice between supplying electricity to your country's market or giving electricity to your neighbours, the reality is that, although it is not in line with their stock exchange rules and rules in this logic, that countries naturally make decisions to meet their minimum consumption burden in such a way that the wires close. Therefore, today's situation, which has developed over some years, is that we are, in terms of net electricity activity, a consumer and not a net producer of electricity trade within the territory of the Estonian state. The current situation forces us to respond unambiguously not only to everything else, to price and power generation capabilities in our region, but also to the fact that it is a matter of our immediate and vital military security in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U49	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you, too, for a good report. The war initiated by Aggressor has, in the light of energy carriers, actually put the whole of its climate package 55 in a completely new position. I am also trying to understand, in the Commission, I have studied this a little bit, so how is it that if Europe buys EUR 600 million of fossil energy from an aggressor and wants to end it, but there is no plan for it, it is said that we will not be able to do it immediately, perhaps in seven years' time. My question is, how seriously, then, in Europe's interaction has meant this climate package. Has it been such a nice to have, or has it been a very serious intention? If we have not assessed such a fundamental area in the context of impacts, everything else raises even more questions. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U51	Yeah, it was now in 2020... Sorry, was it not at the Council in December 2020 when this new ambition was brought down? Then, in fact, it was undoubtedly a political intention, a political intention that the European Union's so-called government or the European Commission had to realise with a legislative initiative. It also seems to me that there is much more policy and an idea-based objective than an economic ratio in this intention. This is also undoubtedly the reason why, as I said, neither by specific drafts nor by country, an impact analysis, where the European Union's total capacity for bureaucracy is capable of analysing and evaluating details even at the level of a separate scientific discipline, is not in a form that can be assessed by countries in a so-called arithmetical way. It doesn't exist. Let's see what happened in Versailles. In Versailles', of course, the first response had to be given to the Ukrainian people's request to immediately close [the raw material business with Russia]. We saw President Stefanchuk of the Verna Rada say that action must be taken; the West must stop trading raw materials with Russia. 50% of Russia's current budget is made up of the commodity business, and it functions in reality in the same order of magnitude of commodity business. Now, in the case of this commodity business, this response in the conclusions of the European Council, to get into this Versailles communiqué, was that we set a target for this by 2027. Of course, the war is in real time, people die in real time, it's a matter of hours, it's a matter of days. To say here that the embargo will be imposed by 2027 is not a serious rhetoric of course. We must have the readiness to close completely the energy trade with Russia. It has, of course, very strong implications, we must be prepared for this, and that means that these consequences must be compensated immediately by the whole of the European Union. These consequences can be two-way. One is, of course, the rapid realisation of renewable energy targets, but the other is the introduction of other sources of energy and energy, including, as I said, nuclear power plants or others. If there is a choice between being or not being, then it is necessary to choose between it in this crisis. The most important thing in the interests of security is to ensure security of supply; there is no alternative to security of supply in the current situation; all of these decisions must be subordinated to it. Of course, it is reasonable that the whole climate package needs a separate energy security resolution from the Russian war on aggression against Ukraine. In fact, in this light, it is necessary to assess as a whole what needs to be done more quickly, which is not realistic at all in the current situation, because it worsens the need for energy security. One thing is the energy supply of our own people and of our own country and companies, the other is, of course, that we are one of the Member States of the European Union, we must also look at the European Union as a whole, where this security of supply must come from across the whole of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U52	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U53	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! The Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry Regulation aims to set Estonia at a rate of almost four times that of carbon sequestration compared to today. At the same time, Finland, with similar forestedness, is even reduced. For the poorest countries, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, there is no obligation to establish a new forest. What do you think it really means? Or is that fair? What is this approach about?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U54	Thank you. Of course it's a joke. This is one of the things where, in a very hesitant way, when moving on one foot, there is also a mistrust expressed in the position of the government about it. But the paradigm is wrong. Why is he wrong? We say that we have too much of a burden that we have to ensure about this afforestation, and you see, others are too small or not at all. Then I think that we should still debate as a whole, look at the intensity of the total emissions per country. Well, a 1990 target device has been agreed on Europe-wide. It's right or not, it's arbiter, as usual, but it's been agreed. Fine! It's 1990. Here is the logic that our statement makes, that it is up to the states to assess who fulfils who does not. This whole logic of LULUCF is wrong in the sense that the government says that we can, like, beat the manor house, figuratively speaking, it's too strong a skin. But we say, sorry, there's nothing in this manor house. We do not need this LULUCF mandatory objective by that logic. If we do 55% of our own, as we do 72% of the good news, then actually we set the rules ourselves. Countries wishing to impose these requirements in order to achieve their "Objective 55" realization of the force! In principle, this statement also states that we can trade between countries. If we have a higher level, we can also change it between countries, so to speak, in the logic of accounting units, but it is undoubtedly a category that can be expressed financially and economically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U55	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U56	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Well, this statement on Estonia's national interests in the 55 negotiations on the climate package was made when there was not yet a real Ukrainian war. But we quietly noted these security threats, this crisis, already at the time. Our government, as it is, has now answered that it is nothing. The question is that the government still sees that these objectives are good, such flower-childlike behaviour, that there is no war, because there is no conflict on the territory of Estonia, there is no active contact. My question is: will it first arrive at the European Commission that we are now in a major energy crisis or for our government? Which is more likely? It will be voted down because it is not acute today because there is no war in Estonia today and we can heighten these green targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U57	Thank you. Let's just say that, if we asked whether this statement would be different with regard to the war in Ukraine, I think we would certainly have stressed the need for this European Union resolution on the war against Ukraine to be exceptional in relation to the climate package [to be included]. We would certainly have highlighted this need for more acute energy security here in isolation and called for this assessment by the Commission as well. However, by its very nature, this crisis has not changed the substance of this statement. This statement does not dispute here the fact that renewable energy is being developed, that energy autonomy is also being sought through renewable energy. There is no question about this statement. This statement says in a passionate and rational way what the most sensible way to achieve this is in the Estonian view. There are different perspectives: the ecological perspective, the perspective of different countries, the perspective of different sectors. But the main weakness of the government's positions is that the Estonian perspective on problems has been forgotten. And it's a mistake to think. This is a symptomatic error of thinking when dealing with certain problems. But now the tolerance of this misthink is very disastrous. This is the message that we want to highlight in this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U58	Good waitress, thank you! Now it's just that the questions have run out. Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the draft procedure in the Committee on the Environment. We had a meeting on 14 March and all members of the Commission were present, with the exception of Mr Ossinovski. As a representative of the initiators, we had Urmas Reinsalu, Green Policy Coordinator from the State Chancellery Kristi Klaas, Adviser to the European Union's Political Service from the Ministry of Finance Mari Lahtmets and Specialist from the Tax and Customs Policy Department Velda Buldas, Deputy Chancellor Marku Lamp from the Ministry of the Environment, Head of the Climate Department Kädi Ristkok, Advisers Laura Remmelgas and Mart Kiis, Head of the Forest Department Meelis Seedre and Permanent Representation of the Republic of Estonia to the European Union, Environmental Advisers Jörgen Talkop and Janika Laht. In short, the whole protocol isn't going to read to you. First, a representative of the initiators made an introduction that was much like the introduction you just heard in this Chamber. Then the discussion and the questions and comments of the members of the Riigikogu. I have examined from the representative of the initiators whether this practice has been implemented in Parliament in the past, where some groups of parliaments have, since the initiators have concentrated on the parliamentary group, tried to reformulate the decision adopted by the Riigikogu. I also examined whether it would really be in Estonia's interest to postpone the green turn. The representative of the initiators replied that members of the Riigikogu really have the mandate to take such initiatives, and he also spoke at length about involving interest groups. Peeter Ernits, who is a member of the Commission, as well as among the initiators, considered that the procedure was too rapid in the Committee on the Environment, which, in addition to the Committee on Economic Affairs, presented its views on this package to the Committee on European Union Affairs. Timo Suslov gave us an overview of how the whole process of developing the climate package's positions [was] taking place. In fact, if I recall now, it started about, I would say, six months ago, already at that time we were involved both on the side of the Committee on the Environment and in ELAK, before the views were formed at all. In this sense, this debate has been very long and, unfortunately, it seems to me, on the basis of today's debate, that many still remain confused, which this climate package still contains quite precisely. It is natural, of course, that today's debate has completely changed in circumstances and the focus will go a lot there. Following Timo Suslov's review, Heiki Kranich felt that many of the proposals contained in the draft had already been incorporated into the government's positions. That is true of some, of course there is a great contradiction with some. Then Green Policy Leader Kristi Klaas commented in the context of the war initiated by Russia on the view of the State Chancellery in the context of negotiations on the climate package. Last week, a summit of Heads of State and Government of the European Union took place in Versailles, where both the war and the green turn were discussed. There was, of course, a debate on how to uncouple Europe from Russian energy sources, and in May the European Union's long-term energy plan and food security will be discussed. Of course, these two issues are where we have to make urgent decisions. In addition, Kristi Klaas pointed out that the speeches made by the Heads of State would give a great deal of attention to the issue of energy efficiency. In addition, of course, increasing the capacity to develop renewable energy. And a little Kristi Glass talked about these impact assessments. At EU level, impact assessments have been carried out on the European Union for the last five to seven years. The impact assessment of the emissions trading system was commissioned before the climate package was completed and, in addition, the Ministry of the Environment has commissioned an update on the assessment that should come in April. The LULUCF sector impact assessment was completed last year. Estonia will, of course, also be affected by the Effort Sharing Regulation and each Member State will be able to choose the appropriate measures to achieve its objectives. More specifically, there were also proposals in the maritime sector. The officials confirmed that these sector comments have been of great help and have also been taken into account in the government's positions. Let's keep looking. Then we had comments from the Treasury Department. Again, much was said about how the effects have been assessed, as well as about the border measure, where data were collected from different companies, which problems could arise. In fact, it was found that the volume of goods is relatively small in terms of imports and exports. The most important article is fertilisers, which, again, is important in the context of the war, as 60% of the fertilisers used in Estonia have been imported from Russia. Solutions must be found here so that the Estonian food sector should not depend on the fertilisers imported from Russia. Perhaps, in fact, this also indicates that the war is accelerating the herbal cord considerably. It also analysed what price increases could be like. More was said about the emissions trading system. It was pointed out that the different northern and eastern and southern European countries have slightly different positions. The officials of the Estonian Mission of the European Union explained that Estonia is in a group that wants to make certain changes to the emissions trading system. Kädi Ristkok of the Ministry of the Environment communicated to us the views of the Ministry of the Environment regarding this draft. First of all, it was the principle that Urmas Reinsalu spoke of here at the end of his presentation. If he found that if we have met the targets in one sector, then we should not look at the other sectors at all, then in fact, the opposite is true: in the climate package, it is really important that changes are still taking place in all sectors. Kädi Ristkok also pointed out that the draft contains a number of proposals that do not match the positions of the national climate package and that the Ministry of the Environment does not support the draft in this form. What else can we get out of here? Kristi Klaas gave an overview of where it will be [the plan], there was also a lot of talk about the plan of Estonia, how we ourselves will carry out our own greening. It is in these days that an action plan for the Estonian green turn is under way, which, I believe, we will soon hear in this Chamber too. A bit of an extension was taken in connection with the military situation, but, as far as I know, the first version was introduced yesterday. The Centre for Monitoring for Development has also discussed how these impact assessments will take place on this particular plan of ours. Then, as chairman of the committee, I pointed out that, despite the initiator's discussion of the parliamentary group's cooperation with stakeholders, the Commission actually dealt with this draft for a long time, but we have not received any requests to present our views, no letters, no referrals. Of course, we communicated with stakeholders during the procedure in order to obtain views, but we have not now been approached in this particular draft. Then decisions were made. My assessment was that the Committee on the Environment could not really support this draft, because it is in no way in Estonia's interest to postpone the green turn, and it was therefore decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary and to hold a final vote on 21 March. Peter Ernits and Andres Metsoja, who are among the initiators, were opposed by others. A speaker was appointed as the representative of the commission. And then we approved the first-reading text, which required some linguistic clarifications compared to the original version. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U60	Good waitress, thank you! These are questions for you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U61	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I happen to be a member of ELAK too, and the debate on this topic was quite serious. The arguments were up and, in principle, voting for it didn't work out very easily, but in the end it did. You referred in your report to the fact that an impact analysis has been prepared here by various sectors, but in fact the problem at ELAK was that there was no comprehensive impact analysis that would give a final result for all sectors. Siim Kallas said it wasn't there. Please tell me what this comprehensive impact analysis is to give a comprehensive picture of the achievement of the objectives of this climate package. Who has prepared it, and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U62	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is true that the officials have pointed out that, since this is a package in the negotiations, it is obviously not possible to assess the final impact. And certain things are still, maybe I would also make a comparison or make a counter-question and claim that, in fact, we know that the more we postpone these decisions, the more expensive it gets to society. Every day is actually at a high price, the longer we discuss here, back and forth. It's time to take action. But indeed, the final [assessment] that can predict all of this is not the case, of course, because the final formulation is being negotiated by the countries. What we confirmed in the negotiations were the positions of the Estonian state, the interests of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U63	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U64	Thank you, Mr President. As the rapporteur put forward a counter-question, I would like to say a few words about it in this context, and also in a procedural way. In fact, we cannot negotiate such an issue if we do not know its comprehensive outcome for our economy in the very long term. That would be all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U65	I can answer...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U66	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U67	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The European Union has included biomass among its green energy sources. Now, in a situation where oil shale is essentially replaced by wood in Estonian power plants, this means that there will also be increased logging pressure on Estonian forests, which is already large and is already growing. In this context, the government's views on LULUCF have also been precisely those that would allow for the greatest possible logging. As Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, how do you feel about a situation where, in fact, under the green turn sign and as a result of the green turn, Estonian nature will be more destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U68	Thank you for your question. This is really a very difficult question, and I think that in that sense you were not quite correct, that the positions of the government certainly do not want as much cutting as possible. This is not quite correct; this is not the position of the government. Now, with regard to the use of biomass, woody biomass in the large power plants of Eesti Energia Narva, it is indeed not a sustainable plan. That is, of course, my personal position, which we did not really discuss at this particular committee meeting. As far as biomass, wood chips, is concerned, it certainly makes sense in terms of climate in local cogeneration plants, district heating plants. But in the big Narva platter, this is not a long-term sustainable solution. Estonia needs a better plan. Indeed, I agree. But really we did not discuss it in the Commission, that was not the Commission's position at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U69	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U70	Thank you very much. Good waitress! This "Objective 55" has received extremely strong criticism from stakeholders. The Chamber of Agriculture has expressed the view that the assessment of cumulative effects is currently absolutely impossible, and the regulation of shared efforts is incomprehensible. The district heating and power plant association has said that the tax directive and the taxation of biofuels contained in it are problematic. However, you said that Estonia is affected by the Effort Sharing Regulation just as positively. Please now bring out this positive assessment of how it can influence positively.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U71	Thank you. Interesting question. I did not think the word 'positive' was used, I simply explained that such a principle was set out in the climate package. However, if I may say, we did not discuss it again in the Commission, but it is very difficult for me to give up my comments, because I really care about the subject. I think, for example, that the fact that we need to heat our houses better in Estonia, that we need to build more sustainable buildings, we need to build better-heated, more reasonable buildings, for example, that we need to develop public transport, that we also need to create opportunities for cycling, by train, by bus, by tram, these are all things that are deeply in Estonia's interest. They increase our well-being. That is the question, and that is what the climate package is really about.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U72	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U73	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I am still interested in the subject of the forestry sector, which has already been started here. Firstly, the problem is, as explained to us in ELAK, that up to a third of jobs in the forestry sector could be lost on the basis of current targets. Think about what is now in the Estonian village anyway: there is a shortage of jobs, people go to the city or Finland. And if there's gonna be a 20-thousand-dollar bang, that's funny. Everyone moves to Central Finland, Suur-Helsinki, Stockholm or Viimsi. And then there are the heroes. Did the Commission mention what this contraction of the forestry sector means? And what's your own feeling about this? Wouldn't it, in contrast, damage the ability to live and live in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U74	Thank you for your question. Again, during the procedure for this draft, this issue was not really under discussion. I understand and it is very nice that this topic is of interest, and I think that actually we need these discussions here in essence, it is a pity that this bill does not actually contain all these things. But with regard to the forestry sector and these jobs there... It's my personal observation again, but since you asked me what it was like. I don't want to waste your time and maybe I should talk more about the Commission, but then we'll talk about it. In fact, employment in this sector has also changed a great deal. If we look at profits, look at turnover and look at the number of people employed, there will also be a rapid automation process in this sector. It's all positive. We would also like, above all, to ensure that the quality of the wood material that we can extract from the forest is as high as possible, with as little as possible going into the burn. That's the last thing, all right? It's good for the economy, it's good for the climate. I think these objectives are very common. As far as the positions with which the government actually went are concerned, my personal view is that they were still more of a view in favour of the forest industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U75	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U76	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! As regards border trade, I ask how this debate took place in the Commission. If we look at them, we call them directly that way, the aim of which is to protect the European Union market on the one hand, but also to force third countries to apply different methods of reducing CO2 carbon. I expressed doubts about Russia, China, Belarus and other similar countries and their accuracy in the ELAK and also in this Chamber. If you have now discussed in the Commission, how did it seem to you whether countries such as Russia and Belarus can be trusted, whether they are really the right data and if they would help us to obtain fair border trade? And how can they avoid a trade war, especially with China in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U77	Thank you. To some extent we did indeed touch on this, in the context that Russia and Belarus, in particular Russia, have gone to war. We have sanctions. It is clear that we cannot trust this country. This means that they are also isolated in economic terms. In that sense, we have to manage on our own.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U78	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U79	Good manager! Dear waitress, Last week, we were made clear from wood and red how most of our drafts that we are adopting have not been analysed in terms of how they are compatible with the Constitution. And now I'm asking. Jüri Raidla has said that the herbs in the form that the European Commission has put forward are not in line with our national interests or with the Constitution. And I'd like you to say in the big hall now that Jüri Raidla is talking nonsense that he doesn't understand. On both occasions, when the Commission has discussed this, I have only voted against it. I understand, but now explain to everyone that Jüri Raidla doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U80	Thank you, good questioner! Unfortunately, I have not been familiar with this opinion of Jüri Raidla, so I really cannot comment on it. However, I can confirm here again what was, of course, also touched on in the committee sitting: it is certainly in the interests of every Estonian person that we are part of the green turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U81	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Yeah, well, voting against something will happen someday, but the real question today is more about where we're going and what are the tools to save this planet. In your presentation, you said, you suggested that we keep up the pace and move forward on this subject, and therefore not go ahead with the subject of this statement in this Chamber. At the same time, I ask. Shouldn't the European Commission take a little break, a thought break now? We're in a whole new situation compared to July 14th, 2021, when it came out. I understand that if we do not want to dismantle everything to what is so-called the foundations, then at least this energy policy should be taken apart, and here, too, we should ask for national opinions again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U83	Thank you. I think we are certainly not in a situation where we should take time off and stop dealing with these issues. I think that this need [to continue] is greater than ever. As far as energy is concerned, as I mentioned, Kristi Klaas pointed out that the Russian energy withdrawal package has already begun and will be introduced in May. We also have a great job to do here, and I hope that this work will really be done quickly and decisively under the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was good to hear that the initiator of the Isamaa Group also made some comments on some possible solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U84	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U85	Thank you. Dear waitress, I got ears when you said we didn't have that broad-based analysis, and it couldn't be, we're negotiating. My question is, if we don't have this kind of analysis, do we know which way we're going to run or what we're going to negotiate? Maybe we'll run to the finish line, but we'll drop dead first. If we don't know where we're going, it's gonna be really hard to make a run like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U86	Thank you, good questioner! That's quite right. Indeed, the risk is that we'll fall down before we think too long. Climate warming is a real process. We are in a relatively good position in terms of climate in Estonia, but there are places in certain countries, in certain climatic areas, where this is indeed a matter of life and death. In this sense, you have to run faster, and this direction is still so that humanity can continue to live on this planet.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U87	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madame waitress! You mentioned here in this government a mature plan to abandon Russian energy carriers. All Tallink ships are known to travel with particularly favorable Russian gas. If we give up Russian gas now, Tallink's ships will probably stay by the docks or go somewhere to be scraped. But at the same time, of course, they serve the purpose of the green turn. Isn't there some sort of little contradiction between noble ideas and harsh reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U89	Thank you. I must of course admit that this particular issue was not once again addressed in the context of this draft. I don't know if I'm gonna do the right thing if I go down in those comments. But really, since I'm interested, I'll take that time. As far as I know, Tallink ships don't all drive Russian gas. As far as I know, they also have a very modern LNG ship. But this issue needs to be clarified. And as far as I know, 8% of Estonian gas is from a source that we urgently have to abandon.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U90	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. And now I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I ask for Merry Aarti, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, in the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U91	Three minutes extra just in case I can't make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U92	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, This heroir, sometimes called greenness, always produces a great deal of passion. And that is why I also asked if we have any analyses of what we're running from and where we're running from. "Objective 55" is a good and fair goal. It is very difficult for me to imagine that we are moving towards the goal set if we do not have any analyses to choose the path. Decisions based on emotions and beliefs can be disastrous. It's very difficult to mitigate risks if we don't know what the risks are. I wouldn't want to fall dead in front of it, behind you. For example, from the farm to the plate, which is directly linked to the "Fit 55." In this respect, the University of Cologne has carried out analyses and these analyses say that Europe will become a food producer. This means that food demand will increase, but food production will decrease. Food production is concentrated or may be concentrated in third countries. These third countries pollute the world more than they have so far, but they take advantage or profit of how to say it. Who's the winner here? We do not have a comprehensive analysis, not in Europe as a whole, yet less per Member State. Let's take the emissions. Compared to the 1990s, agriculture is declining by around 45%. It's like we're really good, and there's not much to get to. When we were given the reference year 2005, 2004 we joined the European Union and then agriculture started to thrive, so emissions increased if we wanted to be very good at all costs and save the world, should we reduce our food production or find other solutions? Do we have any idea how? No, it's not. Let's take LULUCF. If by 2031 there will be a common sector comprising both forest and field, and climate neutrality will be achieved by 2035 what are we talking about here? One sector issues, the other sector neutralizes. What's the balance? Hypothetically, we can say that if we give up food production, we will achieve climate neutrality. Can we? I say I can't, I don't believe it. Or we could take the fields. The carbon sequestration of soils is not infinite. Alar Astover of the University of Earth has said that one third of the soil is bound, one third of the soil is neutral and one third is not bound at all. Soil is not an endless binding agent. There are a number of important issues related to the future of soil. Do we know who defends Estonia's views on soil in Brussels or who is responsible for this topic in Estonia? Again, the issue goes back and forth between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and in the end, nobody is responsible or we push responsibility into infinity. Draft Riigikogu statement 526 is a step in the right direction. In all subjects and areas we may not have quite one hundred percent, but in any case this means that we are moving in the right direction. We need analysis, we need to know which way we are running, what we are doing, what the risks are, what the risks are for our people, our workforce, our rural areas, our food production. Then we know where the risks are and how we mitigate them. Our party supports this and wants to move on with these things. I suggest you think very seriously about this: before we start running, let us figure out where we want to go and how we want to get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U94	Thank you very much. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who cares about this planet, the climate, public health, the quality of food, and even existence on this earth! You know, I have also been in Parliament for some time, and a lot of different directives have been discussed here, handled in advance and backwards, in both good and bad, but I have never heard of a law such as the law on sustainable development adopted in Estonia in 1995 in the various parts of our legal space. Even then, sustainable development was thought of and it was foreseen that sustainable development should be taken into account at all stages of legislation. Andres Tarand was a fiery leader in this field at the time, but it was also thought that, well, sometime later, he would arrive. It seems that today, at national level, we have still come to this situation, that if we want to discuss this issue in this House, we will say: let us not hinder the process, let this process go on, let us not be in the way. I find that strange. It should be said that, in fact, the European Commission has come up with this initiative and published this package 55 already on 14 July 2021. When we think about it, it wasn't a long time ago. In the meantime, different meetings have taken place, and I have also been a participant in the UN Climate Change [Conference] COP26 Committee on the Environment, for example. In fact, I think very well that Pope Francis of Rome summed up this whole climate change package. He said very clearly: good politicians, it is not a question of faith. It's not a question of faith! There's scientific opinion down here, very clear research, and faith doesn't get very far. A very clear agenda is needed here, a plan must be credible, it must be viable and it must be economically imputable to the whole of society. Now that we have discussed this issue both in the committees and in this Chamber, we really do find ourselves in such a perplexity that, to a large extent, it has still been a document built on political slogans, and if we start to relate them to countries or to implement certain changes, the answers often come to see that it is not possible to assess all these effects. Unfortunately, when we talk about science and the principles of science to transfer them to society as politicians we are these tools in this hall, I do not think we can in any way [say] that if there is a scientific starting point, the effects cannot be estimated. This does not make sense for our municipalities, which have to link these changes at grassroots level, it is not understandable for businesses either, and in the end, the citizen must pay for all this with some additional change in prices, in the consumption chain, which must also be acceptable. If we cannot anticipate this time series in the state budget or anticipate the consumer's wallet, then we can clearly say that climate change has failed and has become rather a great frustration and often... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U96	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U97	...the politicians who brought in a bad plan brought about a bad plan that couldn't be implemented. In this situation, however, I cannot fail to emphasise Russia's aggression in Ukraine and the entire energy crisis, all the issues of emissions trade, which also had to be built from a knowledge-based basis by the European Commission. When it was agreed that it would be reasonable to bring about this change in the economic environment on a carbon quota, when we talk about 25 euros per tonne, right, and in the end it was 90 and 100, everyone will discuss that this really has failed. But we haven't heard much about why he's failed. Where's the problem? Why'd that happen? Actually, they wanted to do better. And now they say it needs to be re-examined. But I'm sorry, it needs to be revised, but I think that both the politicians of the Fatherland and myself are saying that if we start to rethink it, we'd like to see the relationship between cause and effect and how we're going to rethink it, what this new model might be. Or the same thing that we have pointed out as one of the great goals of the planet, nature, has been very unfair to this human behavior, which has meant endless consumption of fossil fuels. And when we get to the point that we should stop supporting Russia's aggression in Ukraine, the EUR 600 million for which we buy energy from Russia every day, we will actually get to the next wave of hopping and say, "Hey, this is not an emergency." But indeed, if that is not possible, then we must come together and discuss it. This is now more of a security issue, as Urmas Reinsalu emphasised here, that political ambition to combat climate change is actually coming together somewhere, and there is a need to look at the security issue together, and there is nothing to be done. We did not imagine very well before 24 February, where we are today, and we cannot deny these political initiatives that have arisen in this situation, but we must transfer them to this document. So I'd definitely encourage you to keep running on that marathon track. But in the meantime, there cannot be such an order that, when it was said at the beginning that there were five catering points on the track, it is finally said that unfortunately there are none. Then there is a very serious opportunity not to stop it [run]. And as always in one of the right marathons, it's only going to be hard at 35 kilometers. It seems to me that we still have a long way to go there, the goal is not to run in any way, I think someone quits, everyone would like to reach the end of victory and feel the feeling that we have taken a big step forward together. But today it seems to me that the goal is to run at all costs, let the result come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U98	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party Group has authorised Raimond Kaljulaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U99	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable fellows! Indeed, the Social Democrats discussed this statement and its content this morning. It is undoubtedly possible to agree with the initiators that "Objective 55" has a wide-ranging impact on the Estonian economy, Estonian society. I also congratulate the initiators for the fact that this is indeed a very large and technically complex package of drafts and measures, which is a very nuanced issue. It is undoubtedly commendable to make this clear to ourselves and to shape our positions, and the inclusion of pensioners' associations is certainly appropriate to respect grey heads and, as they say, to worship spending heads on this issue as well. Although Estonia has shaped its initial views on the 'Objective 55' proposals, we have not made final decisions, and I consider it important to emphasise this. They are being negotiated and we still have time to shape Estonia's final positions on the basis of what the outcome of the negotiations will be. I stress once again that climate policy objectives, both for the longer term and for 2030, have been agreed at European Union level. And indeed, from the Estonian side, these goals were confirmed at a time when the initiators of this draft were in the government, and I acknowledge that you feel this responsibility and continue to participate in this process of implementation. Now, the negative effects that have been discussed here cannot be denied; they exist for a number of economic sectors; they are not limited to the production of oil shale electricity from Ida-Viru County. But on the other hand, which must also be emphasised and acknowledged, there are also positive effects: new jobs in renewable energy, a more favourable electricity price for the final consumer, when we have created enough renewable energy capacity and built these capacities, and, of course, a positive impact on energy security through the fact that we ourselves have the necessary capacity. What else can be accepted in the text of the initiators is certainly an issue of impact analyses. This was also pointed out by the Social Democrats during the proceedings of the Commission on European Union Affairs. The issue of impact assessments is important; their absence is a problem. And I would also like to say personally that, of course, it is important for such large processes to ask critical questions, it is important to have a debate. It is certainly not the case that all those who, on one point or another, may not agree with the proposals that have been made today are somehow backwards and wish to reverse time. Here it is important to understand that, at this moment, where the general objectives are in place, we are talking about how to achieve them, and in this process, each country defends its own interests and Estonia must defend its own interests. Dear friends, we do not represent Brussels here in Estonia, but we still represent Estonia in Brussels. I would now also briefly comment on the controversy that we have met the objectives. I am surprised, of course, that from this point of view, the initiators have not proposed to increase emissions in Estonia, as if there were room for this, according to your calculations. I don't know, launch a national program to buy cars with even more engine power or something like that. But funny. I think that Estonia will win from the transition to a cleaner economy, cleaner energy, greater respect for the values of nature conservation, and the people of Estonia will expect this. Now, your opposition to the Social Fund. I would say that whether we are in favour of it or against it is not a very important issue. Through the Social Fund... If I may ask for more time...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U100	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U101	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U102	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U103	Thank you. According to current forecasts, the Estonian Social Fund would receive a green turn of 26 million euros per year to level out the social impacts of the circa. If you think, for example, in this energy crisis, it was considered necessary to compensate for high energy prices for half of households, in the order of 300000 households whose incomes are below the median, that is, 26 million per year, seven euros per month per household. Six hybrid cars or electric cars, I think, for this seven euros, cannot be bought by these households anyway. Whether or not this Social Fund comes or does not come, I think it is actually not even such a principle question until its volume is what it is. And, of course, which is completely missing from the text of the statement, regrettably completely missing, is that the green turn actually brings with it new opportunities that Estonia should strive to make full use of. New technologies, including energy storage, I think, are the process in which we could take our economy to a whole new level, just as we have done in the field of information technology. Who would have believed it at the end of the 1990s, looking at the state we came from in the early 90s after regaining independence, in what situation was the Estonian economy then and where are we today? We have a number of recognised, large, very successful, internationally successful companies in this area, why not also in the energy of the future. The demand for new technologies in the field of energy is very high and Estonia could also benefit from it. In my opinion, a little bit of attention has been paid to this by the initiators of the application. But now I come specifically to this statement. The question for us is whether it is necessary. We also had our own proposals, which we made in the Committee on European Union Affairs in the framework of the 'Objective 55' draft procedure, we defended them in the Commission. Regrettably, a number of important points did not support us, which is why we did not really accept the positions of the Government of the Republic. Well, if it seems to the political groups of the initiators that their representatives have not done such good substantive work in the Committee on European Union Affairs, then it is up to each political group to decide for itself that representatives can also be exchanged in committees if it seems that their work is not good enough. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that it is probably not practical to get so detailed in the Riigikogu's plenary, in these different nuances at this level. The negotiations are ongoing. Our negotiators also need flexibility. Given that, in essence, we are divided on a number of points here and we question the need for this statement in this form, we do not support this initiative, but we undoubtedly recognise our fellow Members for raising this very important issue. And we wish them success in further work and other activities here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U104	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party, Tõnis Mölder, please! Oh, I'm sorry! You had a line before. I'm sorry! Two minutes is the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U105	Thank you for your word to Mr. Kaljulai. However, I must point out a number of fundamental questions. Firstly, yes, the applicants have a fundamental understanding that social policy is not within the competence of the European Union and its introduction through so-called environmental objectives, as well as the harmonisation of taxes, is in fact unjustified and misleading in the logic of the European Union's Treaties. Secondly, as far as the possibilities now are concerned, all of these opportunities will certainly be acknowledged by the fact that modern technologies and the benefits of their cultivation and development in societies are concerned. But I would like to draw attention to one thing: our understanding must give an answer; Parliament must give an answer to the family living in an apartment in Mustamägi, which will happen there. You have to answer what their goods are gonna cost in the store. You have to answer the price of a student's plane ticket. The real price and cost of passenger cars must be answered. The answer must be how Estonian companies can sell their goods to third countries internationally. And we don't have those answers. The comfort, the eloquent consolation, is that people will receive EUR 7 for these so-called additional burdens on consumers. Take it, buy cars, shop for seven euros and do it! In fact, we realize that this is ironic, if not more. We want answers to what this system means when it is fully implemented for consumers and businesses and for our entire socio-economic environment. And these answers do not mean that no one would say that the goals of a green turn are opposed as such. The question is, What is our ability and what is our just burden? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That was the whole point. But it seems to me that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U106	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U107	...you're afraid of these answers, and that's why they haven't come up on our tables so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U108	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U109	You can take my word, but there are no answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U110	Please! Don't take the word off, you just have to fit in two minutes. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, environmental and climate issues are undoubtedly important, also important in such a difficult foreign policy period and in such a security situation. I think that the aim of all of us must be to provide solutions specifically to deal with climate change. In the middle of the past decade, under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the [agreement to establish] goal was specifically to control climate warming compared to the pre-industrial period, so that it would ideally be below 1.5 °C. The recent UN report analysed 191 countries' commitments to reduce emissions and found that the objective set in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change has not been met and will not be achieved in this form. Instead of reducing emissions, gas emissions are increasing. Perhaps the world is moving in the wrong direction in terms of environment and climate. The climate and energy package, published in mid-July, paves the way for the climate neutrality that the European Union wants to reach by 2050. But all this with a very specific interim target for 2030. The 55 package aims to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. I think it is important to set these milestones together in the European Union in order to understand whether the [direction] we have chosen or the path we are going to take is the right one. Let's look at the hero and the package from 55 points of view of the Estonian economy. Thoughts and views are spreading about how the sheaves are starting to damage our economy. That's not true. First of all, by making things smarter, we have the opportunity to use and win the green to revive our economy. Secondly, Estonia stands for the interests of its country in the negotiations. The green turn is coming anyway, the question is whether we want to be the locomotive for this green turn or the wagon that is being towed. [[The cavalry.]] In April 2017, the Estonian long-term climate policy development document "Climate policy fundamentals 2050" was approved in the Riigikogu, with the aim of reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 80% compared to 1990. The short target was to reduce these greenhouse gases by 70% by 2030. In 2020, total greenhouse gas emissions had already decreased by 72%, which means that Estonia is on the right track. It is important to defend our country's positions in the negotiations and to find partners from other Member States on matters that are important to us. To date, the Ministry of the Environment has commissioned a number of studies focusing specifically on our opportunities to meet the objectives of the new package and has also made initial assessments of its impact on the economy. The reduction in emissions cannot only come at the expense of the energy sector. All sectors must contribute. Estonia's view is that the overall objective of the package can be supported, but we consider it necessary to further analyse each objective and discuss its compatibility with the Member States individually. Coming to Estonia today, the Estonian car park is now one of the oldest and most polluting in Europe, thus ruining our environment on a daily basis. The average energy efficiency of our buildings is also low, which means that the heating costs of our homes are high. It is therefore certainly in our interest to develop more sustainable solutions in these sectors. By creating an additional emissions trading system for transport and buildings sectors, we are making money with the revenue from the sale of units, precisely to develop and modernise these sectors. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U112	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U113	Energy has been moving towards a green turn in Estonia for some time. This is evidenced by the growing share of our renewable energy, the forthcoming international wind farm projects, the large projects of the offshore wind farm, as well as the growing debate on hydrogen in recent years. But there are many ways to turn green. The more we can invent and market different solutions, the more we gain from it. We must not forget technological developments either. The development of technology in the oil shale sector is important. The oil shale is our wealth and pride. Giving up oil shale lightly cannot be an end in itself. Professor Alar Konist of Tallinn University of Technology has said in his letter this year: "In summary, we receive both energy from oil shale and the input component of cement. The remaining CO2 can be captured by carbon capture technologies before exiting the chimney and produced, for example, methanol or, if the application is not available, stored. This will make it possible to achieve almost zero or even negative CO2 emissions under certain conditions. [---] We appreciate what we have ourselves and use it in the most reasonable way. " Our common goal must be to enhance oil shale for as long as possible, but taking into account the climate goals we set. The 55 package is not really revolutionary by nature. Systems already in place will be strengthened and more mechanisms will be put in place to help protect the competitiveness of European industry in the world and to support households with lower incomes. There are important benefits for society, such as more energy-efficient homes that are cheaper to heat and cool, a cleaner environment, greener transport and a greener and stronger energy system. All sectors win. The new package 55 is our opportunity and a challenge to make our environment better and our economy even more efficient. The question is whether we want to be at the negotiating table and stand up for these positions or live with the slogans that sound in Estonian domestic politics and miss the right moment to stand up for ourselves. I would rather choose the first version where we stand for our country at the European table. Once again, I thank the initiators of the draft for this debate in this large Chamber, but our group does not support this draft statement by the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U114	Thank you very much. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week the Green Revolution Conference of the Estonian Employers' Confederation was held. President Alar Karis began by pointing out that now it is not either that we should ask, but that we should be able to carry out the herb more quickly. How can it be faster?! Three quarters of the entrepreneurs who were present, I believe that the Estonian vertices thought, were also surveyed on the spot, that the war is really speeding up the sheave. Unfortunately, the statement that is here today, as you can see, is rather trying to stall a bit more. We recall how Estonia made the digital revolution in the early 1990s. The key issue was that people, citizens, consumers, subscribers were with entrepreneurs and with the state. That's when the turn was made. We will, of course, continue with this. Similarly, today we are in a position where we know our values very precisely: we are [with] Ukraine. Our values are freedom, democracy, independence, including sustainability, sustainability. The President of the Republic, Alar Karis, said about wind farms: let them grind the mills of freedom. We can't wait here anymore. This decision has already been made by America and the United Kingdom when it comes to abandoning Russian gas; this decision is yet to be made in Estonia. We have made this decision, but previously we set a target of 2025. Let's hurry up. The LNG Paldiski ship was already mentioned here today by the initiators. Our own plan. That is what we really need. The entrepreneurs have already drawn up this plan in the form of an Eesti Energia roadmap under the auspices of Rohetigri. There was a lot of talk about impact assessment. Read the IPCC report, a new version just appeared. This will explain to you the effect that every day we stretch. And indeed, compared to the [what effect] is the daily amount we send to feed the Russian war machine, it is exactly the same as when we stretch the green turn. The experts in the Green Rotation of the Government of the Republic said with agreement yesterday exactly the same thing that the security crisis and war oblige us to speed up the shelve. And the head of the expert group stresses that any decision not made or postponed will cost us something. But indeed, there are many possibilities. Businesses also spoke a lot about this at the Green Reverse Conference and at the Energy Conference the following day. New level of economy, exports. Which companies are successful in exporting? Those who can adapt, redesign their supply chains, those who build on these same values. And there are a lot of them in Estonia. In 2005, the Reform Party formulated such a principle in its programme: "Environmentality is a moral principle that is not only detractable to the question of human well-being and natural resources. Mankind is responsible for ensuring the right of life of all nature and other species. " But all of this has relatively little to do with the bill that we have before us. Indeed, there is no way to support this. But nevertheless, I thank you for the good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U116	Thank you very much. Now the negotiations are over. There were no amendments to this draft, and we have a final vote today. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 526 and for this we will first make a call for halls. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft statement of the Riigikogu on the national interests of Estonia in the negotiations on the "Priority 55" climate package 526. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U117	There are 25 ambassadors in favour of the bill, 42 against the bill. The draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U118	Today's third item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the abolition of restrictions imposed on the Government of the Republic to prevent the proliferation of Covid-19" submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The draft shall pass a single reading and shall be adopted by a simple majority. I call Kert Kingo, a member of the Riigikogu, as a waitress. Please! But, Kert, before you start talking, Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U119	Thank you. How exactly do we have this vote? Or not with a vote, but with questions. One for each performer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U120	There are still two questions at first reading. It's OE, yeah. Here's how it's gonna be... I'm gonna read the whole thing. 20 minutes for the author of the bill, 20 minutes for the representative of the commission. Questions: Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Representatives of committees or political groups may take part in the negotiations. That's right. Yes, please, Kert!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party of Estonia presented a proposal to the Government of the Republic to immediately put an end to the restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a draft decision, on 7 February or a month and a half ago. At that time, the requirement for a COVID-19 certificate imposed by the government to pressure people to vaccinate, allowing only vaccinated or COVID sufferers to participate in the theatre, swimming pool, cafeteria, gym, skiing hill, or social life. People without proof of COVID didn't have the right to participate in social life. They've been shut down from society. They were blatantly and brutally discriminated against. The government divided society into two parts: fit and unfit. According to the Constitution, rights and freedoms must be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution and no one must be treated degradingly. There has been extensive violation by the executive authorities of constitutional fundamental principles in Estonia. The restrictions imposed by the Orders of the Government of the Republic on COVID-19 have been inherently illegal and have unduly violated fundamental rights. Under § 11 of the Constitution, rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. These restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the rights and freedoms that are restricted. The restrictions imposed by the government have erred against these constitutional principles. On 14 March, the Prime Minister wrote on social media that as soon as symptomatic COVID results in fewer than 25 people reaching hospitals, we will end the last control measures. As of 15 March, the requirement for a COVID certificate and the limitation of the closing time for entertainment establishments at 23:00 was waived. I would point out: the government used the word "loot" rather than canceled or invalidated the requirement imposed by its illegal order. What a liar! At the same time, a risk analysis remained in place, which continues to discriminate against a large number of people. Pressured to vaccinate, threatening to lose your job. The revaccination is allowed to continue. There was also an obligation to wear masks in public places to protect themselves and others. Obligation, which is also a control measure. Therefore, the last control measures, as the Prime Minister wrote in his post, were not terminated, but risk analysis and the obligation to mask and disperse were maintained. The latter are controlled by law enforcement and Health Board officials who impose fines for non-compliance with this obligation and, as time has shown, carry people to the police station using physical violence. The Prime Minister lied to his people again. What have our scientists said about the obligation to wear masks? On January 6, in Delfi, the head of the scientific council, Professor of Cell Biology, Toivo Maimets, said: "The mask is also an indicator of a certain attitude. " On 16 March this year at the ERR: "Little scientific evidence has clearly been found to prevent the spread of the virus. [---] It is reasonable to do as other countries have taken the restrictions down, but masks remain. " Today, on March 21, Toivo Maimets in the ERR said: "It is quite clear that masks do not help to reduce infection by 100%, reduce disease or reduce deaths. However, their effectiveness is in any case better than zero. " Thus, the head of the Scientific Advisory Board considers that the masking obligation is important in order to show your attitude to who or what you are going to do as other countries do. No scientific justification for the effectiveness of the mask. On 15 March this year, Professor of Virology Irja Lutsar announced in the ERR: "[He said] the scientific view that wearing surgical masks is not so effective: "The effectiveness of FFP2 masks is much higher: they should be carried by people who are particularly exposed to the risk. Clothes masks, however, have a visual effect. Each person should be able to decide where to wear the mask and choose a suitable mask. [---] Mask wearing must be made optional and, if worn, only FFP2 masks (Which efficiency is claimed to be much higher, but well, it is not known how much. "K.K.), because others are just facial decorations for omicron." " I would point out that Professor of Virology Irja Lutsar considers FFP2 masks to be important only for people at risk. Other mask types are considered to be ineffective facial decorations. Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, Molecular Biologist Martin Kadai, has announced in the ERR on 10 March this year: "The reason can be assessed with the evidence that we have or are missing. When we talk about the obligation to wear masks, the evidence is rather weak. The evidence is predominantly methodologically incomplete or with significant methodological gaps, suggesting that masking in the population may have some benefit in stopping the spread of the virus, but rather the effect is modest or moderate. " The Molecular Biologist Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice boldly states that the evidence of the effectiveness of masks is weak, or the role of masks in protecting against the virus is marginal. Neither the government nor the scientific council have provided the public with any evidence showing that wearing a mask has a significant causal relationship to the considerable inhibition of the spread of the virus. No scientific studies have been published on the effectiveness of the mask as protection against COVID infection. Therefore, it is not known whether the effectiveness of masks has been scientifically proven. How can it be said from the surface that masks should be worn to protect themselves and others? It's just another lie. Our scientists are sending conflicting messages, precisely because there is no clear information. The same masks that the government has made people wear and that are justified by defending themselves and others, are once in their pockets, once on a store counter, once in a purse, or even where. They're used for months in a row, the same mask. What kind of protection can a mask used in this way provide? On the contrary, in addition to the potential COVID, the same mask collects all kinds of other bacteria and ultimately makes people sicker. Deepening into government decisions, there are a number of logic-based questions. Does an omicron contagion when dancing in a club, for example, but a few steps away from drinking cocktails no longer contagious? If you dance scatteredly, are you protected from the spread of the COVID, but standing by the bar in close order, the COVID just doesn't spread? Are COVID spreading when ordering food at the cafeteria counter, but you're safe if you take a few steps away from eating? In order to issue a document in the Police and Border Guard Board, people stand shoulder to shoulder, breathe into each other's faces, many are without mask. Doesn't the COVID spread there? Does the COVID only spread in a designated cafe or sports club? All these everyday situations are absurd, and every thinking person understands that the masking duty and the dispersal requirement imposed by the government has no significant impact on the spread of COVID. Neither of them inhibits the spread of COVID to the extent that this control measure is justified. Forced vaccination continues and people are obliged to wear facial decorations because the government wants to. All of this must put an end to all the existing restrictions on people who are harassing the spread of COVID-19. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U122	Thank you. Now it's time for questions. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The most difficult restriction, as you mentioned in your speech, [is] a forced vaccination of substance based on risk assessments, on which we have always been told that it is as if not government-related. Even the Colonels have been fired, the police have been fired, and a lot of people from elsewhere. We're still ahead of a factually compulsory vaccination. It is said that even at the unemployment fund there is still a requirement that the COVID passport be shown. Forced vaccination on the basis of risk analyses is going on. This has been the hardest restriction. We can discuss masks here, but the hardest restriction is to inject substances with unfinished safety studies. How do you view it? Isn't that the hardest restriction? So we're talking about deregulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U124	Thank you very much for your constructive question. This government has been very distinguished by the fact that laws are being twisted and laundered, and nothing is being done legally correctly. The Government claims that they waived the requirement to use the COVID passport, but the requirement imposed by the government order cannot be waived, revoked or revoked. At the same time, the risk analysis, which was made a tool for releasing people and a tool for forcing vaccination, is, by chance, now out of the picture. The worst part is that today many employers are continuing to apply the same risk analysis, putting pressure on people to vaccinate, now with efficiency doses, threatening to lose their jobs. If we look, let's just open up the website of the state agencies, the employment office, you can see, if there's a job offer, it's nicely written down at the end under the requirements, under this long and long line of requirements, that you need to have a COVID passport. I don't think the government missed it by accident. It is a conscious action, it is a misunderstanding that all control measures have been taken, although they have actually been retained.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U125	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, [it] is currently the second attempt by the Estonian Conservative People's Party to end the illegal restrictions imposed by the government. Why do I say that? The first test hasn't led to anything. In September last year, our party's ambassadors filed a complaint before the court to put an end to the restrictions, because they are not proportionate and in accordance with the legal order in force. It's been seven months. Seven months since then, and I think there's only been one constructive procedure: asked the government for a position. The sitting, the preliminary sitting even less, has not been reached. How do you now assess the conduct that the court has not yet taken the case into [work] as a matter of substance, as well as the government's recommendations: if there are problems, sue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U127	Thank you for your question. I cannot make any assessment of the conduct of the court or take decisions on behalf of [the court]. It's still up to the court. If you look at government action, [it] is clearly people's conscious discrimination, conscious of the division of people and crowds. I would point out that in the autumn, the current government went this way, that if the COVID certificate in the European Union is based on three categories, i.e. one is a vaccination, the other is a defect and the third is a negative test, then our government decided to refuse to issue a COVID passport for a negative test. This means that a very large proportion, nearly 40%, of people were completely separated from social life. This is probably the government's conscious aim, also by looking at the continuation of the masking obligation and the validity of the risk analysis, which each has no justification whatsoever, much less some form of masking duty, at least it has not been disclosed to us, that is their will to discriminate against people in this way, to pressure people to achieve their goal of vaccinating.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U128	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U129	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I've also heard people say that it doesn't make much sense when you're wearing a mask and then you take off the mask and you're talking about it, it doesn't make any sense. But we've been doing this for over a year, and we've considered it useful. Even in planes full of people, no distance or anything, there will be a drinking break and a meal break, and all the masks will be taken away. And Professor Lotman here illustrated that these requirements do not apply to us on the train either. Is there any science-based approach that public transport that moves at a certain speed, COVID-19, does not infect people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U130	Thank you for a very good question. Just as I quoted here from Toivo Maimets, who is the current head of the scientific council, and the interviews given by Irja Lutsari, the former head of the scientific council, have not referred to a specific study or scientific basis. Nor has the government so far made public any research, any fact based on any scientific conclusion or opinion. On the contrary, when I quoted here today, in today's ERR, Toivo Maimets has said nicely how masks do not help to reduce 100% infection, reduce disease and reduce deaths. Their efficiency is better than zero. The question arises as to whether 0.1% or 1% or 2% are better than zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U131	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm probably not original on my next question. We know that our proposal to the Government of the Republic has been made in February. And I'm not original when I say there's been a big change in the world, and the war has gone off. At this point in time, we know that the government, despite its promise, is using different restrictive measures. Hidden, less hidden, or more hidden, but they do exist. And now we've got a lot of people coming across the border, thousands by thousands. How would you comment on this situation in the light of these measures in relation to refugees coming from Ukraine? How could that be a comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U133	Thank you for your question. I can give a concrete example of war refugees. Their first activity is to go to the Police and Border Guard Board to apply for an ID-card because, thanks to their ID-card, they can apply for benefits, benefits and everything else. In Tartu, the Southern Prefecture stood shoulder to shoulder, I cannot say by number, a whole group of war refugees. Exactly from the same room, the plan has been opened in Tartu, and the police officials walked by and went to the shops to oblige them to wear masks. Their own house has a large group of people without masks, no dispersal dishes, and they just pass by, but [to shops] they go to check on people. And now we have two parallel worlds: the permanent residents of Estonia, the residents of Estonia have control measures, or restrictions, but at the same time these restrictions do not apply to war refugees. We have also seen in the media these pictures of how they wait in their accommodation queues, in police facilities or in buses, everywhere no one has a mask in front of them, and they are exactly shoulder to shoulder. They do not have dispersion, they do not have protection, and most do not have a COVID passport, that is, they have not been vaccinated. It is tragic that our local people are ultimately discriminated against compared to other people in the group. In parallel, this kind of action is being carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U134	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. It is now the turn of the co-rapporteur, with a presentation by Mr Hele Everaus, Member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I will give you an overview of what was being said in the committee. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft before you on 15 March. I will not, of course, repeat the excellent performance that was here before me, which characterized this bill and its purpose. It must be said that before Mrs Kert Kingo was given the floor to the representative of the group, Siret Kotka stated that one amendment had been received, and that was from the Isamaa Group. All right, keep going. Following the presentation of Mrs Kingo, the floor was given to Mr Priit Sibula, who introduced the amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group and said that the proposal of the Isamaa Group was to lift the restrictions by 21 March at the latest. As it has taken more time than expected to deal with this draft decision, the enforcement of this proposal would be very time-critical for the Government of the Republic. He also agreed with Mrs Kingo that the obligation to wear a mask is not actually fulfilled or verified in accordance with orders, and therefore the lifting of all restrictions would be the next logical step. Siret Kotka further explained that, following the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the [Kantselei] Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, a majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are needed for the adoption of this draft decision, not a majority of the composition. Since the COVID-19 restrictions are imposed by the Government of the Republic, the Government has the power to amend or revoke them under the law in force and there is no need to initiate a separate draft law in order to comply with the draft proposal. He also pointed out that the draft decision submitted would require a few technical corrections before being sent to plenary and proposed that these amendments be made by the Commission. Both the representative of the drafter and the members of the Commission agreed to this proposal. Mrs Helmen Kütt asked when the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department arrived on the draft decision. Siret Kotka's reply was that it was received on 14 March. The amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group was followed by a vote. It was here that 4 members of the Commission voted in favour: Helmen Kütt, Priit Sibul, Kert Kingo, Siim Pohlak. 6: Siret Kotka, Hele Everaus, Luck Pillak, Viktor Vassilyev, Tiiu Aro, and Natalia Matthew. This amendment was therefore not supported by the Commission. And now such logistical moves: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 21 March (here was the consensus of the members of the Commission), to appoint Mr Hele Everaus (consensus) as the representative of the lead committee and to authorise the chairman of the committee to sign the draft procedural documents (also supported by the consensus). Well, that's all for me right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U136	Thank you very much. There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think we agree on one thing: politicians cannot and must not speak on this issue, but must speak about science that is necessary and which is not necessary. I believe, and you yourself also said that members of the Riigikogu have been sent the opinion of Estonian scientists about wearing masks, which clearly states that wearing masks is more damaging than good. However, there have been no similar responses from the government, which, while relying on surveys of the villages of Bangladesh and on all other references and references, says so there and here. However, no constructive and equally weighty opposition has yet come to the table of the members of the Riigikogu. Please tell me why there has been no objection to this opinion of Estonian scientists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U138	This, of course, was not discussed in the Commission, but the problem is serious. I can only say my point of view, okay? Unfortunately, I have to say that the opinion of experts [is such]. I don't mean to paraphrase here, but it's a joke to say who the experts are sometimes, I certainly respect these experts, but I dare say that all the time that the virus has caused the COVID disease, I've been watching the world's scientific literature every day. And not only watched, but also read. I must say, however, to reassure you that there is a great deal, from laboratory evidence to real population studies that actually support [this idea]. I'm not going to tell you that for over a century it's known how the mask essentially captures those particles that we're all able to get through our noses as aerosols here. The last study was in February: California scientists, who spent the past year doing a very serious survey, published it. Indoor maskers and indoor non-maskers and their actual results. This was an annual survey, which was completed at the end of December and published in February. So I can, if you're interested, send you all these references. In science, there's always one, the other and the third, but evidence-based we've had here in this short time, which is actually only two years. Remember, we got the HIV virus in 1985. Where are we today? We still don't have a vaccine against it. We're still studying, and people are still infected. Perhaps you could say so, some wise man said that a person can deceive himself in many ways: one thing is if he believes what is not the truth, another thing is if he does not believe what is the truth. Well, it's a matter of choice. I think we need to base this on what we can actually do best. And let's go back. 1918, the so-called Spanish flu. It is wise to learn from these lessons. There were four waves. There were three of them, then they got a limit on those waves, when the same masking and distancing were properly monitored. But then, as people are saying now, oh, we're tired then we're tired too. And the fourth wave came in such a way that there was a total estimate that the statistics also showed less than 50 million dead. Eighteen to 20 million died in America. More people died than in World War I and World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. So it makes sense for us to look at what has been and try to learn from it. These are certainly not measures for torture. Believe me, I've seen a lot of people's concerns as a doctor. The problem is what is said in America: many families have lost loved ones. A lot of medics have to be next to their suffering day by day, maybe not helping at all. The problem is, not whether or not to wear a mask. Wearing a mask helps, that's pretty clear. It's proven, and there's no criminality here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U139	A procedure, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U140	Thank you. I would just like to point out, for the sake of protocol, that my question was: why has there been no scientific evidence from the government that the mask is protected? It's just a story that protects and protects. However, in response to the evidence of Estonian scientists, no [proof] has been submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U141	It was a question for the manager, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U142	Yeah, it was a protocol note, I guess. Tarmo Kruusimäe, question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U143	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I know these issues were not discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs anyway, but they are still in the air. There's more, but I'll ask you two. The first is: how much do you consider the probability that there is an attitude that a person who suffers from corona enters [the system] that is sick, and comes into the environment of healthy people? Question two. At the moment, the restrictions have all been removed, but I think distance 2 + 2 is still restrictive, disturbing, Ruining for Estonians and Estonians wishing to go back to the old distance, 5 + 5.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U144	I understand that one question is allowed to both performers. It was like that, wasn't it? Which one do I answer now? The first one? [[Laughing.]] You have a very good sense of humor, of course. This is a big deal, especially during pandemics and, in fact, in the current difficult situation as well. This 5+5 is your choice, you can do it, voluntarily. Right? The government doesn't have to give orders.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U145	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Dr. Everaus! You're an approved doctor, a hematologist. Given your medical knowledge, which I absolutely have no doubt about, I would ask you something that is relevant to the current situation. We all know that people walk around in this Riigikogu building with masks, then come to the hall, masks are in front, some take away and then go to the remote control where you are [now]. And now I'm asking. Now, that hairy creature you're showing, the corona virus, the crown virus, this weird, round ball. I don't know how long he'll stay alive. Now, if you're talking about the microphone here, you're taking off the mask, is he gonna jump on that shit and come to me if I go there after you, or doesn't he jump? When he jumps, wearing a mask in this house is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U147	Thank you for your question. I should actually talk in the mask, and I figured it out here before. The only consolation is that somewhere between five and six meters, I guess I'm so far away from you that it doesn't get to you. You mean this? Absolute certainty that nothing goes here, no. That's right. And that's it. In fact, the main aerosol is, and especially with omicron it is said that... Not to say, but it's been shown that if you're in the same room with a person who's only breathed into that air half an hour ago, you could get that infection. Wise people have written it in articles. If we compare HIV, for example, with HIV, then because it's a heterosexual disease, not what it used to be, it takes men 100 sexual intercourse to pass on this disease to women 200. Look how unequal nature has been to this virus. Look, we have 25 sets of different viruses. The next one's gonna be something else than now. But I don't know, and the world's smart scientists don't know what's coming after the Omicron. We already have a combination. I'm the crazy one wearing the mask, too. And I will! So what if you think I'm crazy? Let me be!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U148	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable Light! I'll continue in the same place. I know that as your medical officer, you will definitely wear the mask exactly as it should be, and I imagine that every two or three hours you will trade for a new mask. But we see here every week, for example, ministers who talk, take off the mask, then this mask goes on this table and back and forth every week. The same thing happens to ordinary people. That mask is, like, I brought it out here in my pocket, on the car seat, then he's in there with cash, then he's on the counter. And it's in use like this for a long time, until it's worn out for daffodils. Many do so because many are not correct for masking use. My question is, how much does a mask like this, already used as a narcissist, protect against viruses in the first place? What's his effectiveness when he's been everywhere and he's been used for a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U150	Thank you for your question. This is definitely a question for the Health Board, who has to educate us every day on food and food and maybe more, I don't know at what point. In fact, that's the case, in other parts of the world, and then people should want to learn too. I've noticed that when, at first, two years ago [this virus] came... If you wear the mask right and I really change the mask here every couple of hours, and that's it, and I throw the other one away, and then you have to wash your hands after it and so on. Washing our hands was so fashionable. But how much do they do now? I'll just bring you [examples] back to history. From every pandemic, the population has come up with a good thing along with it. It was typhus. It began to pay attention to clean water. It wasn't like a problem before. Then there was yellow fever and flu, when public health began to be taken into consideration. It's all complex, it's not taken one by one. So I think it's time we learned from what we've seen in two years. Nature's testing us, nature's watching us do it now. We've thought we'd change everything and we'd give the order to nature, but it's not like that. I believe in man, I think we're learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U151	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame waitress! You were talking about research. I totally agree that some studies show one thing, others show the opposite. But what about the common sense in our republic? How is it possible for the government to explain that you may be in a mall restaurant without a mask, but you have to put on a mask in the hallway two meters away? In the nightclub, you can jump with 500 people in the same room without a mask, but in the big grocery store, you have to put on a mask. There's kind of a huge discrepancy here, and let's just say my peasant's mind doesn't take it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U153	Thank you for your question. I totally agree with you. Well, governments learn differently. If we now take what has been viewed globally, then in fact, both America and Europe have failed in this whole pandemic. Compare the data to Japan, South Korea, Taiwan. Look at the illness, look at the ratios, look at the number of dead. But what was done there? There was a very clear [strategy] and did not miss out on a very clear strategy was from the beginning, thought out, and every day people were taught. In that sense, we have something to learn again, but it is. In the meantime, America was distressed when, in one month, so many Americans died and in their time during the peak HIV spread of the year. It shows that there's a place to think, something's wrong. I'm not here to speak for the government, am I? I'm just like you people who want all people to do well. Right? Did I answer [the question]? I hope [that yes].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U154	Only one question can be asked, Kert. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U155	Thank you all! Make sure it's okay. I remember how Jaak Aaviksoo, when I used to be rector of his team, always said that, uh, make sure it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U156	That's what we're trying to do to the government right now. Now it's like we're going to the negotiations. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U157	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's make sure it's okay. This is really an opportunity to support this statement delivered by the EKRE on 7 February. We all know that this decision wasn't made empty. The initiator of the draft act has already quoted here the debate on 6 January, where Vilja Kiisler asks Toivo Maimetsa. The quote begins: "I'm still wearing the mask just because I don't want to get a ticket. I'm gonna wrinkle it in my pocket and put it in front of the bus. That's what everybody does. But it's pointless. Then why wear it? " Toivo Maimets answers: "The efficiency of the mask is neither zero nor one hundred percent, but it is 20 percent. If you get 20 percent protection from the mask, 20 percent handwashing and, for example, 20 distances, you'll get a pretty good effect. The mask is also an indicator of a certain attitude. Remember when Estonian riders were held hostage in Lebanon? Then we wore yellow tapes. They didn't save the boys. That's how we showed that we care. " End of quote. I think that if you look at the restrictions that have disappeared and the masking remains, or if you look at the debate that has taken place between me and the Prime Minister here on Wednesdays in Question Time, or why these things have taken so long, it is a little hard to understand. But here we recall a quote from the good leader, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, who has called on 23 and 25 January: "Retrieving rapid tests is important, so that people and families who have not been vaccinated can also go to the cafeteria, spas and theatre, by taking a quick test. " On January 27, Jüri Ratas said: "It is clear that it is time to move towards opening up society. I think it is right to ease the restrictions, because this mental tension, which is now between people, families and friends, we have to break. " On 30 January, Jüri Ratas said: "The Central Party Group of the Riigikogu and the Central Party's government delegation propose that the COVID certificate be abolished from 7 February and that other restrictions be relaxed. The proposals of the Centre Party are: the use of the COVID certificate at national level must be abolished; other restrictions must be relaxed; the requirements for self-insulation of close contacts must be reviewed." I thought, then, that I had proposed to help Jüri after the EKRE had submitted a draft for Parliament's treatment, because I felt that perhaps the quotations that I was currently reading about Jüri Ratas, the chairman of the Centre Party, were simply overlooked by Siret Kotka. It could happen. I thought I'd be helping, suggesting that this draft EKRE decision be processed as a matter of urgency, and I proposed it on 14 February. Then it couldn't find any support. On 21 February, I again proposed that I take this draft into procedure, that it be discussed, that the restrictions be removed, because a coalition partner's chairman had expressed it on several occasions, once again, without receiving any support. On 7 March, I proposed a third time, even then there was no support. I was hoping that, in the meantime, the Centre Party would discuss and come to a conclusion that it would make sense to discuss them. On 14 March, when I proposed this, I myself had overlooked that the chairman of the committee had noticed, but, of course, not noticed my initiative, but that the government had announced a few days before that that restrictions would disappear. And then, look at the miracle, we were able to start working on this bill in Parliament, and that is what we are doing here. The question is correct. I'm not questioning the usefulness of the mask at all. It is only a question of proportion whether the restriction is still justified or not. But I think that the most authentic example of this [is it] is that I respect very much what Mrs Everaus said here, in a meaningful context, is that you see, even Mrs Everaus was wrong. While sitting on the spot, if he doesn't talk to anyone, he's wearing a mask, but when he came before us, he took it. Why I remind you of that is that last January, January 21st, when I stayed in the Corona, the Health Board asked me to sign up for close contacts. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U158	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U159	It was, wasn't it, the beginning of the infection and didn't know exactly what to say. Then it turned out, I don't know whether it was partyism or whether all the members of the Fatherland Group with whom I had been together, no matter how far, how long, or how close, were in close contact. Some of the [for] other parties that I had more contact with these days, the Health Board felt that they were not in close contact. Then we had a debate, as Mrs Everaus said earlier in answering the question of Paul Puustusmaa, about how far this spike flies and what is with her. When I asked about the people [who] I had to identify as [near contact], I was on the talk board, so to speak, then the Health Board discussed whether the people who were sitting in front were in close contact. At the time, there were Mr Jaanson and Mrs Everaus and [others] who were sitting nearby. And then they told me that, well, I don't know exactly how intense you were talking. I told you, let's watch the video, how much of this snot flew out of this hall, that I couldn't appreciate it if the Health Board didn't appreciate it, and then a year ago. In that sense, we have become much smarter. As the honourable carrier of the Commission's material said, we can make wiser decisions. One question is certainly that there is no point in questioning whether and what is useful. It's a question of proportions. The question is, if we have a legal basis, we must check that it is being fulfilled. Just as we spoke on several occasions in the Commission, for example at the Police and Border Guard Board today there are war refugees and [there are] people who have to be supervised. It would also be rather strange if there, while people are being given personal identification numbers and trying to deal with these rights, they are being sanctioned for not wearing masks. But it's a legal nonsense that's going on today. The duty to wear a mask is, but the same PB does not control, does not punish, which is humanly reasonable and understandable, but let's not keep this nonsense in the law. Let's do what's reasonable. And if you support the amendment of the Fatherland, the government will have hours to enter into force of this draft decision of the Riigikogu and will be able to lift all these restrictions today. So please support the amendment, the draft itself, and then we will be able to live on without restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U160	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U161	Ladies and gentlemen, It is the case with this draft decision that this draft decision really does not require a majority of Parliament's component Members. This has been discussed and discussed for a long time. What is all the more and more important is that Parliament really does give its opinion on this draft decision. And I dare say that the Reform Party Group will say no to this draft decision. It is not because of whether it is reasonable or reasonable to discuss whether the obligation to wear a mask or the vaccination passport long spoken in the explanatory memorandum to this draft is proportionate or not. No, that's not why. The main reason is that Parliament itself has been the one who has given the Government of the Republic the right to decide these matters more precisely during the previous government or during the previous coalition. And if this hall here decides that there is a need to limit something, it can be done in law if necessary. Perhaps if this objective was to be achieved, a draft law should have been proposed to amend the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and would have deprived the government of the right to make such decisions. This hall itself has decided that these decisions will be made by the Government of the Republic. Then let him do it. It has now been decided that the korona passport will no longer be required. Most of the restrictions have been lifted. And that is why I actually understand the purpose of this draft decision: to be populistly popular, to propose solutions, seemingly, but not in substance. Of course, this debate, whether or not one or the other measure is appropriate for the spread of an infectious disease, is more appropriate to be considered among experts. It is also appropriate to hold this debate in this Chamber, but I trust the experts here. Hele Everaus, by the way, is also, I consider him an expert in this field. He still thinks it's right to be wearing a mask. Some of us don't think it's right to wear a mask when we're in this hall. It's a free choice for all of us right now. We are truly free in our mandate. We are here, as far as I know, in the vast majority of vaccinations, perhaps we have taken this step to keep others from spreading the infection. In short, I didn't want to talk for too long. I wanted to say that, in fact, the content of this draft decision is not substantive, but the content of this draft decision is populist, the aim is simply to draw attention and not to talk about the real heart of the matter. If Parliament has this desire, Parliament can always withdraw the decision-making power of the Government. We will not withdraw it with this decision at the moment. And tell the government that we gave you the right, but do it differently now. So we trust the government, we trust experts who make recommendations to the government, whether to end some or other restrictions, and we look at the facts as well. After all, most of the restrictions have been lifted today, and the government is likely to come to a halt in the near future. This draft decision is not supported by the Reform Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U162	I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. We have one amendment, which has already been advertised here. The amendment is tabled by the Isamaa Group and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U163	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U164	Let's go to the vote call. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are currently debating draft 527 and there is one amendment that has been asked to vote. This is an amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U165	The amendment is supported by 19 Members, against 39. The proposal was not supported. The amendments have now been examined and we have such a format that we are going straight to the final vote. Since we just had a call sign, I don't think we need to make any more calls. Now, how am I going to read this right to you? I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, entitled "Proposal for the abolition of restrictions imposed on the Government of the Republic to prevent the proliferation of COVID-19" 527. This is a simple draft. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U166	There are 20 ambassadors in favour of the bill, 39 against the bill. The bill did not pass the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U167	We are still able to speak today in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Oh, not even after the hammer hit, they're coming. Free mike! Yeah, you're gonna have to rewrite it. First, Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U168	Dear friends! Yesterday, the Russian occupation forces bombed an art school in Mariupoli, where 400 civilians had sought shelter. The building's been destroyed and people are still trapped under the wreckage. The Mariupoli defence battle has been going on since 24 February. The city of Mariupoli, where some 430000 people lived before the war, has been surrounded for 20 days. The creation of humanitarian corridors has failed many times because of the resistance and treachery of Russian troops. Over 130,000 people are still in Mariupoli. At least 3,000 of them have died. The actual number is likely to be higher. The city has no food, no water, no drinking supplies, no electricity, no central heating, no medical care. Russian Air Force and artillery keep Mariupolit under fire all the time. Thermobar ammunition is also used. Most of the city has been destroyed, 80% of the infrastructure has been destroyed. On March 9, the maternity home was destroyed, where newborn children and their mothers died. On March 16, a drama theater was crushed, with over 1,000 people in hiding. The theater was hit by an air strike, even though the word deti was written in large letters in front of it. You might think it was on purpose. It's very difficult to save people from ruins because the city is being kept under fire all the time. People are still trapped under the ruins of both the art school and the drama theatre. There are also reports that thousands of people who have been captured by Russian troops have been deported to Russia. We can only guess what fate awaits them there. Other towns in southern Ukraine have reports of Russian soldiers looting, robbing, raping. This is all a history-familiar mosquito horror that is now repeating itself again on European soil. Those men who fight in surrounded Mariupoli and protect several hundred thousand civilians are heroes. So said President Volodymyr Zelenskõ, who declared the heroes of Ukraine last week the leader of Azov's battalion in the defence of Mariupol, Denõss Prokopenko, and the leader of the 36th Marine Brigade, Volodõmyr Baranjuki. Soldiers who fight under their command are heroes alike. Thanks to them, the last Ukrainian fortress on the shores of the Sea of Azov has survived. Thanks to these, Moscow still has no control over the southern part of Ukraine or a permanent land bridge between Crimea and Donbass. Mariupol needs the support of all the peoples of free Europe. Without our support, Ukrainian troops will not have the strength to break through the siege to deliver supplies, food, weapons, reinforcements and humanitarian aid to Mariupoli. A week ago, the Riigikogu made a historic appeal, inviting Ukraine to establish a restricted area. Now we have to take action. We must call on all our allies to strengthen Ukraine's fighting capacity by all means. I also want to address the Estonian people. Cute National Companions! Every day when the Tall Hermann Tower flies blue black and white, it's a miracle. Every day free Estonia is a gift. We owe it now to those who are holding Russian tanks in Ukrainian steppes, mud fields and suburban ruins. If it weren't for the people of Ukraine, it would be our cities, our forests and our clearings. We are together in this fight, we cannot leave Ukraine alone. Good friends! We need action now. Ukraine does not have time to wait for the current sanctions to take effect on Russia. Those people who lie under the wreckage of Mariupoli drama theatre and art school don't have time to wait for the sanctions to take effect. Let us save Ukraine, let us save Mariupol for European freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U169	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U170	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about Mariupoli, too. The last month of [time] is the main place in the evening, where I dive, Ukraine, and what is going on there. Last night I've been in Mariupoli. Now that art school bombing, yeah. But there grew and began as an artist my one idol, Archip Kuindži: Russian painting, or what it is, a great figure. This same light, which is by the Sea of Azov and in many other places, is wonderfully and better than anyone else who has painted it. Repin has said very much about this. And this is his town. But why is Mariupol important? The important thing is to look at the meaning of this war and at the war map, the Kremlin predators have actually looked at the present Ukraine as a piece of meat that must be torn apart, and these pieces have their own names. A few pieces already exist: Donetsk People's Republic and Lugansk [People's Republic]. But besides, the main big piece is a piece called Novorossija, which should extend out of Odessa to Lugansk. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Donetsk City is only 100 kilometres [from Mariupoli]. And that's why these battles are really wild out there to complete this connection. But that is, by looking at the Kremlin, the Novorossija, where the seven nations should come, apart from Donetsk and Lugansk, Herson and Kharkov, and so on. But these pieces of meat on the Ukrainian body are actually the Maloressijar above it. That's the Ukraine, and then there's gonna be a big Rossija upstairs. But that's one side. The other side, [of] the architect is, one might say, our man. Here in Tallinn, on the slope of Toompea, seven years there was a man named Valeri Gerassimov: Chief of the Russian General Staff, [in service] The Tondi regiment and Keila's tank regiment. 1987-1994 he moved around Tallinn, also here at Toompea. He's the author of Gerassimov's doctrine. [This is] the man who is still in charge of the General Staff and who should accept the victory parade in Kiev. A victory parade! The same, it served in Tallinn for seven years on Tondi [man]. Then he was a lieutenant colonel and a colonel, now he's an army general. He's from here, and in his time, a radio station was made here, if you remember, Nadezhda, and its headquarters was on the slope of Toompea right here in the Defence League building. Later, it was taken to Keila's tank station. And he's the architect of this thing. The Syrian War as well as the first war between Donetsk and Lugansk, and he is very well aware of all this. But what's the result? Remember when there was a migration crisis in 2015 and then it was [the number of people] million who came to [Europe], over a million. [It] was considered to be the greatest movement of people since World War II, such a disaster. Now I've seen that, as of yesterday, 3489644 people have come from Ukraine, escaped. Poland, however, is 3.4 million. Indeed, in 2015 there were only 1.3 million. And as a result, some other Gerassimovs have died. Vitali fell, one of the generals. Andrei Sukhovetski in Mariupoli and so on. So actually, what would I like to say here? Yes, Ukraine is vital and important for us, perhaps because Valeri Gerassimov is currently waiting for the parade that, I think, is not coming in Kiev. And I'm sure he's looked back to Estonia, where he served for seven years, also here on Toompea, near it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U171	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, It's International Forest Day. If it were not for the horrors that Russia is conducting in Ukraine, this day would certainly receive more attention. The forest has been our fortress even in difficult times, and it is undoubtedly one of Estonia's most important natural resources. Estonia is a forest country. More than half of our land is covered with forest. If we count inland waters off land, we'll get 58.3. With this, we are the fifth most important among the 46 European countries. Only Finland, Sweden, Montenegro and Slovenia have greater forest cover. In Estonia, forest land per capita is 1.84 hectares, and with it we are the fifth largest in Europe. There are more forests per person in Russia, Finland, Sweden and Norway. When it comes to forestry, it must be borne in mind that our aim is to share economic, environmental and social aspects. It's not like that often. And there has also been a mistake in this Chamber against this principle. But now it would bring out the challenges facing our forestedness and start with the most acute. The war in Ukraine has had a very strong impact on our established trade and economic relations. We can't, and we can't feed the Russian war machine today. This means, however, that we urgently need to find alternatives to Russian gas. Estonia would need half a million cubic metres of energy wood in order to move the boiler houses of our settlements from gas heating to chips. Sufficient energy wood resources are available in our forests. Let this fact be illustrated by the fact that we have a circa of 30 million cubic metres. We need to think about how we will replace the timber that has come from Russia and Belarus to the industry so far. Forests play an undoubtedly important role in the ecosystem, and Estonia has reason to welcome the diversity and protection of its forests. If we are among the five best European countries with something, then surely with the protection of our forests. More than a quarter of Estonian forests are protected, more than 14% of forests are strictly protected, where all economic activities are prohibited. On average, there are 15,7 cubic metres of dead trees in our forests, or 36.5 million cubic metres in total. This shows that there is far too much intensive management in our forests. In order to protect forests as ecosystems, quantity must be replaced by quality. Each decision must first be made clearly to set out the objective with the metrics and then to implement the most effective action to achieve this objective. Forest owners should be involved immediately in nature conservation. Today, forest owners have been viewed as enemies, forgetting that there are more than 100,000 forest owners in Estonia. Nature conservation is a public good and society as a whole must contribute to it. Forest owners must be compensated for the nature conservation restrictions and the compensation must be fair. The current practice is that in deforestation, the owner has the hope of obtaining fair compensation, while in the case of nature conservation restrictions, in the best case, half of fair compensation. By doing so, the state has given a clear message to the owner of the forest: keep the natural values away from your forest. This is deeply unethical, and here too, ladies and gentlemen, we have reason to look in the mirror. Only recently did we deal with a law on the basis of the principle that forest owners keep their natural values out of their forests. Forestry brings bread directly or indirectly to 56000 people, or almost every tenth employee. About 3900 companies operate in the forest and timber sectors in Estonia. The sector's estimated gross value added is 2.2 billion euros, which represents 13.8% of the total value added created by Estonia. The annual tax contribution of the Estonian forest and timber sector to the state budget was more than 1.07 billion euros in 2019, or about the same amount as we spend on education. We have world-class forest science and education. We have a rich forest resource that must be used wisely in the interests of the Estonian people. We keep our forestry and act like a real forest country. Happy International Forest Day!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U173	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U174	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people, elected and sworn heads! Of course, happy International Forest Day, although we have a lot of things going into the woods here today too. Yesterday, by the way, it was International Macron Day, and obviously one man is already bored [of] calling Macron every week and making some suggestions to him. But that's not what I want to talk about. I've made a lot of suggestions here on the remote, but they're not getting anywhere. Maybe it's because they think I'm a little more radical, but that's who I am, take it or leave it. The nationalists of the Fatherland have long pressed for the Kremlin propaganda to be brought to an end. We didn't get anywhere in this hall, not anywhere. Politicians, media experts said and said they were buts, but they couldn't. Came in from the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, closed down. Last Friday there was a youth meeting, or [simulation of Youth] Riigikogu. The so-called Isamaa Group came up with the idea that we ambassadors have also responded, which was done by the Estonian Arms Owners' Association, so that citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, who live in Estonia with permanent or temporary permission, would be taken away and the weapons permit would be revoked. The issue is not at all a minor problem, as the various estimates still have 2 000-3000 combat weapons in their hands. Let me remind you, these people have sworn allegiance to today's aggressor states. It's going well. Now, another thing, symbols to incite hatred. I'm not going, I'm not going. I come to the remote like Tõnisson, bare-legged, again and again to say that something needs to be done. I'm not going, I'm not going. Today it went! Today, the Pro Patria Bill, which would ban the symbols of hatred and aggression, also presented the change of arms that, believe it or not, was adopted by the Youth Parliament last Friday. And today, I was supported in this sense by the Anti Half Office, who came with exactly the same [idea]. We also had a discussion on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but with the Polish forest we remained gentlemen and did not say that we were planning to hand over such drafts. But in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we came up with a great idea that we might be talking next week, which is then over the next week, and maybe the Minister of the Interior will be discussing this with us. Well, we know his point of view that it's kind of case-by-case. This, however, does not satisfy us. Now there are two things that have gotten worse. I don't see the power that's doing it anywhere else. You ask what you, the citizen and the voter, can do to minimise all these dangers so that we do not repeat what happened in the Luhansk and Donetsk Oblasts. First, a good voter, remember who you chose in the Riigikogu, then contact him and ask him if he supports the draft banning of hate symbols and also the withdrawal of weapons permits from the citizens of the aggressor state who are here. And when some round "but" comes from there, ask whether the national security of Estonia is more irrelevant than the lack of a party position. Put pressure on your ambassador, because at this point our neighbouring country is already at war with one country and he has warned us for years, years. Oh, yes, there are those in our midst who insist that war is justified, that Russia does everything well. However, if these people happen to have a residence permit application in place, do we want them in Estonian society? Or who already has a temporary residence permit? I think they could live peacefully in another place, not in Estonia. And precisely so that we can live peacefully here in Estonia. All we want is peace on this earth. Slava Nazi, smert vorogam!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-21_U175	There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow.
