ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will start the 9th working week Tuesday session of the VII plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats hand over the draft amendment to the Family Benefits Act. This draft provides for an increase in child allowance per child per month for the first and second children of the family in order to improve the livelihood of families with children. As we all know, under the current law, the amount of child benefit for the first and second children of the family is currently EUR 60 per month and for the third and each subsequent child, the amount of child benefit is EUR 100. The amendment concerns more than 236000 children. Why are we making this amendment today? Let us look at the exponential rise in energy and food prices, which has affected the economic livelihood of very many families with children, and not in a good way, but on the contrary. There are children and families with children who have remained in absolute poverty. And I guess it's hit families with a painfully lower income. Unfortunately, the rapid rise in prices continues. I recall that it is the duty of the state to come to the aid of families and support their livelihood. And the purpose of family benefits is to support families with children and their growth. If we look back and we also look at today's corona crisis and compare how the Latvian state has come to help, then, unlike Estonia, for example, the Latvian state paid 500 euros to families for crisis support last year. The Social Democrats hope that all members of the Riigikogu will support this amendment. The bill has already been handed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U3	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We can guarantee Estonia's security if our actions are broad-based. It is not only about strengthening the Defence Forces, increasing defence investments, raising better armaments, working with allies, and not only about ensuring greater internal security through the work of the Police and Border Guard Board, but also about making society more united, there would be less tension here. Therefore, the Prosamaa Group submits a draft law, a draft law amending the Aliens Act, to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Its aim is to establish a legal basis for abolishing the residence permits of Russian public supporters of the war of aggression against Ukraine and also to exclude the granting of new residence permits and visas to such people. It also states that the period of stay of an alien in Estonia will be terminated early if an alien publicly supports the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine. It also refuses to issue a long-term visa to an alien if an alien publicly supports the Russian Federation's war of aggression. The [grant] of a long-stay visa for an alien is also revoked and is also refused a temporary residence permit if this alien publicly supports the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I think it is important to make such an addition to the current law and it is the basis for our security authorities to act to ensure that the moods and messages of war in Estonian society do not find a favourable place to bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U5	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U6	Honourable fellows! Much has been said about the need to repair our income tax system, but there are still no actions. The Social Democrats have already proposed twice to raise the tax-free minimum to at least a minimum wage, but twice the Riigikogu has found that the requirement of income tax on the recipient of the minimum wage is fully justified and fair. As they say, three are the law of the court. But this time we'll come up with a slightly different approach. We're handing over a bill that deals with both the income tax-free increase, but now pay attention, good fellows! It also deals with where this so-called famous tax hump begins. Today, however, we have reached a situation where, in fact, our teachers, our nurses, their salaries, which are not sufficient and which must be raised, have reached the point that, according to our tax system, they are highly paid people who must be taken away from their income tax-free minimum. In this context, in addition to the proposal to increase the tax-free minimum, in this draft, we propose to increase this reduction in the tax-free share to EUR 2000 monthly income, i.e. EUR 24000 per year. Of course, with this in mind, we are foreseeing a smoother angle of rise, so that, for those who earn more than EUR 2 000 a month, this solution would also be fair. With this, of course, we want, on the one hand, to make our tax system fairer, but, on the other hand, to help all those people who are currently hit by very severe and steep price increases, leaving them with more money. For example, for teachers, this would mean that almost EUR 1000 [add] would be available at the end of the year compared to the current tax regime. Thank you. The bill has been delivered digitally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U7	Thank you! Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U8	The situation with regard to our military security has changed dramatically, and this requires decisions by the entire parliament and the willingness of Members to contribute to making decisions without delay for the faster development of Estonian military defence. In this context, I will address an inquiry to Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, in which we will ask eight of our heirs to state, on the basis of the military advice at his disposal, what military capabilities he believes need to be further developed immediately in order to protect Estonia from the Russian military attack. The heirs stress that, if the [reply] to such an inquiry were to contain information which is [to be dealt with] as a state secret, this part would be requested to submit a state secret in writing in the form of a [receiving] document. I would like to call on all Members to engage in such cross-party cooperation in a spirit of quicker development of national defence. And based on this spirit, we are establishing, today, in this Chamber after the end of the plenary session, at one or two o'clock, a support group for the faster development of national defence, so that we can have a cross-party power in Parliament to encourage the government's more benevolently determined action regarding the development of military capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U9	Well, no more wishes. These three drafts and one inquiry will find their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now I have a message to give you. You have already heard this a little bit, but yes, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a support group for the faster development of Estonian national defence, and it will be convened by Urmas Reinsalu. Now, please, the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U10	74 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U11	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, the second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens. Please ask Tõnis Mölder, member of the Constitutional Committee, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U12	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Then let's start at the beginning. The Constitutional Commission met last Tuesday, 15 March and we had on the agenda the preparation of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on student grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic for a second reading. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the authors of the amendments, as well as representatives of interest groups, were invited. So much for this bill, it's a long history. So maybe it makes sense to go through this history once and for all. The draft was launched by the Government of the Republic on 14 September 2020. The first reading took place in the large Chamber on 21 October 2020 and the deadline for amendments was 20 November. In total, 40 amendments were received from members and political groups of the Riigikogu. Today we know that around 10 March, perhaps a few days here and there, the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, and the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Andres Sutt, presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to amend and supplement their draft package of amendments. Most of these amendments concern the original text of the draft text, but there are also amendments that are driven by the foreign policy and military crisis. We discussed these packages of amendments, which specifically concern this draft law, at the last meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place last week. I think it is reasonable to start by reviewing the amendments. I've divided them into different blocks. The first package of amendments specifically concerns Russia's military aggression against Ukraine and the migration of war refugees as a result. Through [these proposals], we will be able, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, who has developed [these proposals], to propose urgent solutions specifically for integrating [war refugees] into the labour market. As a result, these legislative changes are a matter of urgency. The aim is indeed to provide Ukrainian refugees and their family members in Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine who stayed in Estonia before 24 February, whose basis for stay ends, with a legal basis for arriving in Estonia and temporarily staying in Estonia. More specifically, this set of amendments is divided into three groups. One is that the target group is given the legal basis for arriving and staying in Estonia. The second is that the differences in work are laid down. The provisions on short-term employment no longer apply to work. Provision shall be made for a wage claim under which the employer is obliged to pay a Ukrainian worker a fee equal to or greater than the sum of the last published activity of Statistics Estonia, i.e. by multiplying the average gross annual wage and the coefficient by 0,8. And the third block, in particular, the sub-section: access to labour market services is also granted even if a person does not work, so we also offer them social guarantees. The third [group] among these amendments is that the provision of the law granting international protection to an alien is repealed, according to which the beneficiary of temporary protection may work in Estonia under the conditions laid down in the Aliens Act. It is a package that is more broadly linked to working to help Ukrainian citizens who have arrived here enter the labour market as soon as possible and manage all of this independently. The second block concerns the general conditions for labour and learning mobility. The aim of the changes here is to promote the achievement of talent and investments in Estonia, while paying close attention to preventing and deterring misuse in particular in labour and learning mobility. If we know that there are some 11000 working hands missing on the Estonian labour market every year, it is also important to find top specialists from outside the European Union. Here are some amendments, first of all the reduction of the wage requirement for top specialists from the average Estonian gross wage to 1.5. Its annual impact is estimated by MKM at EUR 7 million. We are talking about the fact that the Estonian labour market could be supplemented by 1000.1500 top specialists, to whom we would pay a higher than average salary. Then there is the possibility of outside temporary employment after short-term employment for up to two years, under the so-called 1+2 system. This requires the employer to fulfil certain conditions. It is precisely for short-term work, valid for up to two years and subject to the condition that it cannot be renewed and cannot be applied for a residence permit at the end. The third block is to facilitate the involvement of external workers in technology-based growth companies. In the case of growth enterprises, the [set out] legal criteria are very clear: for at least 10 years in Estonia, at least 50 employees in Estonia, paid at least 1 million euros in labour taxes and [cumulative] increases in labour taxes have been at least 20% in the last three years. Perhaps we will give Estonia's unicorns, who have confirmed here, an opportunity to be present at a certain stage of growth in Estonia in the next decade, with their headquarters, which should give us an additional forecast tax revenue of almost 160 million euros. Somewhere in five years [should] add 12,000 jobs. Now, external labour risks are mitigated by proposals and accompanying conditions. The development of information systems relating to foreign procedures and the significant increase in the number of officials in migration monitoring are an important aspect, we really see that there is also a need to step up surveillance. Human resources needs from 2023 would be eight processors and eight migration monitoring officers. We also see that additional work is also needed here until information systems are completed, and IT developments are planned to be financed from various EU structural instruments. Additional measures: In order to comply with and return pay tax requirements, provision shall be made for the possibility of prejudicing the employer and applying coercive money if the employee is not paid an appropriate salary. Today, we know that there are gaps in legislation and that it is not very well ensured that companies are called to order. And perhaps the most important part of this last [block] is that, within the framework of temporary agency work, additional conditions are put in place for the clearance of external workers and the deposit requirement imposed on rental companies is specified. We know that at present, the temporary agency has to put certain guarantee amounts into the bank account with its own expense and letters to guarantee employees one month's salary, but in the future it will be possible to guarantee this either in the form of a credit institution guarantee or in the form of insurance. Now those provisions that are excluded from this 241 SE. In the case of short-term work, a full-time requirement shall be introduced. In the future, all members of the family of a short-term worker shall not be granted a visa under the same conditions as they normally do. There are a number of exceptions concerning minors. If the family wants to come to Estonia, it is just family members who have to apply for authorisation to stay in Estonia on [other] grounds, and these opportunities are available. This means that when one family member comes to Estonia, it is always possible to ensure that [other family members] can visit this family member on the basis of a visa. This is precisely a provision to review the basis for this family's arrival in Estonia. And now those blocks that concern the expiry of a temporary residence permit for study 30 days after an alien interrupts his or her studies or does not complete a proper curriculum. These are the provisions relating to the fact that we have third-country nationals who come to work in Estonia, maybe study here for six months or a year, then they leave their studies out and somehow work on the labour market here. Here we take very clearly the view that, after the completion of the studies within 30 days, this person must leave the country, unless he or she wishes to remain here on some other grounds. Foreigners who have settled in Estonia for study purposes and have completed their studies can apply for a new residence permit on the basis of the objectives set out in the Aliens Act. That's one side. And the third thing that I think is important is that an institution of higher education must have a valid institutional accreditation to invite foreigners. Perhaps we can rule out the possibility of having higher education institutions here, whose one of the business models is bringing students from third countries here. Now the things that have been removed from this bill are the proposals concerning seasonal work: the temporary reduction of the allowed seasonal work period and the introduction of an average wage requirement for seasonal work activities, the authorisation of short-term work only on the basis of a long-term visa, the requirement that the employer should not have made a full-time job for which registration of short-term work is requested during the 12 months immediately prior to the date of application. Changes in higher education [delete] the obligation for higher education institutions to charge tuition fees to foreigners studying in foreign languages. This last point has, in fact, already been resolved on the basis of a contract between the Ministry of Education and Research, which they are dealing with and concluding with the university. It's regulated well enough there. And one provision, which is also out of here, is the amendment to the Study Grants and Student Loan Act: the need-based procedure for the payment of study grants. This means that Parliament has already spoken on 23 February and removed this draft from the package. The last block of amendments concerns the letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice that the conditions of employment of seafarers from third countries should be more clearly regulated. The amendment is necessary to ensure the competitiveness of the flag state of the ship, the activities agreed upon in the plan, to specify the employment of foreign seafarers and to ensure that Estonian seafarers have equal opportunities to work on ships flying the flag of Estonia. There could be some EUR 20 million per year for the entire package's expected tax revenue to come into effect, and we can see that the volume of public revenue is still increasing over the five-year period. Yes, this bill also has a certain cost side in the name of the first year. This cost side is 5 to 7 million, which is precisely the IT development of this control mechanism. This was then a brief overview of the amendments that have been tabled. Now I shall go quickly to the Commission's debate. As I said, ministers gave an overview of this block of amendments. We also had some points of discussion in the Commission, and I will give you an overview of this. The question in the Commission was that no good numerical statistical surveys were found in the whole package of amendments, which are the labour and immigration issues, which is the forecast of the movement of people when this law is adopted. Speaking of numbers, the minister replied that the current short-term employment [registrations] are today a circuit of 16000 and, according to MKM forecast, we can see that this figure could increase by about 1,000- 1,500 top specialists per year. There was also a long debate on how the crisis of war refugees in Ukraine will change our labour market and what are the forecasts here. Well, still, the minister said it was very difficult to say one forecast today, but he really did bring out 75,000 in one of his discussion formats. This means that we take into account that we are not talking about 75,000 hands at work, but we are talking about what includes family members who are minors. It was also a question of how, as we know, economic sanctions have been imposed on our eastern neighbour, as well as on Belarus, and how this affects our labour market. And then there was the question of whether 10,000 jobs could be lost from the Estonian economy. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that this forecast is incorrect. Then there was a debate on whether it was appropriate and topical to deal with this draft at the moment. We know that there are perhaps more important issues here. But indeed, the representatives of the government felt that it was appropriate to process this draft at the moment, given precisely that there is also the issue of Ukraine here. The question was, however, that if the residence permit of the holder of temporary protection was extended to three years, would his status remain temporary. The answer was yes, this status remains temporary. There were also questions that were based on the Local Government Council Election Act. Do people who come here as refugees have the opportunity to participate in municipal elections? The answer was no. And then there was a long debate about the fact that, as we know, the Ukrainian state has declared mobilisation. At the same time, we know that we have [Ukraine] men who are currently working in Estonia. How do we ensure that those who are on account of us today as working hands fulfil the obligation to mobilize before our country? This draft does not specifically concern this, but I think it is important in itself to discuss this issue, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also supported the initiative to hold this debate. The long question was about paying salaries to Ukrainians, using a coefficient of 0.8. After all, it may actually encourage us Ukrainians with a higher salary to be released from work today and to employ Ukrainians with a lower coefficient. It must, of course, be borne in mind that, in the case of average wages, we are still talking about the fact that only those employers who are in metropolitan areas can pay the average wage. If we want war refugees to be spread out in proportion across Estonia, then indeed employers and most umbrella organisations who are here have said that this average salary cannot be paid, but a coefficient of 0.8 will be reached. This, of course, does not mean[that no more can be paid]. It's a minimum, you can always pay more. I see we're running out of time. Yes, indeed, we also had various sub-divisions and their representatives there, who mostly supported it [the draft]. The Estonian Employers' Confederation said that it supports the package of amendments tabled by the Ministry of the Interior and MKM. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation also said that there are some questions about war refugees, but once again, they support this package as a whole because they see that certain compromises and balances have been achieved here. The position of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry was precisely that they thanked that interest groups were involved, that they too supported the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and MKM and asked for this law to be processed quickly. There were also the views of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, which also support this general package of amendments. So much so that there were more than 50 amendments in total, but a lot of proposals were withdrawn before they were examined. The Reform Party Group withdrew 11 amendments; Andrei Korobenik, together with Siim Valmar Kiisler, had tabled six amendments and were also withdrawn. These amendments partially declined because they were withdrawn by Mr Korobenik, and Mr Sester also withdrew his three amendments. Under the leadership of Mr Kivimäe, we examined these amendments and then reached the most important points - decisions. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 22 March this year. Then we had a long debate on whether to interrupt the draft at second reading. That, too, is what we voted on several times in the Commission. The Commission's decision was, once again, to propose to close the second reading in the large Chamber and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 6 April. The last decision taken was to change the Commission's rapporteur and appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, here. This was a brief overview of what took place in this long, hour-long debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I can see that the people in the hall have questions. I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U13	Yes, indeed. In this round of questions, it is possible to open up what has happened in the Commission. The questions will be started by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U14	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good performer! We know that this draft has actually been submitted to the procedure during the previous government, and the actual content of this draft was to significantly narrow the possibilities of bringing low-cost workers to Estonia: shortening the period of time they can stay here, imposing stricter wage requirements and making the conditions for moving from one job to another or moving from learning to work more difficult. This bill remained on the shelf when the government changed, and the new government came with an amendment to the Aliens Act, which contained all the things you were talking about now and even more. Now I have a question: why, in the current situation, where tens of thousands of people have arrived in Estonia within a few weeks, who have all been granted unrestricted access to the labour market without any requirements, was this bill removed from the shelf instead of going ahead with the draft of today's government, and it was turned on top of its [previous] bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U15	Thank you. Here is first, I think, the honest thing to say is that really, the previous government has initiated this bill. I think that they have done this work very well and, in fact, the content of the draft is good. It is precisely the initiative of the previous government. But that does not mean that today's government has done a bad job, but I think it has made this bill even better. Somewhere 70% of the original text and the total package of this draft is precisely a so-called previous government, perhaps in your sense a good government, so it is actually a good government-developed draft. Now the question is why this is coming here right now. I think that there are different answers, but one that is important is precisely that we give the war refugees arriving here today a specific basis for their stay and a specific basis for their entry into the labour market in Estonia today. More importantly, we will extend and lay the foundations for those people who will end their stay here and who should return to their homeland. Of course, we know that there are very many people who really told their employers in these difficult days that they will cease working here and go to defend their country. I think these men and women are very commendable and made the right move. But there were also those who remained in Estonia, and they also need to be given the certainty here that they can stay. I think that we must show solidarity with the Ukrainian people on this issue, and this package of amendments that have been put on this table will help the war refugees to cope with the Estonian labour market and give them the protection they need now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U17	Good manager! Dear waitress, It was only last week that we discussed the quality of legislation, which the former President of the Supreme Court gave a destructive assessment. My question is this: how do you assess this bill in the light of the year in which the quality of our work will be discussed? Actually, it's an abuse of a war situation. There's been a stand-up bill being pulled out and all kinds of buttons and other things grafted on it. Is it beautiful? Or are you just gonna use these war monsters as a so-called tie leaf to push through your agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U18	Thank you. Once again, I think that there is no one in the agenda here, but it is still a joint decision of Parliament. Several political parties from several governments, including the Estonian Conservative People's Party, are behind this draft. Coming to the quality of this work, I am not the right person to assess the quality of the work done in this Parliament or its so-called non-quality. But what I think is, once again, as I said, the amendments that were tabled are still very clearly linked specifically to this original text. The large Chamber has the right [to decide] whether to improve this quality in any way during the procedure, to take a break here, perhaps to stop the second reading, or to proceed in such a way as to make the final vote as early as April, when Parliament meets for its first week of sitting. Well, the options are different. Personally, I think that we could move forward with this procedure as quickly as possible, precisely to give certain security to the refugees who have arrived here. This does not mean that it is precisely these amendments to labour and learning mobility that are within it that are not important. I would like to emphasise once again that there are a lot of amendments here, which have been specifically developed in the previous government and which actually tighten the conditions for the arrival of both workers and learners coming here from a third country. And in fact, this [draft] also provides an opportunity to impose different injunctions by the State, sanctions on companies that violate the rules in force here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U19	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! However, I should make some adjustments to the fact that there is no contact with the Conservatives' proposals in today's version of this draft. And war refugees are protected in all respects in Estonia, so it does not concern war refugees either. But generalising: you begin with a draft law that violates [the end] the national state and the meaning of the Constitution. You should first change the constitution, and then you will be able to further demolish the nation state with great success. I have two questions or a question with two sides. First of all, do you know any success stories or economic prosperity in the world based on black workers and seasonal workers earning slave wages? And the other side is, did PortoRollo spend a nanosecond thinking...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U21	[[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U22	... before bringing a bill to the hall, which is likely to paralyze the work of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U23	Thank you. I'm still coming back to this argument. So let's agree so that we have this debate in this Chamber, it would be good to keep it, that it is a good government draft. This does not mean that the government that is in office today is not good. They're both close to my heart. But the initiative of this draft is indeed the government of Isamaa, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Central Party of Estonia. And once again, as I said, 70% of this draft package has remained exactly the same as this good government has initiated. You asked two questions and I will be honest with you that I did not understand these questions very well. Of course, these issues were not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But in answer to your last question, I would still say that I do not see the possibility that, until the summer, the work of the Riigikogu would somehow be paralyzed. I believe that this procedure will continue here until the questions I have been asked are over. Then, during the negotiations, it is possible for every member of the Riigikogu to express his thoughts for up to eight minutes, and then we will probably go to the vote on 20 amendments which have reached their large hall. It is possible for your group to take ten-minute breaks here. I think this is how we get out on Wednesday afternoon, and then it will be possible to put this draft to a vote on completing or suspending the second reading. Actually, spring just started this weekend, so it's still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U24	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Do you not think that, now that we have to accept unprecedented amounts of tens of thousands of war refugees from Ukraine, we should immediately establish a moratorium on all other immigration and take away, repeal those residence permits that have previously been granted very lightly? This bill is now moving in the completely opposite direction. In fact, we should still stand for the Estonian people to remain a majority nation in their own country. Don't you find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U26	Thank you. I think that even after this law has been passed, the Estonians will still be the host here in their own country. That law doesn't change that now. One thing that I think is important to bear in mind during this procedure is this. You have somehow proposed that the state has given certain people a guarantee or a promise, but at some point let us turn this promise upside down. I think you as a man, too, if you give the floor, you will keep the floor. I think the country should do the same. If he has given the floor and these people have allowed this labour market, he must keep the word. So the kind of thing we're gonna end up here sometime prematurely, I'm not gonna support it. Nor was it discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U27	Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U28	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question as to whether the ambassadors have one or two options to ask questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U29	As always with second reading, the members of the Riigikogu have two questions. Please! Oudekki Loone, please! Or, Tarmo Kruusimäe, did you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U30	Yeah, I registered, and according to that, I'll formulate it. Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This family issue has been up all the time. I know you didn't discuss this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I was able to be such a spy. But [I ask about] how, let's say, people from Asia claim to have a pretty big family, and then they start to remember them [family members] all the time. Their cultural space is that a man can still support women and has the means to do so. But let's say a regular refugee doesn't have one. Did you talk about this too? The honeycomb family is very large in Estonia at the moment. And I don't see that background check for foreigners either. According to current changes, it is very easy for Wagner's fighters to come to Estonia and say that they are refugees. What's the background check?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U31	Thank you. We have dealt with the issue of what you are dealing with, so to speak, multiwifeism. I am indebted to the answer as to whether it was one of the representatives of your group who raised this issue or someone else, but I think we have dealt with it. Indeed, even if allowed and accepted in other parts of the world, Estonian law does not allow or accept to legally hold more than one woman. Of course, what they do in their spare time is up to each individual. But the possibility, as your representative in the committee has shown, is that a person from a third country will come here and take his seven or eight women, who he can support in this Estonian country, [Estonia does not have]. Once again, there is no such possibility of adopting this bill. Any person who wants to come here as a labour force must still ask the state for the basis of his or her presence here. The state processes and controls the background of the people on which they can stay and on what rights they want to come here. It is not possible to automatically take your spouse with you [from a third country], not to mention that this person has several spouses registered in third countries. Now, as regards your second question about citizens coming from abroad who may be a security threat to Estonia, I think that our law enforcement authorities are doing a comprehensive background check today for those who arrive in Estonia. The risk of people coming here who do not support the regime here, or who may somehow be hostile to this regime, I hope that it will be brought to the minimum possible level, and I believe that our law enforcement authorities will do a good job on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U32	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U33	Thank you. The Confederation of Trade Unions has received a number of signals that refugees from Ukraine are offered work for up to four times less than local workers for similar work. We have also heard doctors coming from Ukraine try to circumvent the salaries agreed in the collective agreement. If we now make such a change and say publicly that yes, the Ukrainian refugees can be paid less than the average in this area of activity, is this not a signal to employers and businesses, given today's situation, that you can actually take 20% off your salary? The entrepreneur can always say, you know, I have a tail at the door here, I can pay them less than I've paid you so far, so go away or do something else. Did you discuss such a wider impact on our salaries? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Did you ask for an opinion...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U34	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U35	... from the union union? And if you asked, would you please present this opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U36	Yeah. I will start with the rear end of your question, which concerns the Confederation of Trade Unions and its position. Indeed, the Confederation of Trade Unions, as I said, was, once again, supportive of this whole draft in the big package in its opinion. It was pointed out that a good balance has been struck, namely that the pay rate of top specialists is being reduced from two to 1.5 on average and that there is also support for making a member of the board responsible. Indeed, what you referred to in the first half of your question is that, as far as refugees are concerned, everything in the draft may not be as good as it is in relation to the 0.8 [treasuring] wage payment, it was both the Confederation of Trade Unions that saw certain bottlenecks here and some members of the Commission that criticised it. I agree that this is a kind of problematic point. But at the same time, there are arguments against it. Firstly, I think that, in implementing this system, we will be able to monitor very clearly and precisely what kind of pay will be paid to the war refugees who arrive here. Once again, this is a minimum standard which does not deal in any way with the fact that these people, workers, cannot be paid higher wages. Now, the other side is what the Ministry has also pointed out is such a regional aspect. As I said, in some sectors there is no ability to pay outside Tallinn Estonia's average salary. We know that the people of Estonia who work there, too, are currently not getting an average salary. That means that in that case, we will not guarantee it. Our wish is that the war refugees who arrived here would not be stuck in one city or one region, but would still be relatively balancedly distributed across Estonia. It is precisely this coefficient that allows these people to start working outside Tallinn and Tartu. It is such a regional dimension. And the third half is really what we have to take into account today: 70% of people arriving here in the middle, I think, are actually women and children, or minors. Clearly, for those areas of work where this may not be the case, but where men are, in a certain sense, more valued, although I think that women are also very capable of demand for men, there is greater demand for men, today no storm [run]. Once again, those men who have decided to defend their homeland will not enter Estonia today. They're on the front today, unfortunately. And we sincerely hope that one day their families will also be able to return to their homeland with their men.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U37	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U38	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This issue of Ukraine is always glowing here, although the draft was initiated for quite another reason and long before the war was ever mentioned. [It was initiated] merely to prevent our own labour [not] suffering [or] from moving out of this country and from bringing down the level of wages. I quote from Taavi Rõivas in 2014, he said that there is still potential and still potential for greater involvement of our own people in increasing the productivity of our own people and thus paying them higher wages. Was there a similar principle with business stakeholders as to how the wage levels of our employees could go down with such a redesigned and spoiled bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U39	Thank you. I say once again that we see that the lack of working hands today is actually in those jobs that are not attractive to the working hands of Estonia or whose working conditions are not attractive to them. For example, the IT sector, which is actually very much affected by this draft, is still paying between two and three times the average wage in Estonia today. Given that we have a great potential in this sector in Estonia and that there will be a great deal of job creation in the future, as I said, on certain occasions this bill has taken account of nearly 12000 new jobs, most of these jobs will, of course, be filled by Estonians and Estonians. But we also have to take into account that if we want to be a locomotive in this sector in the world, we must also help bring in an external workforce whose competence is very high and who will also help us to move this sector. So we have to find this balance right here. I don't think we're taking jobs away from Estonians with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U40	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U41	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You see, this scheme facilitates immigration in the form of labour or cheap labour influx as a whole. The part about war refugees is small here. Estonians currently make up 69% of our population. If we assume that the changes that have taken place in recent years in the population will survive, that means that the total coefficient of our birth rate will be 1.6 and our migration balance will be 4 000-5000 plus, then Estonians will become a minority in their own country in about half a century. Certainly, I suppose, these amendments were preceded by a thorough impact analysis. My question is: how big do you estimate a positive migration balance after introducing all these changes? Everyone, not one. Do you agree that if this doubles, we will become a minority within 25 years of the circa?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U42	Thank you. I'll give you some numbers. First of all, 11000 workers go out of the labour market a year. There is nothing to do, our population is ageing and the lack of working hands in Estonia will not decrease over time, but will continue to grow, i.e. the deficit is large. Another thing that is certainly important: yes, indeed, within the framework of this draft, top specialists can arrive in this country around a thousand or a little more. To say that this somehow solves the issue of our lack of hands, it is certainly not going to solve it to the end. It is also important here that our own population grows, but we did not really discuss this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, I do know that the committee on the problem of [solving] the population crisis, in which you were also a party, has been discussing this issue. The second question continues to be whether we will remain masters here in our own country. I think we're gonna stay. Even after this bill is closed, we will remain the master of our own country, and this [draft] will in no way lead to this tendency. From now on, most of the people working here are Estonians and Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U43	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U44	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! One comment. At the beginning, you said that somebody thought this was a good one, and somebody thought that 70% of the government bill was not so good. Look, if 30% of honey is eaten from the honey pot and somebody pours it on the tar, there's nothing to do with that honey. No matter how good the rest of this thing is down there, there's no way to get hold of it. In my opinion, it is worth treating this bill in the same way. It doesn't matter what percentage of it is good. But I have a question. The more I listen to your answers, the more embarrassing I get. I do not understand exactly whether you are trying to solve labour market problems or the issue of war refugees. That is why I would like to ask whether it was also discussed in the Commission that, in the context of the situation that we are facing at the moment, the issue of war refugees who have arrived here should be regulated as a separate law in relation to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U45	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that in this first block on the honeypot, whether we are in agreement or not, it seemed to me that we did not find the joint part. But in terms of being a good government, we found a common language. Now, coming to the question of whether a separate procedure was considered, I really do not find this place, I think, in a minute, but I nevertheless found Mr Reinsalu suggested that we somehow group this draft [amendments] and that the Commission initiate a draft that would only concern amendments on Ukraine, i.e. amendments on refugees. But the committee, under the leadership of the chairman, did not support this decision. The chairman of the committee actually gave Mr Reinsalu a lead here: it is equally possible for each political group to pass on drafts and enquiries at the beginning of each sitting. So, yes, in fact, the political groups also have this opportunity. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support it in this form, which does not mean that this would be excluded until the end. If, for example, the reading of this draft is interrupted, perhaps because of the critical time frame, it would be more reasonable to split it somehow and go with some part of it to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U46	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The previous questioner hit the deck, that's my interest. There are a lot of individual details and regulations, but unfortunately, the weakness is the whole thing. We currently have two processes [mixed]. And since the chain of events that trigger these processes, the war on Ukraine's territory, has not ended, I would say that it is an extremely bad time, because we do not yet know what factors these are. Unfortunately, I didn't hear the things I'm asking you now. What is the purpose of all this bill, these improvements? What are the implications for the education system, the social system and regional policy? What is the time frame for these effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U48	Thank you. I agree that the situation in the world is bad. And in fact, the objectives of this draft continue to be [there are several], here are several parts of the package, as I said. One is to give the Ukrainians a chance to work for the war refugees who have arrived here a chance to cope on their own. The second block concerns a clearer framework for labour and learning mobility. The third block, which I think at least seems to me to be the case, which is my personal opinion, could be sympathetic to you, is that we are still very clearly tightening up the working hands of third countries to arrive here, but also the status of students studying here. I gave an example that, if the learning basis is lost, today it is possible for this person to continue working in this country on certain occasions. Perhaps food couriers or something like we know have come here somehow for learning purposes, even though, in fact, these people have not practiced learning activities for a very long time. But in the future, it will still be very clear that when the basis for learning is lost, these people are lost souls for the university, then the Estonian state will give them a very clear signal after the adoption of this law that you must leave this country. The other side is that of bringing family members, for example. It is possible to bring family members, but still every family member must prove to the Estonian state why he wants to come here, on what grounds he wants to be here, except, of course, underage children and people with special needs who really need the care and help of this family member. But we are making quite a lot of rules more stringent, which is precisely about the use of external labour, which [at present] is perhaps not very balanced and which may not be in line with the objectives agreed in the law at the time. We are going to tighten these points very clearly. So it's important. It was also a question of perspective or time frame. I finally said it out here, but I can go over these numbers. Once again, in the first year, some EUR 20 to 30 million per year is expected to generate revenue, and in five years' time, we will see that this revenue could have risen to some EUR 176 million. If not to joke around here, but to talk seriously, then really, we also want to increase the cost of the Defence Forces today, for example, but somewhere this money has to come to the state budget. Well, he's still going through the economy and through the fire of work, so we're going to have to encourage entrepreneurship through it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U49	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, I have long understood that today's government is capable of corrupting a good bill, even if it does not contribute 30%. So in the case of 30%, it makes no sense to be surprised that this bill has not become anything constructive. But my question is whether you will continue to think that the situation has not changed in any way, even after tens of thousands of war refugees are coming here, perhaps 100,000 refugees, and the situation on the labour market is the same. You also do not take into account that the unemployment fund has forecasted us at least 10% unemployment in the near future. [Do you think] that all of this still needs to be implemented, as you have planned with this 30%?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U51	Thank you. Again, don't get me wrong. Like I said, I thought the previous government was good, but that doesn't mean that this government isn't good. This government is also very good, and the government was also good. [[A voice from the hall.]] And the government that had Mr. Ligi was also very good. [[Laughing.]] I now come to the point that I said that 70% of what was in the original text of the draft is still very clearly in place and has not been amended. Is this [the remaining 30%] good or bad? Once again, I believe that this 30% is actually what, after the completion of the first reading, gave itself as an input, namely the different umbrella organisations, who are very importantly affected by the adoption of this whole draft package. I agree with your forecasts here that the number of unemployed will increase rather than decrease in today's situation. But at the same time, I will continue to bring in this side, too, that we have a shortage of working hands in Estonia, we have a very large shortage of working hands on a sector-by-sector basis. As I said, the circuit of 10,000 people a year goes out of the labour market, we have an ageing society. So we also create more jobs in Estonia with this bill. There is a certain balance and a mechanism here. What are these forecasts going to be once and for all? It's hard to say, because we don't really know how many war refugees are coming here today and how long they're staying here. I could predict, but I don't think that's right, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs didn't really discuss it. And the third half is what I said that the structure of the people who are coming here today is very clearly in place: women, underage children, older people. There are no men coming in terms of labour, they have a duty to mobilize, and they are today defending their country and their homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U52	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Good Tõnis, you've said here many times that this is a bill from a previous good government. Yeah, the previous government was good, it's okay, but the rest goes to demagogue. In the sense that if you change the substance of the draft by 5% or even 1%, but it changes the substance and purpose of the draft, then, as has already been said here today, the content and purpose of this draft is quite different. So in this sense, I would ask you not to smear this bill as the will and will of the previous government. But the question is: did you discuss in the Commission how many Estonians will start to go out and look for work in other countries after the implementation of this draft in the next five to ten years, as the wage level here will be reduced? I'm sure you have some kind of calculations. Please talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U54	Thank you. There was no such debate in the committee, to my knowledge, which specifically concerned how many Estonians would leave Estonia after the adoption of this law. However, it was said that there are really Estonians who are working in certain sectors outside the Estonian state today, as either it is not possible to offer such work in Estonia or it is not possible to pay such a salary, I will give the IT sector as an example again. In the case of certain specialists, we know that they have an application abroad today, but there is no application in Estonia. Now, for example, with regard to the topic of growth companies, it will certainly create such highly skilled and very well-paid jobs in Estonia, which could in particular attract Estonians who have left this country to return to their homeland, because they would find applications in their home country, both challenging work, a good working environment and a worthy salary. Once again: with this bill we will not take jobs away, with this bill we will create more jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U55	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U56	Thank you. Well, now it's gotten a little messy. I agree exactly with 30% of it. If we had a higher sector-specific wage bill previously imposed, but now this number is significantly reduced and the rest of the sentence remains the same, then it is a complete turn-on without having to change very much the text. The direct result of this bill is to bring down the wage level in Estonia, because it allows to bring more people to Estonia without limit, in fact, on a lower wage. I don't know what kind of world it's going to create any more high-paying places. We are already seeing people from Ukraine being recruited from Ukraine instead of those who have come from Ukraine before, with a cheaper salary. This is creating a crisis in the Estonian labour market. Of course, this is something that big employers and these big employers like to have parties close to Estonia. But please don't lie that it's creating more good jobs for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U57	Thank you. I disagree with you here in this sense that if we create more jobs, where we pay higher than the average wage of the Estonian state, then obviously these are jobs with higher wages, which will also increase economic growth. In what you have highlighted in the second part of your speech, I agree with you. I also think that this is a problem if we have employers who take advantage of the current situation and somehow restrict the equal treatment of certain people, precisely through wage pressure. I certainly don't support that. As I said in the Commission's debate, I was one of those who highlighted the problem of whether it is reasonable to apply the coefficient of 0.8. Ministers and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were confident that this would help to meet this regional dimension. I have also said that I think that supervision is very important in this matter. All those employers who, in any way, put pressure on employees of whatever nationality they are, either to move to work at a lower salary or to otherwise let them go, although in fact the economic performance of the company is not bad, these entrepreneurs are certainly not exemplary and the state must intervene. I believe that trade unions, the Labour Inspectorate and other institutions must be informed about this. In this case, I think that these companies must be made very clear. The aim of this [draft] is not to make the situation of the people working here worse, but rather to offer the war refugees who have arrived here the opportunity to start working with a good salary. And once again, take this into account, I don't have any county statistics at the moment, but I'm sure we have counties where in some sectors the average wage in this county sector doesn't reach 0.8, but is below that. In such a case, these employees should be paid precisely above the average wage in the sector in that region.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U59	Good manager! Good Tõnis! Your passion is truly impressive. But you know, Tõnis, if you pee in a honey pot with 70% honey, then you have to throw that pot away, not start licking. But now the more serious question: have you discussed whether this bill, a good draft, has an analysis that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and European Union law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U60	Ladies and gentlemen, the vulgar use of words in this Chamber is not appropriate. I really apologize to all the listeners, including those outside this hall. Please, let's keep our language polite. Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U61	Thank you, good Peter! I'll give you one good suggestion: if you open a honey can, all kinds of flies and wasps will fly in, so maybe this proposal you're proposing isn't the most reasonable. But I will now come to your question as to whether it is compatible with the directives and legislation of the European Union, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Estonian State. Really, I think they're consistent. In our committee, too, there was a debate on precisely what concerns the amendment of certain different provisions and specific paragraphs, the repeal of some paragraphs. It is precisely here that it is based on compliance with the European Union's current legal order and on the fact that it is precisely war refugees who come here too that will be treated equally in all the Member States of the European Union. If any political group thinks that there is something unconstitutional here, there is a certain mechanism in place for the group to seek its opinion on it. And, in fact, for every draft that is being announced, the President can also consider whether or not it is a constitutional draft. In my opinion, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U62	Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U63	Yes, Mr. Pevkur. I do have a procedural question. Perhaps the Bureau should discuss whether the other words relating to "go" and that word, such as "bladder," should be replaced by other words, such as "pie-bladder."
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U64	It wasn't a procedural question. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U65	Thank you. Good waitress! You have said several times that you think that Estonians will be the host in their own country. I would like to ask what this opinion is based on. After all, we see the share of Estonians falling, and this law certainly contributes to this. I would also like to ask, although it makes no sense for me to ask, did the Commission discuss this, because you answer that you did not discuss it, but why did the Commission not discuss this fundamentally important issue of the proportion of Estonians and the majority of the population in its own country? You see, the problem right now is that it seems as if you are not interested in the proportion of Estonians and how far the current government is prepared to go with the fall in that proportion. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please disprove the impression that the government doesn't care.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U66	Thank you. I think that this very fundamental question that you have raised is of interest to all the political groups. One way in which, in my opinion, every group will be able to come to this large hall with such large debates. So one way for the Estonian Conservative People's Party to come here with this important question is to discuss and debate the large hall. Indeed, this debate did not arise in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Why didn't you? Because no member of the Commission or rapporteur touched on this issue in this form and therefore, since he did not, perhaps it was not important, because this draft does not see any danger. You asked me what my fortress was based on. You know, Estonians here in Estonia have been holding through different centuries, through different regimes, through different crises and problems, we are still masters in this country. So I guess that's what's gonna happen in the future. I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U67	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U68	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. You mentioned that there is a shortage of working hands, particularly in workplaces where conditions or pay are not attractive to locals. If we now get the situation that we take the women of Ukraine who have fled the war and make them do this kind of slave work, then it would be regrettable if we were to support the reprofilation of our economy so that we do not earn cheap labour. Did you also consider that if the official justification for [coefficient] 0.8 really was regional equality, then it could have been solved by saying that we are paying the average of this activity in this region? This means that we honestly admit that Tallinn's salaries and Antsla's salaries are different, and we take this distinction into account, instead of saying that we are reducing everyone's wages by 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U69	Thank you. First of all, I think, and I hope, that we will not make anyone slave with the amendment to this bill. People who go to work have the same working conditions as all the other people on the labour market. One thing I would like to emphasise in the case of this coefficient of 0,8: this is a temporary measure. If the situation in Ukraine stabilizes, we will see that the flow of war refugees to Estonia will stop and the Ukrainian families here will return to their homeland, then obviously we will go back to the system that is currently in force. In that case, the wage coefficient will change. Your question as to whether we considered making regional differences in any way is that in the case of Tallinn and Tartu, for example, there is one coefficient and outside Tallinn and Tartu there is another coefficient. Yeah, it was a debate. We admitted that it could be implemented, but technically it seemed to us today perhaps too complicated. The representatives of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Internal Affairs were convinced that if the wage level in Tallinn is so much higher, you will simply not be able to find and motivate people below it today in terms of competition. However, this coefficient allows a person who gets into the labour market outside Tallinn today to get a job, find a shelter and still manage himself in this country without the great help of the country and at some point return to his home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U70	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I don't envy you in your role today. But your arguments about top specialists are, of course, relatively unconvincing, because we know that the average salary and attracting a top specialist to work are nothing to do with each other. If there is still a real peak, ten times the average wages in Estonia will be paid. We are still talking about the filth of our labour market and the littering of what this bill is trying to do. But has it been known to the honourable Members of the Commission that in another country, even with our neighbours, there has been an attempt to quickly amend, push through and simply use the law in the shadow of Ukraine's war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U72	Thank you. Now I come back to this debate, which first concerns two specific amendments. One is the issue of pay paid to top specialists, which must be at least 1.5 times the average gross wage in Estonia in this sector according to Statistics Estonia. Once again, this draft does not preclude paying a person five times the average wage in Estonia or higher, but it sets a minimum standard. So if we bring someone from third countries to Estonia, it would be people who we see that in Estonia we do not find these hands or knowledge in such a short period of time. We know this, again I will give an example of the IT sector, that at some point when the company is in a growth phase, jobs are not created by dozens of jobs per year, but by hundreds and thousands. The purpose of this draft is to create more highly paid jobs in Estonia. Now, your second question is whether we're somehow screwing up the labour market. I don't think I do. In the sense that we are setting very clear criteria on which people can come to work here. We are tightening up the arrival of the family members to be taken here, which means that each member of the family must show the Estonian state why he wants to come here. We also strengthen the study opportunities of foreign students coming here, and we also say very clearly in certain places that when a person comes here to study, he comes here to learn, not to work. And the other half is that when a person comes here to work seasonally, he comes here not to work at zero decimal points, but to work full-time. If there is a working time, there is a working time, and if there is a learning time, then there is a learning time. They don't even go through things like that. So in this sense, I think that this [draft] will provide some clarity and also certainty that we will create higher-skilled jobs, where the average wage in Estonia will be paid over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U73	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U74	Thank you. Good waitress! You talk all the time that this law allows you to bring top specialists to Estonia. Well, I'm sorry, it's not true, you understand. The downgrading of wages is not encouraging the [come] of top specialists, but precisely low-cost labour. And there's no correlation to the salary paid. We already have about 45,000 unemployed among our people, and if you intend to bring tens of thousands of extra low-cost workers here, claiming that their tax revenues would allow us to have national defence here and I do not know what everything to develop, then in fact, the consequence is that our own number of unemployed people is increasing and the subsidies paid to them are increasing exactly the same. My question is this: have there been any impact assessments of the rise in unemployment benefits that we will have to pay as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U75	Thank you. First of all, there are unemployed people in Estonia today. I think the percentage of the unemployed will remain in that area of 5% in the future. I think that in each country, the number of unemployed, which is around 5%, is perfectly normal even in conditions of economic growth. If there is a period of recession and a moment of crisis, the unemployment rate will certainly rise. We know the periods in which it has been higher in Estonia and then the pressure on these aid measures has increased exactly the same. I cannot agree with one of your arguments. I do not know where you read out of this bill that tens of thousands of workers from third countries are now arriving here. However, we must look at this side because, indeed, many people have arrived in Estonia today, but not because we are changing this bill, but because these people cannot be safe in their own country. I'm talking about a refugee in war. Yes, their number has increased by over twenty thousand, and it is likely to increase further in the coming weeks. Of course, we hope that at some point these people will be able to return to their homeland. But we must take into account that these people [must] be provided with support mechanisms, support mechanisms, support for our country. These people will have that right. Our goal could be that we not provide these people with social support mechanisms, but still help these people to the labour market here in Estonia, pay them a decent salary so that these families can manage themselves here. And at some point, I hope that this will happen very soon, these families will be able to return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U76	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U77	Good manager! Good Tõnis! First of all, as an entrepreneur, I am telling you that cheap labour does not create high-paid jobs, there is no point in repeating it from the speaker. Entrepreneurs create jobs, not employees. But now I want to refute your false claims. First of all, about war refugees, you're talking about 0.8, and that's wrong, according to the bill, minimum wages can be paid to war refugees. Nowhere does it say that war refugees should be paid an average of 0.8. The other half is moving it 0.8 below the Estonian average. Here it was very well offered that the average salary in Estonia can be paid regionally, and the tax administration also checks that no envelope wages are paid anywhere. And the third claim was that the number of incoming foreign workers would not increase three times, because you are extending one year to three years, or... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U78	Time, Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U79	...three times as much can be brought. Please disprove my arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U80	Thank you. Well, I don't know, you were the one who was trying to disprove my claims. I didn't think I heard any place where you made any real claims. Surely I agree that in business you are a stronger hand than I am, but in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we did not take such a measure. I'm gonna read one more thought to you on this paper, and it's kind of your homework. There is also work to be done outside the Chamber, and I am giving you a thought assignment. Once again: if the top specialist is paid gross wage [coefficient] 1,5 and Estonian average gross wage product, how is it a cheap job in terms of taxes, in terms of getting paid, if it is above the Estonian average? In my opinion, it is very clear that if we create more jobs where we pay higher wages, then they are also more valuable jobs in economic terms. So once again, this bill does not bring in cheap labour, where it is possible to pay as little as possible. This creates the opportunity for Estonian companies to create jobs where wages are higher than today's Estonian average. So in that sense, I do not agree with your statement to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U81	Mr. Chef, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U82	Yeah. I would ask the President to tell the representative of the Commission that he must respond according to the draft he is defending. He's just lying right now and lying in the hall is very bad. I have a feeling that the manager needs to take a ten-minute break so that the waitress can look at this draft once and understand the content. He has not read most of its contents now, and that is why he responds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U83	Okay. Let's get on with the questions. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! According to the unemployment fund today, we have 44800 unemployed, but we have 7400 jobs to offer. And you're gonna tell us about the huge shortage of labour. Where is this shortage of labour if the numbers are: 44800 unemployed and 7400 jobs? In a situation like this, the logical result is that there is going to be a lower bid. It's the one who gets paid less. And this bill only encourages low-cost labour [use]. Before you said that the state must intervene, the [employers] must be joined. At the same time, this bill allows the state to do so. What law would the state be able to intervene on the basis of, and how could the state take over those employers who pay less wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U85	Thank you. First of all, the figures you brought in for unemployment statistics: how much work we have that would like to enter the labour market today and how much jobs we have to offer. I think that without changing this law, the situation will remain more or less the same. We need to understand that the place where the demand is for workers and those who want to come to the labour market, i.e. the job offered and the skills or motivation of people to take up these jobs, are incompatible. Your question was how it is possible to enlist companies that do not comply with the laws established in Estonia. I will continue to say that it is possible to make precepts for these companies, and it is possible to impose forced money on them. But once again, in this package, it is precisely the place where we can see very clearly that so far the Supreme Court has, in its various decisions, granted the right to companies that have made yokk schemes in which workers from third countries have been able to cheat here, either through temporary labour companies or some other company, very clearly in their wages or under some other conditions of employment. And we can see that the country's tooth doesn't start on them. This bill, together with the package of these amendments, gives the state certainty through the Supreme Court's decisions that we can call these companies to order, to impose a penalty on them. And if these conditions are not met, obviously both the workers who have arrived here and the employer's state will be prosecuted, the workers will be returned to their home country and the employer will be ordered to do so. If he can't do it, he's gonna have to shut down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U86	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question about the very [issue] I asked earlier, about the need for this draft, so to speak, and about the changes in the labour market in the current situation. You may know this in the context of the current good government, who is also close to your heart. He's running after all the events. But still. At the end of February, the Minister of Social Protection announced that Estonia could accept and manage 10,000 war refugees. There are currently over 20,000 people in Estonia [flagged from war], talking about 100,000 people. What did Mr Sutt tell you about the outlook for economic policy? It is speculated that in the near future, as a result of aggression, Russia's war against Ukraine, some 12,000 jobs will be lost in Estonia as well. What kind of problem do you actually solve with this bill? We know the cost of all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U88	Thank you. First of all, what problem do we solve? I think there's a lot of problems. We offer the opportunity to create more high-paid jobs in Estonia and to revive the Estonian economy, but also to provide state support for the war refugees who have arrived here. The question of these numbers. We had a long debate on this in the Commission. I agree, I too have heard very different figures from the ministers of the Government of the Republic about the capacity of the Estonian state to accept war refugees. Really, this number is different, not in repeats, but in dozens of times. There are people who speak of 10,000 [Ebony], even though we already know today that we have twenty thousand, and there are people who speak of 100,000 [Ebony]. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a number like 75,000 on the move. Like a Bingo lotto game, no one knows what the next number is. Now, the question of what you also referred to. We know that this war has led to economic sanctions, also in certain sectors of Estonia. According to our forecast, how many jobs are there that will disappear in Estonia? Your good colleague, Mr Urmas Reinsalu, pointed out a number like 10,000. Mr. Sutt pushed it off the table, said no, this number doesn't sound plausible, this number should be significantly smaller. You said a number like 12,000. Again, I can answer here using Mr. Sut's logic that no, this number is smaller. But what's the number? Again, as part of this draft, a specific calculation to assess the impact of sanctions or war on the Estonian economy and how many jobs will be lost has not been done and it is difficult to predict at the moment, but I think that this impact is definitely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U89	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U90	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable waitress! You answered my previous question that after the adoption of this law, the Estonians will not remain in any minority. But my question was second: do you agree that, if this law is passed, Estonians will remain in minority after a few decades on the basis of the current figures? Please answer this. Let's go. It is precisely the influx of cheap labour that will be encouraged by this scheme, as the wage bill will be lowered. This hampers wage growth, economic renewal and, ultimately, economic growth in Estonia. And now the quote: "If cheap labour allows us to continue today's underproductive activities, why invest in technology innovation and think about making better use of the workforce? " This is an outstanding economist and, by the way, your former partymate, Viktor Trasberg. Do you have any reason to believe that you are more competent than he is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U91	Thank you. I'm sure Mr. Trasberg is a respected man. But no, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we did not compete over whether I or Mr Trasberg was smarter. Now, once again: Estonians do not remain a minority in this country. I'm convinced of that. But I'm coming to your logic, which you're trying to conjure up here in turn. You say that there will be huge amounts of low-paid jobs created here, which will in no way contribute to the development of our business and economy and which will somehow take away the jobs of us Estonians here. First of all, there are a number of things that don't add up to your logic. If we create more jobs whose average wage requirement is higher than today's Estonian average wage, these are not cheap jobs. Question two. These jobs, where this wage criterion is not in this form, are not permanent in Estonia. These people are then subject to the so-called 2 + 1 system as a result of this amendment to the law. In addition to this [time], these people must return to their home country. These are not people who live here permanently. Similarly, these workers with 1.5 products will not live here, but they will be able to apply for a longer basis for staying in Estonia under certain conditions. Those who come in a shorter period of time do not have this basis [for application] option.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U92	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Tõnis! You're driving some pretty crazy demagogue around here, pretty crazy. Your assertions about this, just as this bill would make something better in Estonia or that we are doing a good job, are false and demagogic. First of all, this particular draft is nothing more than the exploitation of the Ukrainian military shelter to increase migration. We're talking about some kind of high pay here, good Tõnis, that's a 1.5-fold coefficient, that's a positive, that's a negative. Tõnis, this is negative because in the current law it's 2, not 1.5. He's losing it. The other thing is you're saying we're getting paid up. Yes, it has been said repeatedly that this coefficient of 0.8 is not mandatory, it is minimum, but believe me, it is being used. Also, given that we currently have 45,000 unemployed and... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, okay, Tõnis, be good and tell me specifically now that you've claimed...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U94	Time, Mr. Woodland!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U95	... that there is a tightening of migration, one example of which is, in fact, a tightening of migration.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U96	Thank you. Well, there were so many questions here, now think about which one to answer. First of all, I would like to say that what concerns the arrival of war refugees and the payment of wages to them on the basis of a coefficient is a temporary measure. We sincerely hope that the situation in Ukraine will be resolved as soon as possible and that these people will be able to return to their homeland, and that in this case the legal framework that was in force before the outbreak of this war will immediately apply again. Now, the question is, what is tightening [in the case of this bill]? As I said, these are provisions that remain the same in this 241 SE. I read them. Let me give you another example. A foreigner studying on the basis of a residence permit in Estonia can invite a family member after a two-year period. But once again: he must explain very clearly why he invites this family member here and on what grounds this family member wants to come here, and each family member must apply for it and show why he wants to come to Estonia. Under the current logic, it is possible to come here to work and take your family with you and stay as if it were settled, but in the future, we still very clearly want every family member who comes here to show his preference and [just] his desire to come here. Here's another example. As I said, there are very clear criteria: if it is time to study, people will come here to study in Estonia, and if they want to work, they will either come on other grounds or go back to their home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U97	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, such a demagogue artillery fire can now be seen in Mariupoli. It may be comparable. Indeed, if 2.0 is less than 1.5 and 1.0 is less than 0.8, then it's not like saying anything. But I'd like to come to my last question, if you'll remember that. You said that you are aware that the unemployment fund has said that we are facing an increase in unemployment, which is likely to be up to 10%. You have taken this into account in this bill, but it is not a problem. Perhaps you will then briefly state what is the general objective of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U99	Thank you. The general objective of this draft is to continue, point one, to help the refugees who have arrived here, by offering them the opportunity to enter the labour market in Estonia as soon as possible, so that they can manage to help them to become independent from the help of the Estonian state and to live independently in this country. We hope, of course, that this will be temporary and that these people will be able to return to their country of origin, where they really want to go. On the other hand, it is very clear that we are setting criteria on the basis and under what conditions people can come here from third countries to study and work. The third side is that we are still very clearly tightening up the measures that people learn or work here on the basis of, so that we have even more capacity to look at who is coming here and why they are coming here, and that the current situation is not abused in any way. And maybe the fourth block, which is important, is that those companies that have broken the laws and the rules imposed in the Estonian state can be punished more severely in order to minimise the number of infringements.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U100	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U101	Good waitress! First, clarification. Indeed, cheap labour is in any situation when foreign workers are paid less than local workers. But I want to talk about aging. After all, every immigrant living here permanently as a working age will eventually grow old and will have to be paid a pension. Estonia's pension costs are currently very high due to previous immigration. A large proportion of people who have arrived by means of labour migration have retired and as much as 40% of the 60-69-year-olds are non-Estonians. Thus, the promotion of immigration is at the expense of the future, i.e. it is a pyramid scheme. It does not limit the ageing of society but deepens it. You have talked several times today about how our workforce is ageing and it needs to be replaced. Is this not how we continue to realise the Soviet model?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U102	Thank you. First of all, it's about cheap labor, or the claim you're trying to throw in the air and I'm going to kill it again. Once again, the coefficient of 0,8 applies only to Ukrainian citizens and it is a temporary measure, it does not apply over the field. This 0.8 is very clearly linked to the conflict in Ukraine and to helping the war refugees return to the labour market. Now, the question you asked there was one in this sense, I am not saying that the mistake, but the problem: not all the people who come to work in Estonia will live here. There are certain time frames for coming to work here, but to stay here for the rest of your life, there are different time frames and different bases. There's no way to equalize them. Just because someone comes here to work doesn't mean he can live here for the rest of his life, or retire. The third plea that was made. I would say the other way around: if we do not revive our economy and create high-paid new jobs here, we will no longer be able to pay pensions to pensioners living in Estonia under the current system, because obviously social tax receipts will fall short of demand and we already have to pay out pensions today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U103	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U104	Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, Foreign workers from third countries are affected by wage increases. Norway has carried out studies to show that wages increased twice as slowly in those sectors that were imported or where there was migrant labour. That's a fact. We can talk about high wages here in Tallinn, but not in rural areas, somewhere along the border or somewhere else. My question is this: there have been so many changes to this bill, but what analysis is the basis and what would it entail for Estonia, our own workforce? I can just say here that the corona really brought more people to rural areas. It is now said that the state of Estonia cannot respect its people, and the possibilities of leaving Estonia will be explored again. It's a very big threat sign, that's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U105	Thank you. You have highlighted and I agree with you that it is clearly difficult for entrepreneurs outside Tallinn and other major cities to pay the average wage in Estonia or the average wage in the sector. There's nothing to do. And there's also a lack of hands today. We see, as your good colleague has pointed out, that indeed, we have a certain number of jobs to offer today and we have a certain number of working hands to offer today, but for some reason supply and demand are not in any way compatible. This problem, to which you referred, is that the people of Estonia are going to leave their home country again. I think that we should do everything to ensure that these people are safe here, that they have social guarantees, a working environment and also a decent salary. We can say yes, with this draft we are dealing specifically with workers coming from third countries. But at the same time, it gives our economy more capacity to create jobs with added value, which, as I said, could attract people in certain sectors to stay here precisely because the workplace and the working environment are challenging and the wages are competitive, or even the top specialists, such as the IT sector, to attract back to their homeland, where they might not have an application today, because our companies have not yet reached this level in their growth phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U106	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U107	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, You have thought so much here today, many times that Estonians remain masters in their own country. You've also had opinions on [other things], so you've become an opinion leader in the meantime. But you do not have a survey of how many Estonians will be able to leave here in the next 5 to 10 years after the adoption of this law. I ask you for the opinion of the opinion leader: how many Estonians will go away after this law has been passed and there will be job vacancies for cheap labour in this country? And the second question on which I would ask your opinion is: how much do you think it is optimally manageable for the Estonian state to accept Ukrainian war refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U108	Thank you. First of all, in the case of this report, I could always answer that this was not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and thus put a point to your question. But I'm still essentially trying to answer, and that's why I'm talking about my thoughts and my views, and that's why I sometimes think something. Whether these opinions are correct or wrong can be assessed by each Member himself. Returning to the question of how many people will leave this country after the adoption of this bill, I will say once again: I do not appreciate [the likelihood] that such a problem will arise, big. Of course, there are always Estonians who are going to look for a better place in a wide world and come back in a few years and find that a better place than Estonia does not exist. But like I said, every year, about 11,000 people work out of the labour market. Estonian society is ageing. I think one problem that every Estonian can deal with is that we have enough posterity to get more hands on us Estonians. The second thing that I think is very important: somehow we have to cover it 11000. At the same time, however, we are also creating more jobs with this bill, namely high-skilled jobs and the creation of well-paid jobs. That, too, is the question of how to meet them. After all, we want the economy to grow and the economy to flourish, which will enable us to offer people stronger and better social guarantees through the state budget. Now, that last question of yours, which I think is most important. Whatever number I would say today, I would be wrong about the number of war refugees coming here and the capacity of our country. I would like to say this, and I may be a little too critical, but still, we already have over 20,000 refugees today, and I do not think that the Estonian state and government have done well with these 20,000 people. I think there are a lot of bottlenecks here, and I think these bottlenecks are getting worse with time when the number of these people is getting bigger. In fact, in a way, we have a border ahead of us today. This does not mean that we should now tell our good friends to the Ukrainians that we will no longer welcome you. We do, we always do. But we know that the capacity of the Estonian state must increase significantly in this respect. We can't handle some things today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U109	Henn Põllamaas, please! Henn Põllamaa order.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U110	Thank you. You did not answer my previous question that, if there is now a large number of cheap labour coming here and our number of unemployed is increasing, will it be predicted how much need for unemployment benefit will increase? The second question is that I have not seen any demographic impact analysis in the draft, which should necessarily be included in such a draft. A good colleague, Jaak Valge, pointed out statistically how Estonians will inevitably remain a minority in their own country, and this bill will accelerate this process further. Why is there no demographic analysis here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U111	Thank you. I do not understand where you read in this bill that after the adoption of this bill, like some gates open and cheap labour simply marches into Estonia. Well, it doesn't say that in this bill, and it won't be like that, I can promise you that. Now it's different. If you are talking about this impact analysis or some kind of demographic graph and study and a long in-depth analysis, here I say that it was possible in the Commission to ask officials all kinds of questions and to get answers. Of course, I, too, would have liked to have had more detailed and comprehensive answers on some matters. A question about the draft designer. I am indebted to the exact answer of the person who had been in the office of the Minister of the Interior at the time, who worked out this draft in 2020, but I think he also contributed to this draft so that it would become as meaningful as it is today. Today's government has tried to make this bill even better. These tests can always be done and more can be done, but something can already be decided on. I think that the explanatory memorandum to this draft, as well as everything else that was given us in the committee, has enough basis to decide whether or not to move forward with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U112	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U113	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You answered the questioner, "You don't know how it's possible that there's an increase in migrant labour." I can give you an example. To date, short-term work permits have been issued for 19000 years. According to this draft, it may be granted for a period of three years. Maybe multiply it by three, and you get about 60,000 people instead of 20,000. I'm asking you [again]. You didn't answer any of my questions before, and you said they were all lies. My question is simple. After the adoption of this bill, can the minimum wage be paid to refugees in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U114	Thank you. Mr Chef, in your previous speech you were not very polite, and I will only answer you if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U115	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U116	Thank you! Dear waitress, You mentioned earlier here that the purpose of this bill is to provide support for war refugees. I very much support the need to help war refugees in all ways. But I would remind you that because of the vaccination requirement in our country, which is essentially a forced vaccination, very many people in Estonia were released from work. Looking at these figures, the number of unemployed people and the number of jobs offered, the question arises of the support this bill gives to people in Estonia who are receiving a minimum wage or who have become unemployed precisely because they were released from work because of [no] vaccination, or who are simply unemployed because there has not been a suitable place. What support does this bill provide for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U117	Thank you. We must take into account that when the draft concerns labour and learning migration, we are, of course, not talking about people in Estonia, but about those who come here. With regard to your question of vaccination, I agree. In my opinion, too, we have learned quite a few lessons in the last two years as regards vaccination or non-vaccination of people, as well as the need for a corona pass. I think at some point it was a very important working document, but at some point it lost its topicality. I know that there are discussions in many places about whether those people who were released from work at some point could be taken back to the labour market today to the very places where they worked before. I really don't think we have any [new] good rescuers, policemen, defence forces overnight. The lack of their hands is great today. In the case of good specialists, the workers and employers must find some kind of broader compromise. Now I come to your question: will this bill help Estonians in Estonia in any way? I think that's enough. Just as I said, through the fact that we have more people on the labour market, our economy is growing more, and as a result of this, we will be able to pay people more social benefits, more pensions in the future. But perhaps the most important thing is [the possibility] of ensuring that Estonia has the capacity to pay people the pensions that people want to receive today, because we actually see that the lack of working hands and an ageing society are causing the problem that demand, in budgetary terms, pressure on pensions is still getting higher over the years, not less.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U118	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Tõnis! On the seventh page of paragraph 47, the expression "due to the military conflict which began on 24 February 2022' is added. This expression is both fundamentally and formally wrong, because the military conflict was already there before 24 February. [This year] On 24 February Russia and Belarus began the war against Ukraine, which is the largest in terms of scope, territory and intensity after World War II. We can no longer make any improvements here, but, as I said, it is not right in substance or form, and we should correct it. Do you agree with me or do you disagree that this alone is the reason why we should interrupt the second reading now and make these, both this and other substantive and formal improvements here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U120	Thank you. No, I'm not arguing about that. I didn't exactly find that wording in my file right now to read it again. But what you quoted, no, I'm not arguing against you here, and I agree with you. Now the question is whether this is the basis for stopping reading this bill. It is, as I understand it, the text of the explanatory memorandum, and it may not change the substance of the law in that sense. Once again, I think that here we agree with you that we want to help those people who have just come into Estonia to be war refugees from this Ukrainian-Russian conflict, where Russia has acted as an aggressor. That is, in fact, the purpose of this draft. The sentence you said when it was written somewhere, once again, yes, I agree with you, but I do not think it changes the substance of this draft as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U121	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Tõnis! You finally brought up the meaning of this law. As you said yourself, this bill is intended to bring more workers into our labour market. But here comes the question: how will this [draft] help society? I will remind you of the facts that have been said many times today. We have 45,000 unemployed and 7,000 jobs. Short-term workers come to us in the year 20000, without Ukraine. And now we're reducing the wage coefficients. We will reduce, not tighten: from 2.0 to 1.5 for top specialists, otherwise we will replace 0.8 for the current 1. You also said that the coefficient of 0.8 has something to do with Ukraine and regional balance. By the way, that connection doesn't come out one way or the other. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So, Tõnis, how does this law [the bill] help our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U123	Thank you. This 0.8 applies to war refugees and Ukrainian workers who have arrived here. It does not extend in any way to those from other countries. And once again, this 0.8 is sector-specific, or 0.8 in this sector. Your good colleague actually pointed out, in my opinion, this problem, which is, in fact, resolved by this [draft]. We have a lot of regions today where people in this sector outside the big cities cannot pay the average wage in this sector, but pay below the average. And I said that I think we also have regions where wages are paid at 0.8 in certain sectors today. In that case, we would still pay these people a higher salary than the people of Estonia who are working in this sector in this area today. All that math may be pretty multifaceted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U124	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U125	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1 (4) of this Act states that a foreign person admitted to a state-recognized primary school, upper secondary school, vocational training institution or higher education institution may be granted a short-term or long-term visa to take up his or her studies. Does anyone check that these people who have been granted a visa learn, and how often do they?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U126	Thank you. I say that today's control has not been sufficient in my opinion, and this, so to speak, point of law has certainly been abused by third-country nationals. In the future, as I said, when this bill is passed as a law, it will have to leave this country and return to his home country within 30 days after the completion of the study basis, i.e. when a person has been removed from the university or educational institution list. So this control mechanism is going to be much clearer and stronger, and as I have pointed out here in the presentation of this draft, here too, the PBA wants more work, more jobs, so that it is precisely the supervision of [the persons concerned] that can be done better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U127	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The government seems to me to be out of control here. You have in no way been able to point out how the government still guarantees that employers will not release local Estonian people from the mass work and hire foreign people with lower wages, in this case Ukrainians. Where's the guarantee anyway? Otherwise, we will soon see the people of Estonia moving to Finland as they become massively unemployed. In any case, this plan will damage the livelihood of the Estonian people and break families again; fathers must start working in Finland. What's the warranty? How does the government intend to guarantee that our people will not be released on a massive basis and employ cheaper workers on the basis of this same coefficient of 0.8?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U129	Thank you. As I said, this is my personal opinion, not the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I, too, see great risks in this coefficient. I hope that these risks will not materialise. The Ministry of the Interior has said that they will strengthen their supervision in this regard and somehow this moment of balance will arise. There is one argument that the Ministry of the Interior really raised, and here I agree with this argument. One thing is the regional balance that this coefficient of 0.8 allows. After all, we do not want all refugees who enter Estonia to be concentrated only in large cities, but we want them to be distributed as evenly as possible across Estonia. The other side is this... Well, let me give you a particular example. One company employs ten welders, all male. But the war refugees who come here are young mothers, women or older people, or underage children. Unfortunately, we do not find good hands with such qualifications among them. We have to take into account who the people are who are coming here today as a refugee of war. Full-time men have gone or stayed to defend their homeland; they do not come here to work in Estonia. They are the patriots of their homeland and defend their country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U130	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U131	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question still concerns the coefficient on which you have repeatedly emphasised that it only extends to the citizens of Ukraine and is sector-specific. I am not going to argue more about its impact here. But don't you think, and wasn't it discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is unconstitutional and discriminatory when it comes to national considerations? Also, not all Ukrainian refugees are Ukrainian citizens today, far from being, including citizens of other countries who lived permanently in Ukraine and so on, who arrive here and will not be extended to them if it is based on Ukrainian citizens. And you failed to mention the fact that 0.8 also applies in Tallinn, for example, where the average wage is well above the average when we compare with the Estonian average, and it allows us to use the so-called cheap labour opportunity, so that we can apply the slave market, which is currently extremely unethical. All these risks and the misconception of the Constitution, were there any discussions on these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U132	Thank you. As I said, we had a lot of discussion on this coefficient of 0,8 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In my previous reply, I stressed that I too see the dangers. Returning to it, I understand that it is applied only to war refugees who have arrived here, who are Ukrainian citizens. When citizens of third countries or other countries were present in Ukraine, they do not, in a classical sense, count as war refugees, but are still able to move to their home country, where they are safe today. For example, the people of Estonia who were in Ukraine and [now] are arriving in Estonia, and they do not automatically sign a letter of war. They are still citizens of the Estonian state and are subject to the laws and guarantee systems of the Estonian state. Now this 0.8 and 1 or some other coefficient. This regional measure has been on the table all along. I say once again that it seems to me to be adequate in this sense that we are really talking about sectors, there are jobs where even outside Tallinn there are no payments for sector 0.8 today, but paid, I do not know, 0.7 or 0.6, so in that sense he is perhaps even a job with higher pay in this region. But I admit that in Tallinn, the threat remains. However, here I also see that the competition between companies for good workers is [sufficiently high], that it is not so easy for them to pay a lower salary. Competition for good hands may be getting bigger. It is obvious that if you have very good employees today, you will not let them go and will not take the worst employees out of the way with a factor of 0.8, because point one, the worst employees no company wants, and point two, these workers are simply nowhere to be taken today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U133	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Tõnis! I don't agree with you. This quote I read is from § 30914, directly from the bill. We cannot make such important formal mistakes. First of all, we don't admit here that it's a war, it's a formal mistake. The substantive error that comes later and many colleagues have spoken about is the same coefficient of 0.8. How can we treat Ukrainian citizens who have escaped the war here in this way? There are both substantive and formal issues here, which is why we should agree with me, isn't it? just interrupt the second reading of this draft immediately and fix it, because we can no longer make any improvements here. On page seven of the draft is what I quoted, paragraph 47 and § 30914, the [first] sentence in which it is "subscribed by a military conflict'. This conflict has been going on there since 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U135	Yeah, like I said, I'm not arguing that you're right about that. You are also right in this sense that, as far as I know, there will be no further amendments to the draft, unless the draft is interrupted at second reading. I know that partial editorial changes can be made between second and third readings, but I do not think that you refer to them here. I'll leave this remote after I answer the questions, and then I'll be able to discuss this issue once, how the political groups will see it. Once again, as Parliament of the Riigikogu, I believe that there has been a very clear and unambiguous consensus in various statements. The question of whether, with the text of this draft, we are in any way questioning the statements that we have previously adopted, I think, no. But really, yes, this wording may not be the best and most correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U136	The procedure, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U137	Listen, this is a very fundamental problem. It is true that this was not raised in the Commission's debate; it was not noticed. But this is essentially a thought crime when we say that the military conflict in Ukraine began on 24 February 2022. Of course, between two readings, the Commission cannot technically resolve this by changing the text. I am categorically opposed to this ideological rhetoric of letting the back of Ukraine on the level of Estonian law. President-in-Office, how do we solve this problem? We have to have an answer. It is completely inappropriate to process this text here alone. We understand why the coalition wants to vote these things through, but the current situation is of unprecedented weight. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada approached us, and we are taking a rhetorical view that the military conflict, rather than the 'Russian war on aggression against Ukraine', had begun on 24 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U138	Well, procedurally, there is a simple solution here that we can use, it is to interrupt reading the draft and make the necessary corrections to the draft text or the explanatory memorandum. I understand that this proposal has come from the Isamaa Group. We will certainly vote on this once negotiations have been held and the amendments have been examined. But another procedural way to draw attention to all of this is [to do this] during the negotiations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U139	Thank you. Yeah, I can't believe we're handling this bill here. This essentially means that the Estonian Parliament will adopt a law in which it will deny military action before 24 February 2022, i.e. we say that there has never been a war between Ukraine and Russia in 2014. It's unthinkable for us to accept it. But I would like to draw the President's attention within the procedural framework to the fact that, in addition to the possibility to interrupt [reading], the initiator will always be able to withdraw the draft. So there's a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U140	Yeah, definitely. By the originator, I can't take a stand. The initiator is the Government of the Republic. True, the government has changed since then. The government that initiated this draft is long gone, and the new government has fundamentally changed this draft very much. But the Board of the Riigikogu is not the initiator. Is Urmas Reinsalu back to procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U141	Yeah. Thank you. We have adopted a decision in Parliament and we have clearly defined this as the legal position of the Estonian state in international relations, that this is a war of aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. And now, at the same time, on the proposal of the government, the situation has been defined that a military conflict has begun in Ukraine, which actually means that there is a civil war in Ukraine. The military conflict that began in Ukraine! After all, it started because of external military force, intervention, a war between Russia and Ukraine, not a military conflict that started in Ukraine. The processing of a text with this emphasis is a disgrace to the Estonian Parliament and such a brief approach, Mr President, that we may draw attention to it during the negotiations is unthinkable. I have a very simple proposal. The President of Parliament is currently taking a half-hour break, consulting other members of the Bureau, consulting the representatives of the Government who have tabled this draft and these amendments, and we find a solution that we will not proceed with this text in this form. This is a concrete proposal: to take the chairman's break, to summarise the board, to take the representatives of the government, and to leave the logic contained in the text, that we are talking about the civil war in Ukraine, which started on 24 February 2022, this disgraceful rhetoric, aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U142	Sweet Urmas! It's not like a party is doing something here, and everyone else has to be ashamed. It is still the initiator and the author of the text who must be ashamed if they must be. We, the rest of us, can draw attention to this. The Board of the Riigikogu cannot just interrupt this procedure. There will be a meeting of the Riigikogu Management Board after the meeting today. I am absolutely convinced that by then the second reading will not be finished, and I will certainly take this issue up at the Bureau meeting. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U143	Thank you, good vice chairman. My question is when a very important technical failure emerges during the procedure, which calls into question our international competence. Right now, you're suggesting we don't have that lever. Can you tell us what these obstacles are, why the new management board elected by the Riigikogu cannot give it its own assessment? I think there may be a consensus here, because I am sure that neither the Reform Party nor the Central Party's ambassadors will see a bigger problem than this, because they need to deal with this as a matter of urgency. But later, we're still in a major international scandal. Well, maybe it's not that big, and maybe we can keep it quiet, but in the face of shame, we're gonna have to go around for a couple of years. What are the main obstacles why the Board of the Riigikogu cannot intervene despite noticing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U144	Our Rules of Procedure are still the main thing. The Rules of Procedure shall provide for the handling of drafts. If there are substantive or formal errors or major political differences in the drafts, our Rules of Procedure shall lay down the procedure. True, the Rules of Procedure are not perfect, there is inflexibility inside, and that is knowingly the case. But I'll stick to what I've told you. [[A voice from the hall.]] Objections to the content of the draft can be raised both through questions and during the round of negotiations. Following that, there is a proposal for interruption. Either there will be or there will be no third reading or there will be or there will be no processing of draft amendments. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U145	The relations in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, which supported the sending of this draft to second reading and who did not, developed during the vote in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. There is nothing formally to blame for this; it was a decision made by the majority, as always the parliamentary bodies reach a position. But I have a question: such a formulation that 'the military conflict in Ukraine started on 24 February 2022' be what was the position of the members of the Bureau and the vote [the result] to include such a text on Parliament's agenda during this working week? And I have a question [also specifically] for you, Mr President of the sitting. What is your position as President in this unprecedented situation? Is the [draft] formulation of the beginning of the military conflict in Ukraine on 24 February competent in the context of Russia's military aggression in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U146	First of all, you know that the board doesn't deal with the substantive revision of the drafts. That is why we have committees. The committees will send us their procedural decisions by Thursday afternoon so that we can set up the agenda for the next working week. [Content] texts do not even come by this time, the content did not come to us until Friday, so the Bureau had not even seen them at the time the agenda was made. I can give an assessment of the substance when we are going to vote on the proposal for an interruption. From this remote point of view, I will still try to direct the meeting in terms of procedure and impartiality. My assessment of this law is visible when we vote. Alar Laneman, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U147	Thank you, Mr President. The Riigikogu has made its assessment, and has also adopted two statements. However, I think we have an emergency situation here, which I do not think is a good solution in our current Home and Working Procedures Act. So I think there's got to be some way to improvise. Because what's happened now? This wording is one in line with the Kremlin's points of view and therefore undoubtedly falls within the category of hybrid war. Whether he is created there by chance or knowingly, in any case, we do not have any solution or procedure in our home and operating procedures. However, in view of the exceptional circumstances of the situation, would it be possible to take a break, consult with the board and also with representatives of the government, in order to put an end to this embarrassing situation, that we continue to debate the points of the Kremlin, [about this,] could they be in our bill or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U148	On the basis of a certain experience, I can say that this break will not help us now, and I will stick to the fact that the solution will arrive very soon as we come to the vote on the proposal for interruption. All Riigikogu ambassadors can take the initiative and go talk to their colleagues. That stupidities or things that are really bad happen to us all the time. That is why we are now able to vote on the amendments here. And if it turns out that the amendments tabled so far are not sufficient, then it is possible to interrupt the second reading and to make a second round of amendments. That's the procedure. I believe that the arguments put forward here under procedural questions are, in fact, influential arguments for coalition ambassadors as well. Henn Põljaasa is also a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U149	Yes, thank you! Indeed, the government's view that Ukraine is only a simple military conflict is scandalous and can very deeply damage our relations with Ukraine. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the speaker did not answer either of my questions, even if I repeated it on the second question. I know that I myself have been sitting in the Speaker's office on the board, that the speaker or the President cannot put words to the speaker. However, he can make a comment, but he can ask him to answer the questions in substance rather than to spin. And in this respect, Mr President-in-Office, I would really like to put it to your heart that you make a comment to the respondent, because we still have a number of people who have the opportunity to ask questions, and I hope that at least they will have a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U150	Thank you. I still agree that the questions must be specific, precise and understandable, and the answers to them must also be specific, precise and understandable. It is also governed by our Home and Working Procedures Act, and if this is not followed, I will make a remark. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U151	Thank you, Mr President. In general, we are governed by certain rules in this Chamber. Let me give you the most trivial example of this. If we submit a bill, it must be signed either digitally or with a ballpoint pen. But that's not our only rule. If there is no signature, the draft shall simply not be accepted, and the President shall settle this matter immediately upon receipt of the draft. In the process of working on today's draft, I have noticed very significant shortcomings, which I also drew attention to in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In particular, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved, by decision No 136 of 27 December 2011, the "Rule of Standards for Drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu," which has subsequently been amended by Decision No 70 of 10 April 2014 of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The name of this legislation is 'the regulation of the regulations of the drafts to be dealt with by the Riigikogu', which means that when we deal with all the drafts, we must comply with the rules of that code in an inconsistency. Go on. Paragraph 1 (6) of the same rule states nicely that the draft and explanatory memorandum to be submitted shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the rule. We are bound by the requirements of this regulation when dealing with all the drafts. I noted this fact, which I also pointed out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, that § 46 (1) of that rule states that [that, as regards the explanatory memorandum], the "effects of the law" will be explained by the various [effects] expected to arise from the implementation of the law. For example, point 1 states that it must describe social and, I emphasise, including demographic impact. Unfortunately, there is no reference in the explanatory memorandum to the demographic impact of this legislation on the Estonian people. There is also a very controversial example of [§ 46 (1) of the Code]: the impact on national security and external relations. At one point, it is said that the change has a positive impact on Estonian internal security in the long term, and then it says that it is nevertheless positive, although the Defence Police has highlighted in their Yearbook the danger that represents the emergence of communities with a significantly different religious and cultural background in the Estonian cultural space, which in turn cause ethnic conflicts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U152	Kalle, get to the point!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U153	Yeah, now. I will, of course, now say in a slightly accelerated form that there is no analysis of the impact on the living and natural environment, no impact [analysis] on regional development in the implementation of this law, although the positive and negative effects of possible solutions on these circumstances should be described. To sum up this long story, I want to say that we cannot deal with this draft at the moment because it does not meet the technical requirements: we are discussing a matter whose impact analysis is not set out in the explanatory memorandum. This draft should be excluded from the procedure. The Bureau has the right to do so because, as in the case of a signature: if it does not exist, it will not accept. These shortcomings are such that we cannot continue to deal with this draft at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U154	Thank you. I am, of course, familiar with our norm protocol, not to the last decimal place, but indeed, I have been working on this document. And I agree with that criticism. In the case of impact assessments, a great deal is done, in fact, the norm is not followed by the [claim] for the submission of impact assessments. The problem is that when the draft was brought here, the draft was initiated, then the original draft had impact assessments. However, this draft has changed radically in the course of the procedure, i.e. in the second reading, and no impact assessments have been carried out on these changes. This means that what you proposed so that we do not accept this [draft] at all, because it is not correctly He was accepted when he was properly drafted. The next one to deal with this is the Commission, which says that we cannot go on with it. We cannot stop reading the second reading because the effects have not been sufficiently evaluated. Also, there has often been a lack of proper implementation of this particular draft, perhaps not. But it is all up to the Commission. If the Commission considers that these effects have been adequately or adequately described and sends the draft to the second reading of the hall, the hall can point out that the Commission has actually done a Haltura. Paul Woodland, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U155	Yeah, it's procedural. Thank you, Mr President, for the answer that has now been given to Mr Grünthal. As a Member of the Commission, I can say that these shortcomings were also referred to in the Commission and were also proposed for interruption, but the liberal wing of the Commission did not respond to this proposal. But my procedural [question] is now specifically due to the fact that this bill is very close to me personally, since when this bill came, I was head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This concerns me very personally in this sense, all the more so as it is now clearly established that there are Kremlin points inside. I wouldn't want to get involved in any way with the Kremlin's points of discussion, and that's why the idea that interruption could come naturally. Of course, any self-respecting Member of Parliament could join. However, in advance, in order to prevent this embarrassing situation, perhaps the Bureau could take a short break and ask the heads of the Commission, perhaps they have an idea or plan to make an emergency meeting quickly and to make it cancel through the Commission. That's how we get out of this awkward situation. It would really take a brief Bureau break to contact the Commission's leaders and ask if they have a plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U156	Yeah, that's the possibility the Commission has. Today, when we have a meeting, there will be a committee meeting. During today's [plenary] session, we will certainly not finish the negotiations. And even if we do get to the end, we will not get to the vote to cut off [reading], because before we have to vote on the amendments. So, before tomorrow's meeting, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where this issue can be addressed. I don't think it would give us anything now if I took a break in the sitting to try to get a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs an hour before the usual session. Henn Fieldace, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have two procedural issues that I would like to highlight right now. One is that our Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that all reports, including those made by the Commission, will be made from that platform, which is currently empty. The rapporteur for this draft, Mr Mölder, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has left and it is therefore not possible to continue this sitting because there is no rapporteur. Even if the waitress should show up and come to the speaker's desk, she has actually already stopped reading the bill by leaving the remote. There is also the possibility that perhaps he is really weak and tired of these long questions and of reporting on this subject, which, unfortunately, we do not absolutely agree with, because we have not received any substantive answers. One possibility is that the chair is currently interrupting the sitting because there is no rapporteur. Another possibility is that the [Chairman] will announce a break and give him the opportunity to gather and rest, and we can all continue refreshed. But this issue has to be resolved. It doesn't work out that the waitress just showed up. The second question that I have is also based entirely on our Home and Working Procedures Act, which I happen to be familiar with. It is not stipulated that a member of the Riigikogu should come to the board during the presentation and talk about how to respond. We all saw Hanno Pevkur, vice-president of the Reform Party, come to the waitress's office and they studied these papers and said something to each other. This is a gross violation of the rules of procedure and of the house, which cannot simply be wiped under the carpet. So there is an urgent need to find a solution on this issue as well. The solution could probably arise on the board. I still propose that the President-in-Office suspend this session or take a break, convene the Bureau and discuss and resolve these problems, because we cannot be sure that, if a precedent has been established, this opportunity will not be abused in the future. The waitress's just leaving the remote! We have to sit here and watch and wonder. Or they go to give him advice on how to respond to someone and how to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U158	I have to admit, the waitress asked [for permission to leave me] and we agreed that as long as we process the procedure, she would sit down for a moment because she's been standing here for two and a half hours straight. If we'd known it was a protest, maybe we wouldn't have agreed to this. But he didn't leave the hall, so we didn't have the impossible procedure. Indeed, perhaps it would have been right to take a three-minute break for a person to have a biological resting moment. The more serious problem, of course, is that the report was either interrupted or advised. It should not be allowed to happen that if someone is answering questions or giving a speech, someone next to him is saying something. It interferes with the waitress, and it interferes with the audience. I'll make sure it doesn't happen again. Kalle Grünthal also has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U159	Thank you, Mr President. When I spoke earlier about this Riigikogu regulations, I heard the sentence that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a Haltura. [This claim] was based in principle on the fact that the rules on the regulation of drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu were not respected. The point now is that § 13 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure provides for the functions of the Riigikogu Board. Point 10 of this section, yes, point 10 of the second paragraph, specifically states that the Board of the Riigikogu lays down the technical rules for the drafts. We must follow these rules. Now, however, there is a situation where basically it is known that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a haltura, but we in the Riigikogu have to continue to process this haltuura and we have no other way to change this matter. I think it is. The question is that if there is a haltuura, it must not end with this haltuura, because the Commission is still a lower-level unit here in the Riigikogu, if there is a basic composition of the Riigikogu. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on procedural issues not covered by this Act or by any other law, as directed by § 13 (2) 18 of the Rules of Procedure Act. By this I would like to point out that, since there is no regulation, there is no regulation, there is no regulation, it is in fact the competence of the Bureau to resolve this issue. I propose that the board take a break and discuss this matter with one another, because it is clearly not acceptable to do so in the Riigikogu, and this is where the Riigikogu Board should resolve this issue itself, because it is not regulated by the procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U160	I disagree. I maintain that this [situation] is governed by this law and procedures. It is a question of whether this rule, which is regulated by procedures, has been followed with sufficient care. However, I will stick to what I have said from the outset: in order to improve the draft, it is possible to interrupt the draft and then to start proposing amendments and amendments again. This procedure is still ahead of us. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U161	Thank you, Mr President. It is possible that those members of the government coalition who have legal competence and who are familiar with this could perhaps really understand that this needs to be done in advance. Because otherwise, if there is a proposal for interruption, it is simply taken in a world-view. There are few of them here now, no Hanno Pevkur we know, because of his things we have even gone to court and been reprimanded from there, he does not have that competence. But we also have so-called experts of international law here who, at every possible moment, chirp like birds. At this point, I've seen that most of them were at the diner calmly listening to the radio, they're not aware that we've discovered a pretty big problem here. This means that perhaps we could get this cross-party consensus much better if we took a break. Then there will be a debate about what [the problem] is, and it turns out that is actually such a big thing, not a win of the opposition. You yourself referred to the reasons for which a recess can be made, for example, if there are significant errors in the bill, you have read [it]. I think that's a good enough argument, and you could take a break. I also proposed a solution that would be cross-party, so that no one would point the finger.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, we can take a break right now. Our meeting today is scheduled to last until 1 p.m., 1 p.m., but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote in the Riigikogu for an extension to 14 o'clock. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U163	I have a proposal to take a ten-minute break before the vote. That's why I put in the procedure, otherwise I would have gone to the end of the questioners' line, and you wouldn't have figured it out. So I have a proposal on behalf of the Isamaa Group to take a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U164	You see, and the break came like a fluffy one. Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U165	We have received a [proposal]; we must vote on the proposal made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Excuse me, Tarmo Kruusimäe, do you have a procedure for voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U166	It's about our procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U167	I shall put the [extension of the session] to the vote first, and then we shall proceed with procedural questions and debate. Please take a position on the extension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U168	It is now the case that 20 Members are in favour of extending the sitting, with 29 abstentions against extending the sitting. The sitting shall not be renewed. Our trial will continue for more than ten minutes today. So let's continue the procedural questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U169	Thank you, Mr President. I ask whether the procedures allow the President of the sitting to present the problem that has arisen during the sitting to those ambassadors who have now come to this Chamber for this extension. Obviously, they have not all been in their work offices, perhaps, but have met voters or catering facilities. In the case of right and good, high-quality legislation, does our home and operating procedures give us the opportunity to present to the ambassadors that we have in the meantime encountered quite important problems in our legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U170	Well, usually before we vote, we introduce what we vote on and why we vote. In addition, we assume that those ambassadors who are not sitting in this Chamber will be able to watch [the hearing] in their rooms or by means of a smart device. Some may indeed be in a cafeteria, where it is also possible to observe the hearing, and some may even be on taxi rides, from which the hearing can be monitored. That is why we took a ten-minute break so that the political groups could shape their position on the vote. And as you saw, you did. That was the result of the vote. Kalle Grünthal, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U171	Thank you, Mr President. I am still interested in the question that, if the Haltuura of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs finds proof in this Chamber, it is possible to apply any levers to the leaders of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who have passed through such a ditch.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U172	Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to initiate a mistrust of the Bureau of the Committee. To do so, of course, the voices must be together. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U173	Honorable President! In a situation where the text of the draft proposed by the government and supported by the majority of the Commission contains a structure that clearly defines the position of the Republic of Estonia at law level according to the logic of international law, according to which the Russian-Ukraine war is a conflict that started in Ukraine on 24 February this year, I think we need clarity, emergency clarity. I call on the President to give the rapporteur the opportunity to clearly define this constitutional position in the current unprecedented situation, so that we can at least have the rapporteur's comment at the hearing. We need to do this. This is a very serious and critical situation where we have come into unwittingly or intentionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U174	Once the procedural [questions] are over, the word will go back to the rapporteur and he will certainly be able to comment on this subject, although his main task here at second reading, as we all know, is to reflect the discussions in the Commission. Since this [the subject] has been discussed several times in the Commission, the discussions to be reflected are substantial. Priit Onion has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U175	Thank you. The rapporteur shall not be prevented from expressing an opinion which was not discussed in the Commission. In any case, it would make sense to do so if it were possible to do so at all times, but it is not the same as Urmas Reinsalu asked. But I have a request for the meeting manager. You called for a violation of the law, because if someone is watching this trial while driving a taxi, it is actually a violation and it is not wise to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U176	You can watch the radio, you can listen to the radio. No, I didn't invite anyone to touch the smart device while he's driving. This really must not be done in Estonia. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U177	Thank you, Mr President. I saw this debate, a debate, where Leo Kunnas referred to this [problematic wording] and the rapporteur first thought that it was an explanatory memorandum. Leo referred again and said that [it] is still in [the draft] section. In my opinion, the Commission rapporteur has already made a very precise assessment so that this matter needs to be corrected. Have I misunderstood that this is in principle a reason [to interrupt reading] if the Commission's rapporteur acknowledges that we have a pretty important mistake, or should we, as ambassadors, begin some procedure that is available to us under the working and working rules, even though he is not as flexible as he might be? I want to stress that there must be order in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U178	Yeah. The ambassadors of the Fatherland are also represented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the meeting will be held at two o'clock and the topic will be raised and proposals made. The Commission itself can make the relevant proposals in the procedure, can stop reading itself, can vote there. So we all have those opportunities. Peter Ernitsa has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U179	Good manager! I'm concerned when we can start discussing Wednesday's menu, voting on the first item, Bill No 506. Do you have any idea when it'll be on our desk? Tomorrow night or night?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U180	Oh, that's the problem. We can, of course, calculate here that if we have 30 amendments and their [vote] intervals... 21 [amendment]? That's how rational it is! That means about four hours or less. If there are calls, say, four calls is one hour and since the hearing starts tomorrow at 2:00, I think we'll be somewhere around 6:00 tomorrow night, here and there for a couple of hours. Kalle Grünthal, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U181	Thank you. I have a similar problem, like Peter Ernitsa. The point is that when we discussed the adoption of the agenda here on Thursday, the question arose that why an important issue such as the presentation by the Minister for Defence in 2022 on the implementation of the state's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2030" as a rapporteur for the defence minister Kalle Laane has been put on a Thursday day. This is a very important item on the agenda, and now I see that there may be a situation that we cannot discuss the fourth point on Thursday, because simply the time limit does not allow it. The question now is that Minister Kalle Laanet had the only opportunity to come and talk to us about this very day and at this hour. So what happens now? It's a very serious question, it'd be necessary to move around somehow. Is it possible to move Kalle Laanet to another day here, which would require, of course, once again, a proposal to change the agenda and vote on it, making contact with the Minister of Defence? How can we resolve this situation now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U182	Yeah. First of all, we discussed this on Monday, it seemed to me that you said 'Thursday', but once we have approved the agenda, this agenda can no longer be changed. If we run around our agenda and on Thursday at one o'clock or, in the case of an extension at two o'clock, we have not been able to deal with it, because of the inability of the procedure, this item will fall short of this week's agenda, and the Bureau will most likely put it on the agenda for next week. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U183	Yeah, I have a procedure. I do not share the concerns of the two previous procedural questions. It's not like this at all. But I want to refer to what you said that [can be] four speeches. Does this mean that we now have a significantly limited number of speeches at second reading? In my opinion, every Riigikogu representative at second reading can express his or her opinion within five minutes and, if he or she does not get the idea started, always take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U184	Yeah. I drew attention to how we calculate this step: about four or five calls per hour. Depends, if [fast] the remote control is reached and so on, and if extra time is taken, then of course there are fewer [calls], and if not, more calls will fit. Indeed, if 101 members of the Riigikogu wanted to give a speech, and they all have this opportunity, we would be talking here until Thursday morning. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U185	I have repeatedly stressed and asked the rapporteur to give an answer; unfortunately, the rapporteur has not given that answer. The question is, what is the position of the rapporteur in the logic of international war law: what is the difference between military conflict and war? Secondly, [there is a question] when the war actually started in Ukraine. And thirdly, is the waitress of the opinion that this is a war between Russia and Ukraine, or Russia's attack on Ukraine, and when did it start, or is it a military conflict in Ukraine? Such rhetoric is, unfortunately, used by some in this conflict, by forces that are not friendly to us. In view of the exceptional nature of the situation, I ask the President of the sitting to give the rapporteur the opportunity, without delay, to resolve this matter and to give an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-03-22_U186	The President of the sitting can no longer give any opportunity. According to the Rules of Procedure, 29 seconds ago our [session] ended, and exactly where he left off, we'll pick up tomorrow at 2:00. Then I'm sure you'll get the answer. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned.
