ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good members of the government! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the February 23rd briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence. I'll stop the presence check. I understand that one member of the Riigikogu does not work, so this verification of presence does not count. Are you trying to move your card for a second? Okay, looks like the map's working. Good colleagues, we'll have a briefing check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U2	Looks like it worked now. 29 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 72 are missing. I thank those members of the Riigikogu who gave good advice on how the system would work again. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. As usual, there are two minutes to ask and three minutes to answer. The members of the Riigikogu have really been very active and have submitted 17 topics to ask about. So I have a huge request that we make a part of the questions so that there is one supplementary question and one additional question from the floor. Let's start with a traditionally interesting heading like procedural questions. And the question is Henn in the field. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The briefings and enquiries of recent weeks to Kaja Kallas have convincingly shown that asking questions to the Prime Minister does not fulfil its purpose. There are simply no answers to the questions. Instead, the Prime Minister has taken the attitude of a ruler with regard to members of the Riigikogu, who has the right to squeal, insult, mock and spread them with accusations that do not conform to the truth. For example, he has repeatedly associated our party with demonstrations that we have not organised and with incidents with which we have no concern whatsoever. The Prime Minister uses the Riigikogu's remote control to spread lies, as if the previous government had raised excises and banned demonstrations during the first corona wave. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is unacceptable to us that Kaja Kallas deals with unfounded accusations and lies in his non-qualifying lectures. It is unacceptable for us that the Prime Minister takes...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U4	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U5	... the right to chastise and reject a large part of Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U6	A good procedural questioner! What is your procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U7	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U8	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U9	Therefore, in today's Question Time, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia decided to withdraw its questions and to protest against the behaviour of Kaja Kallas to leave Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U10	Thank you. So, let's go to today's questions, also based on what the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Henn Põlluaas said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U11	The first member of the Riigikogu asks Helir-Valdor Seeder, answers the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the Government of the Republic, and the topic is problems in the field of education. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns the confusion around the final exams in comprehensive school. As we know, the chaos of the exam and the so-called threshold has existed for several years, and not at all because of the corona. Education ministers juggle with the abolition or compulsory nature of exams, students, teachers, parents, schoolteachers are confused and ignorant, there is uncertainty. Now Minister of Education Liina Kersna has come up with the idea that the exams will remain, but the thresholds will disappear. It's all about coming to the exam, and the exam has been passed. According to the Minister, national standards do not motivate learning, but the biggest motivation is the abolition of claims. That is exactly what the Minister replied to the inquiry this Monday. But the abolition of thresholds also removes the requirements for the Estonian language examination in Russian schools. I am different from the Minister of Education, and I think that this is not a good idea, rather it is a completely bad idea and it also worsens the transition to the Estonian education system. My question is: why does the Minister of the Reform Party wish to abolish the Estonian language examination in Russian schools? And does the Reform Party also intend to abolish the requirements of the Estonian language examination for citizenship? Because, as the Minister of Education said, state requirements do not motivate learning. The Minister of Education was unable to answer the second question the day before yesterday. I have a request that you focus on answering my question, not on doing or not doing previous governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U14	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Education and Science very much. Liina Kersna is first of all educated, and she really devotes a great deal to the field of education. At times, as head of government, I watch as he puts all his soul and strength in it and how he endures under this burden. But in any case, it is someone who knows the subject, who communicates very closely with professionals and experts and takes his work very, very seriously. So I am very, very grateful for his work. Now, regarding your question. It seemed to me that there was such a concern that I was going to talk about your own actions, but I am not talking about them, but I am going to answer the question. First of all, comprehensive school finals remain mandatory. The question, after all, is how the examinations are assessed: whether there is a grade or a certain percentage, which specifically concerns the degree of the graduate. In percentage terms, this is much better than in grade. Now, your separate question, which was about the language of the state. I believe that the interest of all of us is that young people in Estonia can speak Estonian at the best possible level. We see that it is harder for people who do not speak Estonian to find a job in Estonia, harder to find a well paid job, and therefore the ability of the Estonian language in Estonia is not only a question of the survival of the Estonian language and culture, but it is actually a question of the functioning of our economy, because we know that we need working hands everywhere. Currently, the threshold for completing the comprehensive school final examination is three, but the language skills of comprehensive school graduates are less than we want. The Ministry of Education and Research has presented this proposal to its partners for discussion. We cannot first speak in a specific way, but we can talk about changing the way we assess it. The interest of all of us should be to learn the language. How to assess it is already a second-rate question, but I can answer that by answering the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U15	And now the point to be clarified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U16	Thank you. Well, I would, of course, have asked about the state of funding for higher education and the administrative agreements, because these [contracts] have not been concluded, and [about] why the government has not made use of the opportunity to put forward an additional budget if it were, for example, one option, or why we did not support an amendment to this year's budget that would have resolved the situation, or that, analogous to defence expenditure, a political cabinet decision could be taken to give confidence to universities this year in order to conclude these agreements. But let us return to the first question, because you really could not concentrate entirely on this answer. Well, just because it makes more sense to measure the knowledge and skills of middle school graduates than to keep the threshold, my logic does say that one doesn't rule out the other. Percentages of skills and knowledge can also be measured in such a way that the threshold is maintained and the requirements are maintained and the national standard is maintained, one does not exclude the other. So I don't understand why you're answering them. And yet I believe that these requirements, on the contrary, motivate students to work harder, motivate them to learn. In essence, losing the threshold still means that the requirement is lost in Russian schools and it is only enough to attend the exam, and I do not understand how it improves the quality and skills of Estonian language learning. But I will also ask you why you are not able to solve this problem of higher education and administrative contracts. And coming back to the first question: what about the examination of Estonian for citizenship? It was not answered by the Minister of Education, nor by you now. After all, there should also be an end to the threshold and requirements, because it motivates you to learn better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U17	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U18	Thank you. I'll start at the other end. To obtain citizenship, it is important that a person, firstly, wants to apply for this citizenship, and secondly, he or she passes the Estonian language exam and then also the knowledge of the Constitution [exam]. Now, for him to gain citizenship, it must certainly be clear that a person can speak that language. And I think it is crucial in a small country, as we are in the context of the fact that about one million people worldwide speak Estonian, so that language skills are still asked when granting citizenship. Now, come to this [question]. After all, the threshold has not been a magic wand to ensure language skills. If you look at numbers purely, in 2018 the threshold was not exceeded in Estonian as a second language, the threshold is 50%, i.e. the grade is three to 23% of primary school graduates and 20% of primary school graduates in 2019. So it is the task of the state to intervene when it can be seen that Estonian language learning has not been effective enough. I think the important difference is that, for example, if you get a grade of three, either you can speak 50% of the language or this language skills are higher. The language is still taught over the years. Further evaluation will also take place at different levels. What's important is that we don't find out at the end of junior high! the student has not learned the language, but could intervene when needed, perhaps in the course of learning the language. More accurate assessment will give all parties a better understanding of the student level. For example, student assessment does not take place at the end of the ninth grade, but is ongoing throughout comprehensive school. In the fourth and seventh grades, the level of the Estonian language as a second language will be performed at the A1 and A2 language levels, which will provide feedback to both students and teachers on how the student's language skills and language skills have progressed in all these skills. Such information can be used by a teacher to improve learning. The goal of all of us should be that the student learns the Estonian language; he can go on to study in Estonian; he can also go on to study at university or to work and he has the necessary level of proficiency in Estonian. That's what we all do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U19	And now one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U20	Thank you. Prime Minister! On the same subject. It seems that the issue is being dealt with in the middle of the academic year, a few months before taking the exams, which is not really the most acute and most important in the field of education. Very much expectation is placed on teachers in particular that they should motivate children, they should raise a self-governing student, they should contribute and so on and so on and so forth, but in fact we have not solved teachers' concerns first. We still have a problem with the pay of teachers, we still have a problem with the follow-up of teachers, we still have a problem with the burden of teachers, with the learning environment, with the support specialists and with the whole system, which should create these conditions for the child to become a self-leading student so that the child is motivated. Maybe someday we'll really get to the fact that the exams aren't necessary. But actually losing the threshold is losing the mind of the exam because writing your name on the exam page doesn't mean you've passed the ninth grade final. Why do you think that the Ministry of Education today, rather than addressing the most burning problems of teachers being in school at all, is engaged in the reform of exams, where there is no consensus or agreement among scientists, neither among teachers nor among school leaders, among politicians or among [members of the Reform Party] themselves? Where are they running? Why did it get so busy this year, in the middle of the academic year? Can you explain the behavior of your colleague and partymate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U21	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U22	Thank you. Firstly, I stress once again that the Ministry of Education and Research has initiated this debate. If you say there is no consensus, how can we know if there is consensus if we do not discuss it with experts in the field. As I said, these concerns relate to the fact that the level of language teaching has not been such as to enable students, children, to learn the language sufficiently. I find the idea and purpose very noble: how can we change the system so that children can learn the language? As I said, the evaluation will take place over the years. If you always have [deficiencies] in subjects, for example, you have not received an adequate grade, and eventually pass the exam, then you will not have any more language skills. If the child's language skills are shown to be below the required standards, he or she can be provided with assistance on an ongoing basis. I very much agree with you on what you said that there are a number of burning problems in education. It is. And the Minister of Education and Science is dealing with these burning problems. I absolutely agree that the pay of teachers is a problem. Thanks to the fact that the Minister of Education and Science really fought very hard for this, we were able to raise teachers' salaries. All the additional support services that students need, we have also dealt with them. Here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, when we were in opposition, we also stood for school psychologists to have funding and support services. Indeed, all these burning problems remain, just as they are still on all the different issues. So that doesn't mean that if you're dealing with one problem, you don't have to deal with another problem if you can find solutions. Of course, if the general consensus is that one or the other idea does not make sense, then these ideas do not have to go on. But we will only know that if we consult experts, we will do these rounds, we will have discussions where the various bottlenecks will come out and they will be able to react.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U24	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo, and the subject is the implementation of the coalition agreement. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As far as I know, you are responsible for equal opportunities and equal treatment on the issues of the Ministry of Social Affairs. And there's also a very nice sentence in the coalition agreement about it. The Reform Party and the Centre Party have agreed and say so, I quote: "We guarantee equal treatment and protection of discrimination across sectors. " A very nice sentence, I could sign it myself. And I'm sure you were very happy to have such a sentence in the coalition agreement. This gave you, as Minister for Social Protection, the assurance that a level playing field and protection against discrimination will be ensured across sectors. But what do we see? We see the Media Services Act, which introduces opportunities to encourage hatred, anger and discrimination in the provision of media services. What do we see? We see the Family Benefits Act, where the social guarantees of registered partners have been removed from the entire law at Commission level. We see that at the moment, including you, the entire government, you go along with extortion of the EKRE and submit to their blackmail in order for such things to come into the law. A few days ago, I asked you how you felt about your partymates voting for such a clause in the Media Services Act. You said you didn't want to answer that question. How do you feel that you will be able to implement this coalition clause in your area if your colleagues, your party associates, are acting completely in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U26	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U27	Thank you for your question. True, equal treatment and accessibility are in my portfolio and [they are] issues that also concern me personally very, very much. Let us begin by saying that equal treatment concerns people with disabilities, older people, gender differences between men and women, as well as other choices of gender identity. With what drafts and initiatives have we come up with in the last year? First of all, we have launched an interministerial pilot project that started last autumn in order to reduce gender equality, wage transparency and the pay gap. There are several different ministries in this cooperation project that are contributing with their officials to develop possible and good sectoral instruments to reduce both the gender pay gap, to increase the transparency of wages and to provide people with access. The second issue, and it is very important to me, is the development of a specifically digitalised instrument for the gender pay gap, which we have planned in the same way. This would help companies to monitor how their companies have contributed to wage transparency, which in turn reduces the gender pay gap. In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, there is a law on equal treatment by which we extend the scope of application in matters of discrimination and wish to equalise all groups included in the Constitution in different areas of life, so that all groups are also protected from discrimination in social welfare, social protection, health care, public services, with the exception of the group of persons related to social status, which we have assessed to be quite complex from an operational point of view. But we're ready for a discussion on how to proceed. We are also planning further development of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Act in a way that would provide greater legal clarity and guarantee, not to mention all the actions we are doing at European Union and international level. I am very pleased that the Salary Transparency Directive has been approved, and this year we will have a number of very important directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U28	Minister, your time! Now, the question to be specified. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U29	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive report. But that wasn't the question. The question was that all of your initiatives, on which one group puts forward hundreds of proposals, blackmailing the government and you personally and blackmailing the law itself, which is completely contrary to what you are talking about now, you go along with this blackmail, you are subject to this blackmail. We know very well that as a rule, the blackmailer grows his appetite. The EKRE has publicly acknowledged that this is their strategy: to suffocate the government's drafts with hundreds of proposals in order to obtain a so-called compromise with which you, including your party partners, agree and which are very well drafted by the leaders of the Central Party's committees, both as an example of the Committee on Culture and as a recent example of the Social Committee. You, who are responsible for ensuring that no one is discriminated against in Estonia, that everyone has equal opportunities and that everyone is treated equally, are silently looking at this matter or protest in any way. Why are you doing this? Why do you go along with this blackmail, which in Estonia does not improve the situation of any of the groups you described, but, on the contrary, worsens? These examples can probably be continued, the two of which were, just recently, the examples that we have had in this Chamber and in the Commission. The question to you is: what other values do you agree to trade with the EKRE so that they can get what they need and that the issues you need to stand for can not be resolved? The Media Services Act, I repeat, now allows us to incite hatred, hatred and discrimination. Directly in your field. The Family Benefits Act deprives registered partners, partners of social guarantees. What other values do you agree to trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U30	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U31	Thank you for your question. Speaking of the Family Benefits Act, in 2018 the Riigikogu passed a bill in which, as of today, we have to admit, there are errors and therefore it is very important to adopt the implementing specifications before 1 April. Similarly, the Family Benefits Act provides a package of benefits for parents of stillborn children. Similarly, it is very important to me in this draft that the 40 children whose parents have been declared bankrupt also have access to public aid, which is public maintenance aid. That is why, in the proceedings before the Commission, a proposal has indeed come from the members of the Commission and, as a result of this proposal, the provisions relating to the introduction of partners in three laws have been removed from the draft: the Employment Contracts Act, the Social Tax Act and the Family Benefits Act. In all these laws, the term "registered partner" is already included today. The original wish for me, when I submitted the draft as a member of the government to the Riigikogu, was to harmonise terminology in these three laws so that there are no differences between the sections. Continuingly, if I have at stake and choose whether all Estonian children will receive maintenance support or only selected Estonian children, I choose that all Estonian children will receive maintenance support. If I have a choice as to whether the parents of stillborn children can access parental leave, I will choose this. The topic of the registered partner is and will remain a complex and sensitive issue, which we will have to decide jointly here in the Riigikogu, but also in the government, in subsequent discussions. In fact, we all know what, in this context, is the issue of adopting implementing legislation on the Law on Cohabitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U32	And now one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! With regard to this subject, which you spoke about and presented in the Family Benefits Act, there would have been other options, such as a commitment to trust. However, you have been a minister for a year and a little bit, and knowing that this is time-critical, you could have come earlier. But my question does not concern this area. My question is that in the coalition agreement you also have a better ability and well-being, a sense of security and coping with [people]. And that's what comes up with coping. You spoke very convincingly and truly delightfully, both through the media and through press releases, about how the subsistence limit, which has not been raised since 2019, should be raised. People, including the target groups, had a feeling, because you promised to put it on the table in the government and discuss it, that it would happen this year. We have now received both [confused signals] in the Committee on Social Affairs and in many other formats there has been a misunderstanding that it had to rise, about EUR 200 to the first family member and, consequently, to the second adult, 20% less, and about 20% more. But that's all that's left to talk about. Once again, it seems that it will be put on the table, as has been said on a number of issues, when there will be a debate on the national budget strategy, in spring. For those people who, even in the worldview [are the target group], what the Reform Party stresses is to help those who are most in trouble, well no one doubts that the beneficiaries of income support are the most in trouble today, the limit is unchanged, and knowing that as a person in this field, you are actually hurting the heart over it, just answer clearly and clearly: is it hoped that the rise in the income limit will take place, for example, in the autumn of this year or sometime this year? Or is it that you hold on, it will take place in 2023, as many other things promised by your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U34	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U35	Thank you for your question. As a member of the Riigikogu and as a former Minister for Social Protection, you will probably understand very well that raising the subsistence limit is only possible by amending the State Budget Act, as the limit of living is established in the State Budget Act, which in turn means that it is necessary to open the State Budget Act to increase the subsistence limit. And if it is possible for the government to open, as well as the necessary state budget law, I, as Minister of Social Protection, will definitely come up before negotiating the state budget law for next year by raising the limit of living. I have raised this issue several times during discussions in my office. And last night, in the cabinet of the Government of the Republic, this item was included in the memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U36	Thank you. Now we're going to keep moving forward. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U37	Let's take the next [question]. Raivo Tamm, member of the Riigikogu, questions the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and the topic is value-based governance. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. "Ukrainian President Volodynymyr Zelenskiy is a clown who will lead his country to destruction. " End of quote. "The only message we give out is confirmation that Estonia is a small vicious provocator who, even in such a fragile and difficult political situation as this, can only deactivate weapons. " End of quote. These are public statements by members of the government department, members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu. Ten members of the Centre Party who, for some reason, abstained from voting in the vote on the Riigikogu statement in support of Ukraine may be added. How do you feel about the speeches made by your partymates? Does the Centre Party, our government department, really understand who is responsible for the current aggression in Ukraine? Would you be able to explain to all of you in this Chamber, both to members of your party and to all of us, who occupied Crimea and who are threatening Ukraine's independence today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U39	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U40	Thank you for your question. It is not difficult for me to answer these last two questions. It is clear that Russia is the one that has annexed Russia and Ukraine are threatened by conflict and military pressure. As regards the opinions that you read out, which have probably come out of the press or social media, [about them] must be asked by the same members of the Riigikogu who have expressed such opinions. As regards the official position of the Centre Party, on which we are based and also based in previous governments, where we were with the Fatherland, it is a consensual foreign policy that has been in force in Estonia for decades. We have contributed with our coalition partners, both in the previous government and in the current government, to the strengthening of Estonia's security with specific decisions concerning defence capabilities, deterrence, and our ministers have done a lot of work in this direction. I would like to remind you that the representative of the Central Party has the foreign minister's portfolio now. Eva-Maria Liimets has tirelessly tried to do everything in the direction of diplomacy to raise the deterrent level towards Russia with our allies, and there are no other opinions here. There has been no other opinion at the level of the political party's leadership or at the level of the government, nor at the various coalitions, for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U41	And now the point to be clarified. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U42	Thank you! Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday that this position is known to everyone, but it is great that members of the party also express different opinions. But yesterday's news reported that the Centre Party took off its website a notice of a cooperation agreement with the Russian President Putin's party. Could the agreement have been withdrawn unilaterally? And does the Russian President's party follow any contractual penalties or sanctions to the Estonian government or to the Estonian government as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U43	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U44	Thank you for your question. Just as our party leaders have commented on this, we are talking about the cooperation protocol, which was signed in 2004. Why was it done then? That was the decision of the Bureau at the time in such an international situation. At the time, many other political parties also sought contacts with Russia to maintain good neighbourly relations and to do everything possible to ensure normal relations with the neighbour. They were trying to work together. Unfortunately, it did not exactly materialise because of the political moves of Russia, let us say. We remember that then came the Georgian war, then came different things. There has been no contact with the Unified Russia Party within the framework of or in the framework of this cooperation protocol. Let me remind you that this is a cooperation protocol. It is not a contract that imposes obligations on one or the other party. So in our view, the protocol lost its content and the actions that it [under] should do more than ten years ago. And indeed, for over ten years, we have also had no contact with the United Russia. For us, this cooperation protocol has long lost its substance. And when the home page was updated, the non-working document was removed. To do that, we don't have to turn to anyone, it's invalid for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U45	And now one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U46	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Centre Party is a party of the Minister of Foreign Affairs who is carrying a foreign minister's portfolio in the government today, and therefore these are issues concerning security, foreign policy, especially in the case of the ambassadors of the Central Party. I have understood that there are very clearly two different positions in the Centre Party, both in relation to the occupation of Crimea and the aggression of Russia, which have repeatedly been expressed by several members of the Centre Party. This is completely contrary to the official policy of the Estonian state. I have a more specific question. Namely, Oudekki Loone, a member of the Central Party Group, did not support the statement on Ukraine that we recently adopted here, even though he was in the [at that time] Riigikogu. His statements in this direction have been completely different from the official attitude of the Estonian state and, by their very nature, the content of the Riigikogu statement. At the same time, Oudekki Loone represents the Estonian Parliament in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Tell me if it is right that the Centre Party has sent a person who has a different view on these matters than the Estonian Parliament to represent the Estonian state in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Today we also have a prepared and pending statement on Ukraine. If Oudekki Loone does not support this statement today, do you think it is possible and right that the Central Party will recall Oudekki from the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly as its representative?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U47	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U48	Thank you for your question. These questions were all about one envoy, even though they said there were some other envoys. Yes, a member of the Riigikogu can express his opinion on different subjects. I stress once again: for a very long time, the official position of the Centre Party on these issues has been consensual with the common line of foreign policy in Estonia as a whole. And there's no difference. If the ambassador makes any comments on the content of any statements, he must justify them himself. Now, it is difficult for me to comment on these delegations, because they are set up here in the Riigikogu, who is specifically in a delegation, how the political groups are represented there and who is in the position. Only a political group can discuss such matters or decide who will represent the central group in these delegations. I'm a member of the government. Well, traditionally, you're the employers, I'm the contractor. The employer must put in place his own working arrangements and decide how these delegations are to be set up. So that's my clear answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U49	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U50	Let us move on to the next question. Priit Sibul, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is corona restrictions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U51	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! Vaccination is quite poor and awkward. I understand that the government has rather moved on this path so that society can achieve herd immunity. At least I have this impression of their actions and, in part, of their inaction. I have the question: what purpose do you think these restrictions have? We know that today, true enough, over 600 people are in hospital care. [Advisory Officer of the Health Board for Disease Diseases] Donchenko just a little while ago indicated that there may already be 800 people in early March who are going to hospital. We see that, in fact, these existing restrictions will not help in any way. True, it's quite different from autumn when we had a delta strain. The numbers rose to some 2,000 infected people a day, and now the number of infected people is 3 to 3.5 times greater. I'm sure this virus strain is more lenient, but it's true, people are still getting to the hospital. Although I understand that about half of them [are] hospitalized with a virus, and some of them get that virus in the hospital. What is [you] vision? I looked today, the Minister of Health and Labour said that in addition to the PCR test, the antibody test will be taken into account. When could that happen? And do you still consider the restrictions that were to disappear from February 21st, Monday, the decision you made in the government, even though we can see that there is no connection between these restrictions and the hospital numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U53	Thank you. I very much agree with you in this respect that the vaccination is awkward. And the race has certainly contributed to this, that COVID's proof, the vaccination proof immediately disappears, it's a senseless document and so on. It kind of gave the community a signal so they wouldn't have to vaccinate anymore. This certainly has not made sense. I have always been of the opinion that we must be guided by the situation in hospitals and that the mitigation of control measures must go hand in hand with this. It was known that infection and getting to the hospital were delayed. So the moment these parties came up with dates and demanded that the control measures were gone, it was known that it would still arrive at the hospital. It was very popular at the time, but not a sensible move. If you ask what the purpose of these controls is now, when we look at the numbers, it is still the unvaccinated people who are suffering from this disease more seriously and are going to the hospital. For example, due to the symptomatic COVID in intensive care, we have 12 people, 11 of whom have not been vaccinated and one has been vaccinated. Maybe 91% are unvaccinated. If we take people in controlled breathing, there's five people out there, 100% of them, they're unvaccinated. Therefore, these control measures still serve the purpose that people who have not been vaccinated do not move to places where there are many other people and where there is a greater chance of catching the virus. I am still saying that vaccination needs to be further addressed. Vaccination should in any case be encouraged, including as a message to all older people, as this will help to protect them. If we have 63,000 people over the age of 60 who are unvaccinated, and if they get sick, the chances of them getting hospitalized are greater. Consequently, this is again an additional burden on the hospital network. So this is definitely what should be based on and what we have been based on. One more thing, but I am running out of time to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U54	And now the point to be clarified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U55	Thank you. First of all, about tomorrow's Republic's birthday, maybe we won't meet just happy birthday to us! But back to the question, the same control measures you're referring to. When we look at it, people are both vaccinated and unvaccinated with workplaces, homes, schools. Today's restrictions prevent unvaccinated people from taking part in entertainment, or going to restaurants, theatres, cinemas, sports halls. I have a question in the context of these same restrictions. We allow people [to be together] in public transport, they can come an hour or two hours during the weekend with a train from different places in Estonia to Tallinn or in the morning for hours to work together or to school. People can get in touch there, but you can't go to a restaurant or dining hall for half an hour. The question is for me [that] there are two variants of these restrictions [for]: will these restrictions come, as some doctor has suggested here, so to speak, to tighten up which I personally do not support, or [must be removed]. After all, life shows that the existing restrictions have no effect on hospital entry. If we look at the restrictions currently in force, I think it would be wise to lift them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U56	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U57	Thank you. Two thoughts. First of all, we really, as you say, have the opportunity to tighten up the rules, close everything, say that now everyone is in their homes and there is nowhere to move, there is no contact with anyone. You yourself said in your question that people will probably no longer tolerate it. We've been in this pandemic for two years, and there are different things tried. The Omicron strain, which spreads very quickly, is not prevented by complete closure. Now that we've focused on the burden of the hospital network, it's still people who get into the hospital and are seriously suffering, unvaccinated and no effectiveness doses. If we abandon all restrictions at this point in a situation where we have an exceptionally high level of infection, where we have a very large number of people suffering from COVID-19 disease in the hospital, it will give society a signal as if the threat were over. This means that people start to behave differently when the control measures are gone because such a signal is being given. We have carried out a month-to-month public opinion study on the perception of danger, and people's perception of danger is also very much linked to the control measures that are in place. As soon as the government mitigates control measures, people's perception of danger decreases and their behaviour becomes more free. If we give a signal now, as if the threat is over, and in a situation where we are actually very complicated, I think it will not bring us closer to the burden of the hospital network going down, but it will take us beyond this goal. Yes, when dealing with family doctors, family nurses, or in hospitals, we [see] the medical system is under a great deal of pressure. It is not a question of hospital beds that can be created, but it is a question of people who are not willing to work in these departments. So this is a very complicated situation, and this is very much due to the fact that our vaccination coverage is still low.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U58	Usually the manager always intervenes when something is said badly, but it can also intervene when it is said well: the wish for the anniversary of the Republic was very beautiful. And now for an additional question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U59	Thank you. Prime Minister! We know that COVID is currently the most common among young people. According to recent studies, 45% of COVID sufferers are school students. For the last few weeks, you have always said that, first of all, the restrictions must be relaxed in schools. We understand that children bring the virus home, their parents take it to work, and that's how it spreads. Why do we differ in our view of groups of residents? In schools with the greatest disease, we mitigate [the restrictions], but we know that there is nowhere to prove that, for example, there is no place to eat, that people have become sick or transmitted the virus. How do you justify the greatest relief in the most serious disease group?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U60	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U61	Thank you. If I look at these numbers, we actually have an increase in the number of hospitalized patients aged over 60 in the last three weeks, accounting for 79.2% at the end of the seventh week. You're talking about the infection, but we're the criteria for the hospital network, not the infection. Every infection does not automatically mean getting sick, and every illness does not mean having a serious illness that could lead to a hospital. As a rule, children do not have the disease seriously. Yes, there are also children who suffer from this disease, who may have some comorbid illness, or smaller children. But in general, kids don't have a hard time with it. In the first waves of COVID, the children wore the main weight, even though they did not go to the hospital. As a result, children's education suffered, with much longer and greater consequences. Detention of children and schools has not helped in any way to reduce infection. We have taken the view that children must be able to attend school. Children have a constitutional right to education and we do everything we can to ensure that children go to school. That is why we have a rapid testing system in schools that helps identify the infected, take them down quickly and leave them at home when there are children with a positive [test result], even if they are not yet suffering from symptoms. But all the other kids should be able to go to school. Healthy children go to school, sick children are at home, as was the case with all other illnesses. Staying home has very serious consequences for children's education. Now, as far as [restorans] are concerned. You're saying there's no argument for restaurants. We asked the scientific council for an overview, and they did bring us arguments along with research. Three arguments. First, indoors, the virus spreads 18.7 times as much as it spreads outdoors. Secondly, in pubs and restaurants, the virus spreads 2.5 times more than elsewhere. And thirdly, alcohol consumption increases the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U63	Good fellows! Now, the registered questions are over. I ask all members of the Riigikogu, since there is still a great deal of time in Question Time, to enroll in the order of speeches. I have a big request for you, good colleagues: if you ask a question, tell me who the question is. As you can see, [we have three government members here], they can be asked a question. All right, let's get moving. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U64	Thank you. I would, of course, like to ask a question to all three ministers...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U65	There's no way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U66	...but if I have to choose, I will choose Jaak Aabi. Jaak, Minister! A few months ago in this briefing, I asked the Ministry of Education about the procurement of corona tests. As we know, this procurement failed. I am not talking here in terms of time and organisational problems, but I am talking about financial concerns. That buy-in went way too far. The National Audit Office made a very destructive assessment of this procurement, stating directly that this procurement had not been carried out in accordance with the law. We know that it caused losses to the country in millions of euros. You said that supervision and procedure are in progress at the Ministry of Finance, supervision will be done by January and in January you will receive answers, a summary. Has this monitoring now been completed and the summary is available? What are these conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U67	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U68	Thank you for your question. Yeah, well, last night, I had a conversation with the head of the department, and he gave me some information. As you know, this procedure is at an official level, the Minister does not intervene in the substance, I must say that. [The reason] why supervision has gone a little longer or the whole process, the procedure, is that, in accordance with the laws and rights dealt with by the Public Procurement and State Aid Department, all relevant procurements by the Ministry of Education that had not been declared public procurement were subject to supervision. It is not possible to monitor one particular procurement; it should be someone else's procedure and a different [process]. In the course of [the procedure], it has become apparent that the volume is so large that it has come to the Ministry of Education to ask for additional information on the various procurements not only on this procurement but on the different procurements that have been made. Generally, well, what is also seen in other administrative areas [is] is that in other ministries also in the corona era, due to the crisis, these procurements were often [that is why], because the time frame imposed and needed [fast] to obtain some sort of goods or services. There were relatively many such unproclaimed negotiated procurements, as well as in the Ministry of Education and Research. As far as I am aware, at the beginning of March, the Final Protocol or Act will be submitted to the Ministry of Education for review, as is usually the case, and then the Ministry of Education will be able to make its final comments on the Act. After that, it'll be out in the open.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U69	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U70	Thank you, Mr President, President of the Riigikogu. I would be happy to continue this debate with the good ruler, which we did not have, as far as possible. First of all, I would like to thank you and your government and Minister Signe Riisalo, who, in my opinion, was very reasonable, even though Eduard Odines was very upset. In view of the security situation, I think that it was reasonable to move on to the subject of equal treatment between partners and spouses. We know how this issue affects, we know that people have different ideological views. I think it is very reasonable that the government supported and withdrew them and that the proposals of the Fatherland were supported. This sneaky implementation of the cohabitation law is currently not taking place and people do not therefore have to come to the streets to fight. Thanks for that. But now the question is, as a lawyer, I'm sure you're more competent than I am. You indicated that if we were to remove the restrictions now, [that would not be good, because] for people, the restrictions are important so that they do not feel that there is some kind of trouble or noise. You indicated that young people and children have the constitutional right to attend school, and this right is also being guaranteed through testing. I have a question in the context of the rest of the people. If we have restrictions that are not really competent and restrict people's fundamental rights, free movement, and we know in reality, as we discussed in the previous debate, that these specific restrictions will not help to keep the hospital from being filled [don't] so that people get less hospitalised, unfortunately, these restrictions will not directly affect it. These restrictions, which are not essentially [relevant], are, in my opinion, just as much bullshit in people. When we do something, they must be unambiguous and understandable to people. These restrictions do not serve their purpose today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U72	Thank you. Let's start with the problem is that our vaccination coverage is low. Consequently, those people who have not been vaccinated have caused a situation where we have a lot of people in the hospital. We have no restrictions on people who have been vaccinated. They have the opportunity to go to a restaurant, they have the opportunity to go to a museum, they have the opportunity to go to a theatre, a cinema, everywhere, and there are no restrictions in fact. I think there is a very clear link between cause and effect here. If people have decided that they do not want to vaccinate themselves, the constitutional rights can be limited to the protection of others, and we are trying to ensure that hospitals are not full of unvaccinated people who suffer seriously from this disease, then the rights of other people will suffer as a result. Those who want to get into the hospital for some other reason: those who have a hip member who is waiting for heart surgery are severely restricted in their scheduled treatment. Let me give you an example that is from another country. The person had a medical condition, they took him to the hospital in an ambulance, and they said everyone was full of COVID's patients. She was taken to another hospital, but she died because she never got to another hospital. He didn't get help because the hospital was full of COVID's sick. This did not happen in Estonia, but I will just give an example. So if we have a problem now that hospitals are full of unvaccinated people, then other people are suffering, even though everyone has a free choice of vaccination. Vaccination is free for everyone, it is accessible, we have made it possible to vaccinate anywhere, even on the Freedom Square. Now, with the independence parade, the anniversary parade of the Republic, this point has been removed, but there are a lot of points that can be [vaccinated] and that is the free choice of man. So he's decided he's gonna be a part of society like this. As far as children are concerned, why children are separate, it is because children cannot receive vaccination because of their age, and secondly, there is a great deal to do with parental decisions. Since children are not hospitalised, children are not burdened with a hospital network, there are no further restrictions for children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U74	Thank you. I also have a question for the Prime Minister. First of all, I'm gonna try to explain some logic. 45% of those affected are children who usually live with their parents, in some cases also their grandparents. Maybe they'll take the disease home from where the disease goes and get to grandma's grandpas who end up in the hospital. The second is: if you say that there is a greater risk of illness at a diner where there are 30 people, then I ask how is it possible that Saku Suurhall is always approved that 3,000 people may be together? In December, you promised only 1,500 spectators for the World Cup in the field. If you're talking about the Liberty Square vaccination site, in December before the holidays, when two days were missing from six months, people were sent out. And then, when they complained, the government, fortunately, made a quick decision and was allowed to vaccinate. But my question is completely different. How do you comment on Elering's different attitude towards Aidu and Toots' wind farm? One wind farm is told that renewable energy will not receive support, and the other one will receive it. There is no agreement between the two public undertakings. I can tell you that I was the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs when the issue of renewable energy subsidies was in this Chamber. And we understood very clearly at the time in the Commission that two wind farms could ask for this support for another 12 years, both Toots and Aidu. But right now, the situation is that there are no hesitations, but there are doubts that Elering is playing her solo and maybe taking advantage of the Prime Minister's personal knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U76	Thank you. First of all, the story you said about the vaccination that the children are taking the disease home. So what do you propose? That the kids shouldn't go home? If they didn't go to school, if we shut down schools, they'd hang out in movies somewhere. No, you can't learn because learning is forbidden, but when they're in entertainment places, it's like they don't take the disease home. It doesn't make any sense. That's another thing. We still make decisions on vaccination on the basis of experts. When you say that you see, we didn't, I don't know, the effectiveness doses open, it was because the European Medicines Agency had made the relevant decisions, and we also have our own immunoprophylaxis committee, who makes the decisions because they are experts. This concerns people's life and health. And we cannot make that decision politically. Not all rules make sense. Consider, for example, the greatest safety requirements for babies in traffic. Babies who are light must be fitted with a safety-belt. We only have a seat belt duty. But if you drive a bus, you can stand up and you don't even have seat belts. And now if there is an accident, who is most at risk of [mistakes]? Not the baby who's light, but the person who stands on the bus and isn't secured. But we don't have that rule. And why isn't it? Because it's not practical. We cannot guarantee [following] such rules. Renewable energy subsidies. Do you really think it is fair at current electricity prices that Eesti Energia, which belongs to the state, would ask the state, i.e. the taxpayer, for 53 euros more, if I remember correctly, for support for renewable energy in addition to the price of electricity that they already receive from consumers? Do you really think that's fair in today's world? Whether they are right or not, I think it is simply from the point of view of a state-owned company, given that this money comes from the taxpayer's pocket, in a situation where we are struggling with high energy prices, Eesti Energia will ask the taxpayer for an additional amount of 53 euros per megawatt-hour, [is not fair]. If you think it's fair, you can just file a bill like this and come and protect it. But I say that this is not fair from the point of view of the taxpayer and the energy consumer. These prices are too high anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Looks like it's a procedural question now. Maybe the microphone's not working. Let's hear it. Aivar Chef, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U78	Thank you. I just have a question for the manager. I asked why Elering would give to one and not give that support to another, and the Prime Minister said that it was very bad if it did. He didn't answer why the other wind farm was given. Why is demagoguening and not answering questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U79	Thank you. As you know, as manager, I have also said that the questioners ask and the respondents answer exactly as well as they want and know how. The manager will certainly not intervene in the subject matter. But we'll go on nicely from here. Helmen Hunter, please, you have a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister for Social Protection! As a member of the Riigikogu and also as the former Minister for Social Protection, I certainly know that in order to raise the income support threshold, the state budget must be opened, but I expect you to know that as the Minister for Social Protection today. It is simply a question of whether you should not have said this very clearly, for example, in an interview with journalist Kadri Ibrus or also in press releases, so that it is necessary to open [public budget] in order for this [limit] to rise. The messages that came from it spoke of [time] being left behind by the limit of living. I remember very well when you were a member of the Riigikogu, you were in opposition. Together in the Committee on Social Affairs, we kept this subject so that the messages should be clear and unambiguous. However, it must be said that these messages, which speak of raising the level of subsistence, are not clear, so that people can understand and know when it will happen. There is no doubt that a press release and a message may be issued that this is very important to me, that is a priority, but that can happen then. People will understand that. But they're waiting for this to happen from April 1st. Social workers are overloaded with phone calls on this issue. We both obviously agree, the Social Democrats also tabled an amendment when the state budget was dealt with, that there is no reason to say that this is a Riigikogu matter. If this had been important for the government and the coalition, this amendment would also have been accepted and supported by the votes of the coalition ambassadors. There's no reason to blame the questioner for not doing anything before. But the question was due to the clarity of the message, and it is not a criticism of it; it is a prayer for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U81	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U82	Thank you. I must confirm that the answers to these questions by Mr Ibrus went in writing and included information on when it would be possible and under what conditions to raise the limit of subsistence. I am trying to give as many answers as possible in writing, all the more to the writing media, so that there is no confusion and the answers are as clear as possible. Last year, when budget negotiations were launched and initial ministerial offers were made, the Ministry of Social Affairs and I, as Minister, did not propose to increase the subsistence limit, but [I asked] 3.3 million income support for other changes that included, among other things, for people who are owner of apartments with bank loans to include these loan commitments in order to alleviate the situation of people who have lost some or all of their income in the household during the COVID or because of the COVID. Now, as far as the need to raise our livelihoods is concerned, we really, I think, agree on that. I repeat: this window of opportunity I will look for before 1 January next year, and it is clear that I can propose the RES negotiations starting in August. If the window of opportunity is earlier, I would certainly suggest that we increase the subsistence limit from 150 to 200 earlier. This is particularly because, according to today's calculations and in the light of the rise in the consumer price index, we have reached the point that, in fact, EUR 150 per first family member does not cover the real minimum needs of the family. The minimum needs, with the exception of housing costs and with the exception of alcohol and tobacco, are estimated today at EUR 209.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U83	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Please, Marko Storm!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U84	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Very honourable Prime Minister! It's a question of security policy. First of all, by following foreign media on a daily basis, let me acknowledge that the Estonian state's views on seeking solutions in the crisis have been noticed and recognised by its allies. As a small country, it must be a very, very big thing for us. Thank you. We're visible. But I am primarily interested in the message by the allies about the technology and the placement of the allied forces in Estonia. As much as you can share with the public, maybe you can explain the reasons. I have even spoken on this subject several times over the past year. It must be very interesting to know [what is] the message of the Americans, the British, and the other Allied forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U85	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U86	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your good words and recognition. Indeed, the last few weeks, but actually the last few months have been very intense in this area. I'll start a little further. We have been talking about strengthening NATO's eastern wing for a very long time, in fact for years. When the annexation of Crimea took place in 2014, we have talked about it consistently since then. A NATO summit was held in June, with a separate meeting with President Joe Biden, and this was discussed separately. Then, in July, I visited the United States, where I also had meetings with members of the Senate. The American [United States] Congress has such an initiative as the Baltic Security Initiative and funds are allocated from its budget. I had a lot of meetings there within the framework of the Baltic Security Initiative. Now, in addition, we have had meetings with a lot of different allies, including Great Britain. So that was all before Russia started bringing its troops around Ukraine and sending threatening messages. It was before, it was a prep. Indeed, when the Ukrainian crisis exploded, or indeed when Belarus was engaged in a hybrid attack towards Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and beyond, when Russia organised a military exercise with Zapad, left troops there and planned an additional attack on Ukraine, we were constantly negotiating, I also had a separate meeting with President Joe Biden in November, where we could talk about these issues. So, in fact, this decision is the result of many acts. Of course, we have very good diplomats who have dealt with it and have been in constant communication. Now, specific capacity developments I cannot speak in such detail right now, but once these decisions have been finalised, we can also talk about abilities, because it is not only about people, but actually about filling in certain gaps in our defence capabilities. So anyway, it's good news that the decision came.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Next question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike my colleague, Onion, I think that the well-being of the people of Estonia and their equal opportunities and equal treatment are an issue, regardless of what the crises are all about. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister: what is your understanding, your attitude and your understanding of what is going on here in the Riigikogu lately when the EKRE Group basically blackmails the decisions it needs, which actually does not solve any problems, but, on the contrary, deepens them? Your party mates are going along with this game too. Personally, I see it as a very serious threat to democracy if we do not play values, political views and perceptions in this House, coalition agreements and such things, but the will of the blackmailer will prevail. As we know, extortion is growing in appetite, and we know that the public strategy of the EKRE is to present so many, hundreds of proposals to stifle any discussion and get everything they want. Good Prime Minister, Chairman of the Reform Party, how far are you prepared to go in your trade in values to submit to extortion of the EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U89	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U90	At the moment, I stand before you as a representative of the government. Neither the role of the government as executive authority nor, let us say, the right to criticise Parliament's work. It is, of course, up to you to decide how Parliament works. But indeed, as far as I have contact, what is going on in the Riigikogu seems to me, constantly speaking in this large hall, that there is no order. The order, the rules agreed in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, are not respected. In fact, the constant suspension of all draft laws submitted by the government to the Riigikogu for discussion is an enormous number of amendments. I would point out that obstruction is, of course, an important tool in democracy, but when we were in the opposition, we used this tool twice, two times, which we thought were the right fights. One was when the Estonian pension system was being demolished, and we did everything together with the socialists to prevent it, and then we used obstruction. But it was run over, linking the bill to trust. And the second time we used obstruction was when it was intended to carry out a referendum that splits Estonian society, which concerned who could live with whom, and that would certainly have resulted in very serious consequences. So there were two times when we used the obstruction. Now, indeed, right now, all the drafts are constantly obstructed by obstruction. When we used the obstruction, I remember that I received a lot of criticism in the media about how parliamentary work is paralyzed. It was one bill, but this is the case with every bill. I would recommend that the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu's body of elders, sit down and think about how to deal with this situation, because undermining democracy, as you say, does not benefit our internal security, which in this case is very important in the context of the whole great security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U91	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is for Minister Jaak Aab, and the subject is still a protocol of cooperation with Jedinaya Rossija. Dear Minister, You very well answered the question, using the traditional rhetoric of the Centre Party, that, first of all, this protocol does not work, it is long overdue, you do not say that, but it is usually said that it concerns only cultural contacts and what we have against these cultural contacts. I quote from the Scriptures: "You will recognize them from their fruitage. " As far as cultural cooperation is concerned, it did indeed happen. In particular, I noticed this after the war in Georgia, when Putin-minded art and culture representatives visited Estonia very often, performed in large halls, these musicians, in Estonia, but it was connected with the municipalities where your party was in power, not in Tartu, for example. As far as culture is concerned only, I would read the preamble to this cooperation protocol: "The parties are based on an equally reliable partnership and long-term cooperation from the foreign policy directions of the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. " So it's not just culture, it's long-term cooperation. And now my question: would it not be very easy for you, in the current situation, to say, or even better, if our honourable chairman would say that this protocol is invalid from today? That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U93	Thank you for your question. It's a good thing I get a chance to answer that again. I repeat: this is not a contract. We've been through these things a hundred times. Yes, it was once planned to develop good neighbourly relations with a party such as the United Russia, which was probably already a relatively important player in the rule of the Russian state. In view of Russia's foreign policy and the steps that followed practically, these contacts no longer took place at any level. These issues have never been discussed in the leadership of the party or in the board after the first few years, where, for example, the Congress of the Single Russian Party was really held as a delegation. But it was all before Russia broke the rules in its international foreign policy, so it was not possible to cooperate at this level. As far as cultural cooperation is concerned, I think you are referring here to local authorities, it has never been linked to this protocol, because the protocol was concluded between political parties. And this protocol, well, how do you practically see it coming? The Protocol provides for contacts and activities. If they do not take place, then the protocol does not make sense or action. How are we supposed to cancel it? Go on now to say now that, listen, we once long ago in 2004, as we move towards good neighbourly relations, we signed a document, but it does not exist. It doesn't exist because there's no activity or contact about what it says. It had faded long before we have to talk about this again, probably because of internal politics. We have also talked to the Fatherland about this protocol, we have been asked, and we have made it clear that this protocol does not apply, it is not working and it does not work. Why does it have to be asked a hundred times, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U94	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. A procedural question. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U95	Honourable Chairman! I would ask you to remind the Minister that this protocol was active on the Centre Party's website until August last year, then it was deleted. But it was still active on the Jedinaya Rossija website after that. A few days ago, Jedinaya Rossija changed his interface and there is no search engine or any references. So it's not exactly a lie you're saying, but it's clever and it's not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U96	Thank you. Let us move on to the next question. Toomas Järveoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Tomorrow is the birthday of the Republic of Estonia. Congratulations to all of us! But a few days ago, Varro Vooglais claimed that the Tall Hermann Tower should not fly the flag of blue black and white and that we could also be the Governor of Estonia. The EKRE ambassadors have just moved away from this Varro Vooglaid and accuse ministers of lying that the EKRE has not convened demonstrations. I can come to the court to prove that EKRE representatives called Elvas [total demonstration] by 23 October, organized buses and brought people to the meeting. So it is clearly wrong that the EKRE has not organised these meetings. But my question is about Estonia's coming birthday. As Estonian people, can we be calm and celebrate the birthday of the Republic of Estonia tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U98	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U99	Thank you. Indeed, we have very anxious times, but tomorrow the Republic of Estonia will celebrate the 104th anniversary. I think that today, more than ever, we really have reason to be grateful for our freedom. If we look at what is happening in Ukraine, this fight is actually about freedom. Our symbol of freedom is the blue-black-white flag flying in the Long Hermann Tower. Such statements are also, in my view, very inappropriate, especially in view of this situation, as I have said. We are under attack both internationally when we look at Russia's actions and, in fact, at domestic level. Behavior, where, for example, the Estonian police are attacked, when the Estonian police are turned into an enemy, certainly undermines our internal security, which is an important element in the big picture. I certainly don't think that makes any sense. As far as these demonstrations are concerned, it's just interesting that you brought it up. On Monday, I answered questions here. Mart Helme started talking about the remote and said that this was the 23rd of October demonstration that we organised. Well, the picture doesn't show, but I was sitting here and I saw the EKRE group [members] who all shook their heads that now went wrong. He said no, another demonstration, we're not involved in this demonstration on 23 October. I would like to remind you that this was an anti-vaccine demonstration, where the media was EKRE New News and so on. For some reason after saying that it does not matter what flag is in the Tall Hermann Tower, that everywhere else is better than in the present Republic of Estonia, and it does not matter who is ruling here, our colleagues in the EKRE Group of the Riigikogu [were trying to withdraw from what happened] as if they had no connection with it and these were two completely different phenomena. So it's really interesting. But yes, in this key... Now I've forgotten your question. I'm sorry! It was such a long introduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U100	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good day to all of us, too! Prime Minister, you have done outstanding work over the last two weeks in the area of foreign relations between countries concerning the crisis in Ukraine. This has really been outstanding, and that is why my question comes up in this area. In fact, this morning, a large part of the members of the Riigikogu have signed a declaration on the 'Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine', which strongly condemns the aggression directed by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the transfer of troops to Ukraine and the illegal recognition of occupied areas. Among other things, the countries of the world are invited to support Ukraine's economy and to make a decisive increase in arms assistance. The Riigikogu also invites the Member States to grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for membership of the European Union and the roadmap for NATO membership. Have these options been discussed recently in the communication between the heads of state in which you have participated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U102	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U103	Thank you. First of all, I am very sorry to Thomas Järveoja and I will answer his question, if you will, first. Indeed, tomorrow's Republic anniversary we can celebrate with a calm heart, because Estonia has never been as safe as we are at the moment. We are in NATO, in the European Union, we are being listened to, in addition we are making additional defence investments and people's desire for protection has increased. So I'm sure we'll all celebrate tomorrow. Now, answer your question. When Estonia moved towards NATO and the European Union to join one organisation or another, it always went a little parallel when one door started to close, the other door opened. That is what I have also pointed out in my communication with the Prime Ministers of other European countries that hope is needed for Ukraine, because this hope is not only for Ukraine, but for all those countries that have chosen a democratic path and want to be in this European value area. So that these doors do not close, so that there is hope of candidate status. Just as Lennart Meri said, Europe is not geography, but Europe is a set of principles and a commitment to principles. And principles don't form geography or do geography, which means, on the contrary, sorry, geography isn't principles, but principles make up or show the value of where you are. So actually, this could be what we're going for. Russia's struggle for Ukraine is under way because Russia does not want Ukraine to choose freedom, choosing the path of a democratic state. And why? Because it is a threat to the rule that Russia has, because then you will be accountable to the people in the elections. If you make mistakes, people won't pick you next time. And secondly, the state must be for people, perhaps to make people's lives better, while the Autocracy uses the country to improve their lives, perhaps, as rulers. There's a big difference. So, therefore, it is very important for us to support Ukraine. I very much welcome the statement made by the Riigikogu to really give more support to Ukraine's efforts to enter NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U104	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let us move on to the next question. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister, my question is for you. First of all, the good anniversary of the Republic of Estonia that is approaching you and all members of the government! My question is a follow-up question to Mr Järveoja, because before the Estonian flag is solemnly raised to the Tall Hermann Tower tomorrow, we have all had a great shock to hear Varro Vooglaid make a statement that it does not matter whether it is the Estonian Governor or why, too emotionally and for long, we can confirm with arguments, it is blue black and white. And my question is specifically: will Varro Vooglaiu's possible relationship with our aggressive neighbouring country be investigated, and what are Varro Vooglaiu's links to the Estonian Conservative People's Party, with whom meetings will be held, calling for constitutional order and overthrowing the government? I ask this because the United States has recently made public a list of people who will be shot, deported, what is happening in Ukraine. There is certainly a list of those who will prevail when Ukraine is fully occupied, and it can be expected that the same lists are also for Estonia. Can Varro Vooglais be on the list of people who wish to take charge of this Estonian province? Do you have any intel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U106	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U107	Thank you. I don't know how to answer you in this respect. We have investigative bodies that operate independently. I don't get that information. If the DA's office or investigative authorities find something like this, they'll do something about it. We have laws in place, we are the rule of law, we have sections of the Penal Code on crimes. In case this formation's together, I think it's probably the investigative authorities or the prosecutor's office. Indeed, an interesting book is Timothy Snyder's "The Road to Unfreedom," where he compares the narratives of America, Europe and Russia precisely as he begins the book on how Russia wanted to be in Europe at the beginning, but when Putin realized that this was not possible, he said that if Russia does not become Europe or Russia does not become west, then the West will become Russia. Timothy Snyder in his book points out how extreme right-wing groups in Europe, as well as in America, actually use exactly the same narratives, exactly the same points of talk about Europe or the West that Russia uses. The main points are that Europe has gone down morally or that the West has gone down morally, that it is a mad Muslim migration and an enormous migratory pressure. These are the same things that the extreme right says. In other countries, I know, links have also been identified through really financing, but as far as I am aware, no such link has been established in Estonia. So if there's anything suspicious, it could be purely because these people really believe in the same views Putin believes, and it could be a coincidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U108	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let us move on to the next question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U109	Thank you for the floor. My question is to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! It is clear that the Single Russia is a political organisation that has the opposite interests of the Republic of Estonia [to the interests of the Republic of Estonia]. This is an organisation approved by the occupied part of the territory of Georgia, part of the territory of Ukraine. A political organisation with the approval of which the entire European security structure is threatened. The members of this organisation are, among other things, the puppet leaders of the occupied Donetsk and Luhansk regions, as has become clear. You and your party have repeatedly requested that your coalition partner, the Central Party, terminate the cooperation agreement with them. Now we are in a more critical situation than ever, and it seems, among other things, that this agreement will help some members of the Central Party, unfortunately also members of the Central Party Group, to embrace the points of Putin and the Kremlin, as we have seen freshly. The leaders of the Centre Party claim that this agreement does not work. At the same time, I do not know, nor has the Centre Party explained in any way to the public, that they are either at the board level or at their council level, or that this agreement should be discussed by the decision taken by the Centre Party to abandon this agreement. Neither have they, as far as I know, sent any sign of this treaty to the other party. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In this situation, what do you think: is this agreement in force or is it not, and are you prepared to demand from the Centre Party here, as before, that they terminate this agreement unambiguously?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U110	Good questioner, your time. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U111	First of all, I would like to say that the situation has improved in some respects. While you were in the government, the Prime Minister's Party had an agreement with the United Russia. Now the Prime Party does not have an agreement with the United Russia. But more seriously [speaking], then, of course, in a security situation like this, such agreements must be terminated. Certain formulas are foreseen to cancel the agreement. Indeed, every lawyer can write such a letter to cancel the treaty, and I hope that the Centre Party will understand that such a step must be taken. In the current security situation, it is particularly important that there is no doubt about such links and their existence. As a result of the replies of Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, it seems to me that the Centre Party has understood this concern and is taking the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U112	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U113	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of State Administration! I'm asking about the Southeast Estonia programme. I thank you [for] having a meeting with the South-East Estonian Envoy Group a week ago and there was a very constructive debate. But South-East Estonia's development centres and people are looking forward to continuing this programme in the next period, 2023 to 2027. Can you say anything more specific about this? Is it coming, stays and is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U114	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U115	Thank you for your question. Just as I did at the meeting, there will be no change this year; there will be resources; these activities will continue this year. Now, as regards the opening up of funding for the new funding period, it is possible to channel an additional €7.5 million into the South East Estonia programme in support of entrepreneurship. In addition, the company's own contribution will be added. We have previously made this business support under the South-East Estonia programme for national money. And as far as [this] is concerned, as I explained there, yes, we have separate programmes for South East Estonia and East Viru. But if you look at the development of the regions and these indicators and statistics, most of Estonia's regions are in about the same position, each with their own slightly more specific concerns. But if we look at the demographic situation, even if we look at how many regions have lost their population, fortunately, yes, in recent years, it is not going to shrink so badly, I hope that the steps taken by the last governments in regional policy will still have some effect. This will certainly not have an immediate effect. But there are also positive directors and pushers, such as the corona time that taught us how to work remotely. The Kupland initiative in South-East Estonia works very well. So, I assure you, the volume of regional policy measures aimed at South-East Estonia will increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U116	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for this clear message. For a moment, you might even have believed that there was no treaty and that there was a memorandum, but it was now clear, and the Centre Party must draw its own conclusions in this context on the announcement of a government partner. But let's be honest, we're on the eve of the Republic's anniversary, we know that in Pärnu in 1918 just today the manifesto of independence was read out, Hugo Kuusner did it. The Estonian state has had good and bad times, but we always try to remember that when we speak in Parliament, good Eiki Nestor has always emphasised this as the Chairman of the Riigikogu, we are talking to the Estonian people. We may and must disagree here in Parliament, this is one of the foundations of democracy, there are different values, but we have one country. We have one country to develop, create and keep for new generations. I think that, in fact, many Estonians look and want to hear something beautiful before the Republic of Estonia instead of fighting and bickering. And I would give you the opportunity to say something beautiful to the different counties of Estonia, good masters and hostess about Estonia, where we are going, where we are going, because the day of celebration is in everyone's heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U118	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U119	Thank you. The song says that there are no good times or bad times, but there is a moment in which we are present. Indeed, tomorrow is the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia and we actually have a great deal to be proud of. A few days ago, there was an episode in "Actual Camera" where people who received decorations this year were interviewed. And, you know, I was watching this show or that part of "Actual Camera" and it was so bright there was a gentleman who was a school bus driver, there was a physics teacher. I think it is essential to recognise such good people. They do their work with commitment and a warm heart, and the fact that communities also notice them is, in my opinion, very, very good. Everyone has a role to play in this big picture of what our society is all about. Who holds this role as a member of the Riigikogu, who carries this role as a teacher who carries this role as a bus driver, but that is where the Estonian state comes together. I think we have so much to be proud of. Let it be our children, who are supertubs, on the educational side, which is an example for everyone, our economic freedoms, in which we have risen to the seventh place among the countries of the world. And today, I think there's a reason to remember the whole journey that we've come here. It hasn't come easy. That's really where all people have contributed to their work. So what I would say is that we notice those people around us who are doing their day-to-day work, which may seem self-evident to us, which we take naturally somehow, but actually it's a big deal. Let's say thank you to these people and wish them a happy anniversary of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I want to ask Kaja Kallas, yes. I came to this hall, and I was ready to compete and fight with the EKRE here in order to get even and ask for something, and then I come here, I discover that the EKRE has canceled, given up, left, which on the one hand is nice, but it would certainly have been moody to listen to what Kalle Grünthal wants to know about the science-based approach or Urmas Reitelmann's sexually transmitted diseases, I don't know if there is any personal concern, but these questions didn't even ask me this time. I'm using this time to ask about the security situation. On the one hand, we are seeing Russia rewrite history again, Putin speaking of Ukraine called Vladimir Ilyich Lenin. On the other hand, we see how the West has imposed some sanctions. But I have two questions. What is the risk of Russia taking advantage of this situation in order to harm Estonia in any way? For example, we still have a common synchronisation of electrical systems, there are possible cyber attacks, something like that. Do you know if anything happened? On the other hand, why does the West not stop the Russians from participating in the SWIFT tax system? If the Russians were to be expelled, basically all their credit cards would turn into tabloids and perhaps a lot of problems would have been solved, or not. But my question is, has it somehow been left in reserve? Will such sanctions, which are seriously attacking or restricting the financial system, be discussed as to where the West is prepared to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U122	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U123	Thank you. Indeed, I too prepared for Question Time, which included 17 questions on very different subjects, but can also be answered on different subjects without having the time to prepare for it, as has now happened. Indeed, Putin has tried to rewrite history in his performances, and he is really presenting such a narrative. Now the question you have asked is that there is a risk that Russia will use some of these moves against us. We don't see a direct threat to ourselves right now, but when I say it, I also say that every connection we have with each other actually allows the other side to be damaged. If you're in contact with someone, there's always two sides to this thing. One thing we need to be prepared for and we are, or at least we are trying to be ready and what every person should think about is how to protect our technical resources, especially our computers from possible cyber attacks. At national level, we also see much greater traffic in cyberspace. Now, the question of sanctions. We have talked in the European Union about a very comprehensive package of sanctions, but as Russia took the first step towards recognising the Donetsk and Lugansk regions or, so to speak, the peoples' republics, which is only the first step, this decision was to split these sanctions. If you also look at the statements made by the United States and Great Britain, then everyone will have the same line of keeping these sanctions in reserve in case the escalation should continue. The point is that you must have a deterrent effect on sanctions and, of course, a punitive effect, so if the next steps are taken, you would still have something in a toolbox that could be used in case Putin escalates this aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U124	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let us move on to the next question. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister Signe Riisalo! Today, the report by the Development Monitoring Centre on the future of long-term care came to the members of the Riigikogu. We know that disability, including disability related to old age, both these people and often their loved ones are forced into great deprivation or poverty. I know your ministry has developed plans to help these people. Perhaps you will comment on the changes that could be made in the coming year and in the next four years, which would alleviate the situation of people in need of care and assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U126	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U127	Thank you very much for your question. A very important subject and not just for me, our ministry, but actually for the whole of Estonia. We know that long-term care is an increasing number of people affected by [theme] [we have] an ageing society, an increase in the number of people with disabilities. We know that we are expected to have an increase in the [number] of people with dementia from 1% of today's population to 3% in just a few decades' time. All of this needs to be prepared. Not only that, we're in a difficult situation today. Long-term care is mainly the care of the elderly, but not only, and the care of the elderly is the responsibility of local authorities. Regrettably, the total turnover of the general care service [which is] about 100 million per year is 80% covered by both customers and their loved ones. That is why we have made plans in three stages. The first stage relates to the Social Welfare Act currently pending in the Riigikogu, where we regulate the concept of long-term care. We will reduce maintenance obligations for second-degree relatives, rather we will suspend this obligation, and we will make a number of other changes that are not directly related to the financial resources. In the next stage, we want to come to the government and also to the Riigikogu in the autumn with a draft, which would already tell us very clearly about a component-based financing model, where the ownership of a person, client and his/her loved ones has been brought down significantly to somewhere at 40% of the total price, and with it, the improvement and simplification of both holiday and social tax schemes for carers. And the third, most difficult stage is where we are also planning the development plan and want to go to government with a memorandum in the autumn of this year in order to propose solutions that will actually remain for implementation to the next Riigikogu chosen by the people and to the appointed government, which are linked to long-term models of funding schemes, where, among other things, sources of funding need to be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U128	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U129	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week session of the VII session on Wednesday. The members of the Riigikogu are now able to deliver drafts and questions. Please, Anti Division!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U130	I'm handing over a draft amendment to the Employment Contracts Act. Time and again, we have to come back to the same subject. We last addressed this problem here in January. We consider this matter to be important, but we will treat it somewhat differently from the draft Social Democrats presented in January. In particular, we believe that, in the case of public holidays falling on weekly holidays, additional holidays should be granted, which will be added to the annual leave. This would also apply to the annual leave of an employee with partial or no capacity to work and to the leave of an educational worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U131	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland Party [group] is delivering a bill that would allow the money from privatisation to be used to protect heritage, to better preserve our building values. The purpose of the draft is to enable the funds received to be used for the maintenance, repair or preservation-restaurisation of a building returned during the ownership reform or located in a heritage conservation area. We currently have 12 heritage reserves in Estonia. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Regrettably, sufficient resources have not been found for them. It is true that this draft does not directly bring additional costs to the state budget, but, as has already been said, it allows some of the funds received in privatisation to be used for this purpose. This year, too, the budget has actually reduced the financial allocations for this type of building. We all know the state of our precious buildings, buildings. This bill provides a flexible way to preserve our construction heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U133	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U134	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! Allow me to forward a draft statement from the Riigikogu concerning the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. This draft has been drawn up in cooperation with all the political groups of the Riigikogu, a very successful cooperation. Currently, 86 people have signed and maybe this number will increase. In the context of current events, all kinds of statements have been made by different institutions and parliaments. Our statement is much more specific than most of them, and I would like to highlight some of the points that are here. First, maybe most important. The rumor that the doors of NATO and the European Union are open must be stopped and Ukraine granted the status of candidate country for the European Union and a roadmap for entering NATO. Another important thing is that if crimes are currently committed in Ukraine's territory, they must also be followed by responsibility, both legal and political, and so on. That means legal, too, not just political. There are crimes and there are criminals. They must be punished. And here we have concrete proposals on how this could be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U135	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Riigikogu The Isamaa Group gives the procedure to the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to support the coastal people, the content of which, in short, is as follows. The Riigikogu decides, first, on the basis of § 103 (2) of the Constitution, to propose to the Government of the Republic to initiate a draft law defining in the Fisheries Act the concept of a beachman as a person permanently living in a waterline settlement unit and using a barber and boat, and to extend the regime for granting a [same] fishing permit to beachmen as applies to permanent residents of small islands, and second, on the basis of § 154 (1) of the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, to propose to the Government of the Republic to develop a beach support programme, the resources of which would be provided in the draft state budget of 2023 and whose steering group would be formed by involving representatives of coastal communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U137	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and, in this connection, amending other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U139	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and the Management Board decides on their further processing, of course, in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U140	76 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now such a story that the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that we discuss the statement by the Riigikogu on the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine today, if possible, which means that the governing board of the Riigikogu must meet and process this application and also appoint a commission. So I'm gonna take the manager's break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President is over and I will let you know what we decided on in the Bureau. According to § 93 and § 154 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Board of the Riigikogu decided to accept the statement of the Riigikogu about the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine initiated by 86 members of the Riigikogu. We set the deadline for tabling amendments. As this is a draft to be dealt with at one reading, the deadline for amendments is 3:15 today. Yeah, an hour. And we also determined that an additional sitting would take place today, 23 February, an hour after the end of the regular sitting. So please keep an eye on your bells when we're due to end the trial. We'll be gathering an hour after that. Mr. Juske, you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U142	No, it's not. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U143	No, it wasn't. Mr. Chef, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U144	I have a question why you're making the difference for an hour. Couldn't it be 15 minutes? Was there a [proposal] in this debate to perhaps take a shorter break?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U145	Yeah, of course. We've done these things before, and usually it's an hour apart. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, there is the technical question: we must technically close this sitting, technically record it. Secondly, the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will also take place after the deadline for tabling amendments and we will also review the information from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So for an hour, that's what we're looking at right now. I believe that we can do this if it is so important to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U146	Okay, let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, Land Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission has proposed a final vote, but before that, political groups will be able to express their views. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Metsoja, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Good coworkers! Yes, indeed, it is true that while the Fatherland does not physically break this bill, it certainly has its own meaning and content, but it must be said immediately that the Fatherland does not give it its own support and blessing. Why? First of all, we are living in such an interesting time, where the siege of property has taken on a new, strong momentum. And let us be honest, even those restrictions on ownership that have already been imposed in the past have somehow been overlooked. For example, if a country has granted land tax exemptions to landowners from land protected by nature protection or restricted zones, it has somehow happened that the person to whom the tax is due in the form of [other] land tax has not been paid. We value this amount a year in the circa a little over 3 million euros. But this period of time has been very long and the total amount amounts to EUR 70 to 80 million, which is actually the same amount of money that we plan to put into the development of the digital state, for example, to bring modern high-speed internet connections to different areas of Estonia. I guess this is where you have to look for these connections every day. If we want to tax property or exempt property, then we still have to think that it is people, people's living environment and the other way around a good. That is one very important point. Besides, this bill really deals deeply with this side of the assessment of land. For example, the value of installations on forest land, which originally has been the right approach, is not to be assessed. But let's see what regulations and the development of legal space we are dealing with. We are taking very strong steps towards opening up new legal situations, for example in the context of the Renewable Energy Directive or of land use at all, in the context of LULUCF. For example, forest growing on land under nature conservation or on private land or on state land, which needs to be used to fulfil the public function of the state, be it any protective polygon, be it...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz has gotten pretty big again in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U149	Thank you. ... be it the railway corridor, some sort of line to the point that we come to the point that one topic really is the market value of this land, its tax component, but the assets that are growing there we actually make the legislation considerably less valuable in economic terms. And actually, when we're going down that road, it's very important to look at it. Indeed, as farmers say, land is a means of production, land is a resource to produce on it, and also to produce added value, food for society. If we change the price of this value on earth, it should also be taken into account as one of the components of the formation of the land tax. What's more, we all understand that fear in the same way. In this Parliament, it has been said on several occasions, both from the mouth of ministers and from Members of Parliament, that local governments cannot be trusted. While we think that local governments should be able to be trusted, there should be more and more trust. These land tax rates, which have been set as if to remain in force, are then created by such a smooth transition. This fear of self-sufficiency is quite high. In my opinion, in order to restore this trust, it is precisely the old debt that needs to be paid first, i.e. to pay the municipal authorities the lost land tax, to actually take account of the change in value on the ground in this draft, if we want to set it in the legal area, to look at the bigger picture and then come back to this issue. That the value of the land is market value, the Fatherland is not in dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U150	I don't see any more calls. I shall close the negotiations and begin preparations for the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, Land Tax Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 406. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U151	For 72 and against 9. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U152	Our second item today is the third reading of draft law 420 amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any calls, I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Since there was a final vote, can we go to the vote now? Thank you! Then I will also say for the future that if there are negotiations, there is a call sign, but if there are no negotiations, we have several third readings here, then I assume that we will vote them in a row without a call. I am voting on the amendment of the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 420. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U153	With the result of 81 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U154	The third item is the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 426. I'm opening negotiations. We're in the middle of a third reading. On behalf of the Group of the Jüri Jaanson Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have here in the final vote...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U156	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U157	Today, in the final vote, we have here a draft law of 426 which took time and which involves one subject, namely the issue of distrust, which has already been mentioned here in the case of municipalities. In fact, it is that we still have to trust the market participants and also the municipalities. Trust is the best tool to find consistency in our activities here in dealing with draft laws and eliminating pains. Thus, the current draft law, if it now enters into force as a law, gives home consumers and businesses the opportunity to better reduce and regulate their energy costs. Although the signs of spring are already in the air, the weather is warmer and windier and therefore the electricity exchange price is falling, there is no way we can escape the next winter and the heating period that comes with it. The bill makes a significant contribution to people's unstressed livelihood and confidence in becoming a law. Some points I would like to read out of this draft law, which may be important to consumers. This draft law amends both the Electricity Market Act and the Natural Gas Act, which will allow more favourable fixed-term price contracts for consumers. In doing so, energy product sellers can offer fixed-term contracts with early termination fines, which will allow a significantly lower contract-based price to be offered than is currently the case. However, the current possibility of terminating a fixed-term contract without a fine remains in force. Secondly, the draft provides free access to at least one reference tool with a trust mark and independent of market participants, for domestic consumers and companies to compare sellers' offers. The reference tool shall provide accurate and clear, unambiguous information. Thirdly, consumers will have the opportunity to join the energy communities and thereby manage their energy consumption. Fourthly, regulation of aggregation and demand response can be created to combine consumer consumption burden and also producers' production capacity to sell or purchase electricity on the market. This can be used to control the burden of electricity consumption. Fifthly, network operators are also subject to conditions for the development of market-based charging infrastructures for electric vehicles. This draft will enter into force on 1 April if the law becomes applicable. I would like to thank all the parties involved in the proceedings on this draft, above all the officials of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Economic Committee and the Riigikogu, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There was quite a lot of work done in order to clean up the electricity market. Inputs were provided here by both the groups and reliable market players. There's one more topic left up here. This issue needs to be moved forward from this point. In particular, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance have promised to order and to be ready by August this year with an analysis of how a public distribution company can be made independent of the market through ownership unbundling. I hope that we can take this matter forward in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U158	George, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U159	Yeah, I got a couple more sentences, I got a few more ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U160	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U161	In the meantime, I hope that the draft will be adopted today, and I call on you to vote in favour, and this will contribute to stabilising electricity and gas prices, so that the next winter will not be so unexpected and so difficult for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U162	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 426. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U163	With the result of 56 passed 22 the draft has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U164	The fourth item is the third reading of the draft Act on the Implementation of the Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds of the European Union for the period 20212027 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Social Democrats, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U165	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, This is our opportunity to talk about where the structural resources will move, how they will be used and what principles will be used in decision-making over this year and the next seven years. This is our chance to have a say. And I am very sorry to note, first of all, that the Socialist amendments, including those concerning the improvement of regional balance, were not supported. I think that for any decision to use structural instruments, the approach should be that rural areas have a [less] own contribution, there are separate calls for proposals, separate conditions. Then we would be sure that most of the structural funds will move in such a way that they will be used in such a way as to reduce regional disparities. If you look back on the previous years, the result has been the opposite. Yes, in a good way, in the hope that something will come to land, the money has been used, billions of money has been spent, but the result is that regional inequality has not been balanced by structural means either. Rather, it has happened that they amplify regional differences. A conscious response is needed to ensure that inequality does not increase in itself. And this conscious counter-step can be the principle at law level [to establish] that there must be a lower level of self-financing or a separate call for proposals or conditions ensuring that rural areas can use these resources to solve their major concerns, establish connections, develop services. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened. Today, we are adopting the law in such a way that we do not prohibit regional differences. Whoever really wants and wants, there's a chance. But this awareness must exist, as well as the desire to explain and justify this change. I reaffirm that, in fact, I think that it could be our desire in this Chamber that regional differences in the application for money and conditions are natural. Where these differences do not need to be made or cannot be made, this shall be explained and justified. It's not a burden or anything outrageous. Yes, if we channel money more into urban areas or do not make regional differences, there must be a clear reason. And actually, it could be a cross-cutting principle. Much is said that we do not use structural funds in any way other than budgetary ones. And indeed, the principle of improving regional balance should also be in place throughout the use of budgetary resources, and we in this Chamber could stand for it. So I am very pleased that we will reach the adoption of the law on the implementation of these funds by the end of 2022. We certainly do not want to hold back the possibility of using this money in any way. The Social Democrats undoubtedly support the adoption of the law. However, we cannot say that we are confident that these instruments will be used in such a way as to reduce regional disparities. But we hope that the good will in the current framework will materialise to ensure that as much of this money reaches rural areas as possible, and we do not have to say in six or seven years' time that it actually happened as it has always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U166	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to our lovely Riina Sikkut here a moment ago, I immediately remembered the Estonian [middle] "On top of a gold-haired, inside a siruvirin." It's an onion. Riina was trying to make it clear here that this bill is actually, on the contrary, inside, gold-haired, squirrel-like. It's not like that, it's exactly the opposite. Quite the contrary! As Olof Palme has once said, politics is will. And indeed it is his will, and when we adopt this bill, we will see what the will of our politicians is. But let's see what this bill says, whose will it brings out and how it brings out. See how well it sounds: the Act on the Implementation of the Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds of the European Union for the 2021-2027 period. Cohesion, internal politics, holy shit! What kind of cohesion? Whose cohesion? What domestic policy? In fact, the idea of this 'onion bill' is to make the Republic of Estonia, first and foremost, an institution implementing the migration policy of the European Union, in a very strange way. We are essentially unable to say [our] word; we are merely applying what is written to us. And, of course, we can't say no because the amount that comes from there is so great. We cannot refuse money, and it is true that we have a very firm understanding of politics in part: we need to share when money is offered, received, regardless of what it brings us, how it concerns our values, our dignity, our country. So, what is stated in this bill? I'll get a little quote. "The aim of the draft [is to establish] internal regulation in the operational programme for investment in growth and jobs under the European Union's [budget period 2021 to 2027] and in the programmes for European territorial cooperation and cooperation across the external borders of the European Union. It also regulates the deployment of external support in the area of migration, external borders and internal security [for the implementation of the objectives]. " Holy shit! What a pulpit! Of course, it could have been written much more normally, but there's no need for it. This bill isn't meant for the people. That, as I said, the draft for the Republic of Estonia, as an implementing agency of the European Union, should contain as many pulpit as possible, although officials are chewing it through and writing it for themselves. This draft, 100 pages with annexes and explanatory notes, the same pulpit text, and now we will dismantle it a little more. In order to implement the [Implementation Plan] for growth and employment investments in the territory of the Republic of Estonia, Estonia has the opportunity to receive 3.37 billion. That's a pretty crazy amount, that's 25% of the state budget. No course [to be given it] under certain conditions. We are not arguing here, are we not, we must be guided by what the European commissioners, who are members of the European Commission, are telling us and then we will put it into practice. To receive these grants from the various funds listed: the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Fair Transition Fund and so on. The areas, objectives and results of the use of the grant will of course be agreed with the Republic of Estonia, but [this will be done] to implement the programming documents, operational programmes and programmes approved by the European Commission, as they say. And on the basis of the operational programmes of these programmes approved by the European Commission, the allocation of tasks within the country of Estonia, the procedures for granting grants, the use and the conditions for cancellation will be established. The way they see it, yes. Basically, of course, as I said earlier, it is a lot of money and it is a political decision, as Olof Palme said. We have the opportunity to accept this money without preserving our dignity, our judgment, and also not accepting it and maintaining our judgment and dignity. I'm gonna take a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U168	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U169	The principle, then, is that money, good Estonians, is for you, rights in this respect remain with us in Brussels, the European Commission. It's pragmatism versus dignity. It is, as I said, a political decision, a political decision, whether or not to accept the Jewish shekels, whether or not to take down an even greater part of the seller's own decision on migration or not to sell. Whether to accept, and not little, the money coming from Europe in order to be able to regulate more labour migration within and outside Europe. The Estonian Conservative People's Party has carefully considered all the nuances to this draft and adopted a fundamental and principled decision not to support this draft. And I believe that everyone else is also dignified not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U170	Andres Metsoja, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U171	Thank you, Mr. Pevkur! Good coworkers! The Isamaa Group also examined this draft here and there, there was no link with the onion, but somehow we came to the same conclusion that we could not support it. But why did we reach that position? Mostly because already in 2010, the Government of the Republic has launched a strategic document such as "Estonia 2030+." This is a vision of spatial development, which has been dealt with from the grassroots level, in fact from the county level, and a [created] country-wide needs map and plan, where Estonia should move to and what are the areas of problems that, strongly referred to, could become a better working environment for people and more spatially accessible services. [In this] document goes to quite a few details. And now this bill should actually provide, as much or as little as Parliament can speak, precisely this direction of input. What are we going to do when we are not actually able to give the government input with the power of law, how to develop Estonia, and on what basis? Firstly, it gives a very poor signal to any planning process. Quite often it is actually heard from different corners of Estonia that it is said, but what we are doing is true, now there is much centralized to the level of the Ministry of Finance, when it actually goes down like an empty pot and rumbles back at us. The operational programmes are essentially not related to this. And I think that is one of the most important problems of this draft, because the financial volume is very large. But the role of the Riigikogu remains essentially unfulfilled, as always happens in Estonia: the regulation of the measure is written down and the regulation of the measure so happens that the money goes where the most beneficiaries are. And at the same time, we fight urban sprawl, which requires more and more money. This is a lifelong problem for Estonia that we should want and be able to solve with this level of document. A lot has been said, and mainly under the leadership of the sots, there were amendments here, which we voted on last time, so that there should be two funding areas in Estonia. Indeed, there are also reasonable arguments against this discussion, but we still have to get back to what we are solving. And actually, we have to solve the question of Estonia's integrity. In every corner of Estonia it must be possible to live and receive services for tax money. We have a uniform tax system and we cannot make any distinctions here. And, in fact, that is precisely why the European Union's subsidies have been put into effect in order to compensate for these shortcomings with these development funds. It saddens us that at this crucial moment we are actually passing [the problem], say, the government will solve it. He made a plan, but he will also solve this problem on the basis of an implementing act or a special provision of an implementing act. At the same time, we know that financial scissors, differences in the capacity of self-financing in local governments, are growing very strongly. So, in fact, it is as if we are increasing this pace, rather than slowing down, by leading the country on a declining path. Unfortunately, the Group of the Fatherland cannot support this. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U172	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party supports this bill. When I listened to these presentations here, I couldn't resist the temptation, and I came to make a small comment. Listening especially to the story of Paul Puustusmaa, I remembered the film "Mr Bean." The poor man, the protagonist, became an art reviewer against his will, and then he thought and thought and said, "This country is great. "Paul's in a bit of the same situation, he has to say something, and then he says, "Here's 100 pages." [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But in general, I actually tried to sift out what you wanted. It is such an apolitical official paper that provides a general framework for the implementation of money. There's no political charge here. And this whole thing has been prepared by two previous governments. EKRE has been a party of the Minister of Finance for two years, if not three years, and has not complained about anything. Now he says that the money is unworthy, we reject him. Sootid and Isamaa talk about how not everything is written here, isn't it the role of the Riigikogu and so on? It's never been any different. If I really wanted to know what you were gonna say, I wouldn't know. I'm listening and I don't understand what you're saying. Do you really want money to be distributed to specific projects in debate at this level? Are you kidding me?! A zillion intermissions are one thing, and another is completely empty talk. Why do you come to the remote if there's nothing to say? You just don't have to resist. This is your own bill, it is the money you have adopted, it is a politically neutral step. There's no point in fucking around. There's no point in criticizing. I'm not gonna rip my shirt and tell you everything's perfect here. But since I was a leading reader on this bill, I wanted to know why you're critical all of a sudden in this hall. Who are you playing this game for? Honestly, you can't write a thousand political goals on every piece of money, every piece of money, because in real policy making, applying all the principles of government that you want and which are the only basically described by the Soviets, you actually count. And one of the basic principles has been that there is no difference between euro and local tax money. There is still a need for some general principles, regional principles [to be taken into account]. And regional policy is not about giving money to bears. Maybe some people will go there too, I don't know why, feed or live in the woods. No, unfortunately, money comes with people a lot, but both euro money and ordinary tax money are squeezed out of Tallinn. It'll be done, I promise. But there are also super-Estonian projects, there are also some things that are directly related to a person's life that he will not be deported to where money is sent in advance, which really shows statistical numbers that are not exactly burning from regional influence. But that's the real life. Still, there's actually quite a bit of money going on here for the animals, but it's still going on for the people. So take your tone off, don't go chatting on the remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U174	I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. And we will begin the preparation of the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 487 on the implementation of the Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, for the 2021-2027 period. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U175	With the result of 53 by, 24 against, the draft was supported and passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U176	Our fifth item today is the third reading of the International Sanctions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act 492. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any calls. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I am voting on the International Sanctions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act 492. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U177	With the result of 76 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U178	The sixth item is the third reading of draft law 494 on the amendment of the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Proposal by the lead committee: final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I don't see any objections. I am voting on the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 494. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U179	With the result of 76 votes against and 0 abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U180	The seventh item is the third reading of draft law 507 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. Lead committee... Still is. Mr. Ligi, I'd like to ask for a quicker finger, or I'll go past you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U181	Thank you, Mr President. You're so busy with your mouth, it's just my fingers can't catch up. But I came here with these two feelings. I think this message, however, is important. We have tabled 600 amendments to this draft by one of the EKRE members concerning bus stops. On the one hand, I should be grateful that they've been withdrawn, and to acknowledge it, but you can't really throw a thing, let's say, out of the food of unpleasant substance, and then you still want to eat that food. Money laundering is one of the most delicate topics that, by [dividing] the EKRE, but not only, has been trying very intensively to overwhelm Estonia. In fact, money laundering reviews are a critical issue for us. We have an assessment of MONEYVAL's money laundering situation coming up and Estonia is at great risk of falling into the grey zone with very serious consequences for business and banking. However, this avalanche of amendments fell upon us. It's playing with gasoline and matches, that's not supposed to happen here anymore. In the same way, all this money laundering propaganda should actually end with the finger of the past and try to put away its political competitors. The fact is that we were the Minister of Finance at the time of the previous MONEYVAL evaluation, but I [won't want to say] that all of this was due to me, but the fact is that we were the best in terms of regulation in the European Union and that regulation was then appreciated. Everything has changed at the moment, with a new assessment to be carried out on a risk-based basis. And that's why this bill is extremely important, because crypto money companies, crypto currency service, are our biggest remaining money laundering risk. So you shouldn't joke about things like that. Finance Minister Helme also realized this two or three years ago and began to control these money laundering crypto companies. Here is the next step, and I hope that this political game will now end on the subjects of crime and the underworld, and all members of the Riigikogu will not only vote in favour of it, but will also stop throwing mud at Estonia and spotting Estonia's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U182	Mr Kaalep, would you like to speak up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U183	No, a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U184	We do not have the opportunity to reply at third reading, either to speak on behalf of the group or to come to the remote. There's no reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U185	I was identified by Mr. Ligi. I just want to say that these accusations about damaging Estonia's reputation, playing with fire and so on have been encountered in a situation where, in fact, under the banner of combating money laundering, a thing is being carried out in the interests of the banking cartel, aimed at eating out of the financial market of all kinds of alternative currencies. This is the real content and we have managed, with our proposals, to neutralise this threat to a large extent, which is a very positive result. That is why my group and I are still not voting against this draft. However, since there are certain risks that limit entrepreneurship and innovation, we will not vote for it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U186	The President shall make it clear that a reply is, however, possible when mentioned in the statement. But unfortunately, there's no reclining for the reply, Mr. Near. Aivar Chef, please! I need to apologize for a moment, Mr. Ligi has a procedure. I know it's not procedural. Mr. Ligi, please do not abuse the procedural [under the label]'s ability to recite the reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U187	I do not want to abuse this format and ask you if I should get confirmation of this procedure? The previous colleague recognized that the hat was burning in his head because of the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U188	The manager doesn't make emotional assessments. Jürgen Ligi is done. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U189	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker came here on the previous item and said that there was no point in just talking warmly. But we just heard the same thing a moment ago. We should be honest. I think most members of the Riigikogu support this bill, and the Fatherland supports it, but bringing it to the hall was very ugly. The ugliness began when the draft was introduced in the committee, it was said that it would have to be adopted by that date. I do not know whether 101 members of the Riigikogu will decide for themselves or whether the government will come and they will. This draft was approved by the Committee on Monetary Affairs [made]. I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission for the fact that these improvements were introduced in cooperation and practically by consensus. But if these improvements had not been included in this bill, I would ask whether we would have liked to support such a bill. Let us honestly admit that this bill has simply been translated into paper from one of the [back] countries. And there are very few people in Estonia who understand what this bill is about and what is actually behind all crypto money and virtual currencies. I remember a few years ago, they came to our committee and said that this thing had to be stopped. In Estonia, there are fewer than ten companies that deal with crypto money in hundreds, other countries. In Estonia, the goal could be that there are five of them. I am not a great supporter of crypto money brokers, and the income of the Estonian state budget does not grow much from whether or not they are here in Estonia. When one company manager in the Commission introduced his activities and said that the turnover is almost half a billion, but the state tax is less than 100,000, I realized that this is usually the case for a family business, only the turnover is not that high. The payment is about that size. On top of that, one law firm quickly said that they paid considerably more than this company. Is it necessary to regulate this area? I think we all recognise that it needs to be regulated. And we know that some of the money that should not be used there is also being used to mediate virtual currencies today. But does this mean that if one or two companies do not do their job as we would like, we should draw a hat [over the eyes] for everyone else and say that we will eliminate you? I don't think that's what we want. I think we always have to be honest. And once again, I would like to congratulate all the Members of the Commission. There were four or five issues and points that were irrational and could not be met by entrepreneurs. Now the numbers have been taken to the right order of magnitude, which guarantees that these companies are not simply being made on the real shelf to sell them to someone and to serve them from time to time the next day. And there is also a reasonable time for companies to move their share capital to new heights. The size of the share capital will depend on which services are offered up to EUR 250000 [euro]. That's, I think, reasonable for a banking service. So I propose that all members of the Riigikogu support this bill and show that good work was done in the committee. But once again, I stress that this draft was approved in the Commission. What came here, I wouldn't say badly, was that a bunch of improvements were proposed by a member of the Riigikogu. Perhaps the [proposal] was also better thought through in the Commission and in the Ministry and the amendments proposed and voted in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U190	I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 507. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U191	In favour of 59, no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U192	The eighth item is the draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on Employment Capacity Support 517. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see a negotiation request. The commission's proposal for a third reading is a final vote. We just voted, are you ready to go to the final vote? Thank you! I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Act on Employment Capacity Support 517 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U193	Before I hit the hammer, Helle-Moonika Helme, by mistake? Well, it was an accident. Let's take the microphone off. The bill supports 70, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. All right, ladies and gentlemen. As the Bureau set the deadline for the debate on the amendments to our proposed statement for today's additional sitting at 3.15 p.m., the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs are now invited to meet in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to discuss the preparation of this statement for the further sitting. In this respect, I will take the chairman's break 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U195	Let's move on to the agenda. The ninth item is the second reading of the Draft Act 471 on the Approval of Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the draft 471 currently under discussion took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 14 February. The members of the Legal Affairs Committee, the advisers of the Commission and the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs Liis Tõnismaa and Ethel Bubõr, as well as the head of the Estonian Shipowners' Association Indra Kaunis and the lawyer Natalja Tuvi of Consolato del Mare OÜ were also invited. We recall that this is the approval of the 2018 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation initiated by the Government of the Republic. No amendments to the draft were received by the Commission at first reading. Commission advisor Linnar Liivamägi explained that this draft could be adopted at second reading, i.e. today, and he proposed that it be sent to the House for second reading and that the final vote be taken on 23 February. However, there was also a brief debate and I would like to highlight a question. It was examined whether the shipowners had a chance to insure themselves against hijacking. It is also known that this Convention covers cases of piracy against ships. Counsellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs Liis Tõnismaa replied that this bill does not deal with insurance cases and, as far as he knows, no such insurance option exists for shipowners. Indra Kaunis, the head of the Estonian Shipowners' Association, added that I hope insurance companies will start offering appropriate insurance to shipowners in the future. Procedural decisions were also taken: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 February, that is to say, to conclude the second reading and also to conclude the final vote. There were six members of the Commission on the side of this initiative, Mr Jürgenson, Mr Kannimäe, Mr Kaskpeit, Mr Pikhof, Mr Tiidus, Mr Toomast, and Mr Kruusimäe abstained. That's the story. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U197	Good waitress, it seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U198	I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U199	Thank you! As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is a final vote. We also need to prepare this nicely. Really, really! Of course, actually, you could invite in and then negotiate, then there are more people, but still. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act approving the 2018 amendments to the International Labour Organisation Maritime Labour Convention Code initiated by the Government of the Republic 471. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U200	With the result of 59 votes against and no abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U201	Our 10th item on the agenda today is the second reading of draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Implementation of the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy. Aivar Kokk, vice-president of the Monetary Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U202	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 February, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the preparation of a draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union for a second reading. The amendments were one, made by the Isamaa Group. In addition, the Estonian Oil Association, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation passed their opinion. In its opinion on the draft, the Committee on Rural Affairs identifies the need for a draft and supports the continuation of the procedure. The idea of the fatherland amendment was that specially labelled diesel could also be used for heating homes and other buildings. Estonia is a [exceptional] country in the region because the excise duty rates are 20 times higher than in Latvia and Germany and 60 times higher than in Lithuania for diesel fuel that could heat homes. Homeowners with heating equipment based on fuel oil could pay considerably less, today they are paying considerably more than neighbouring countries. There should be 200,000 homes in Estonia with a heating solution for oil heating and more than 100,000 homes that could heat with suitable fuel oil. The majority in the Commission did not support this proposal. It was argued that light fuel oil is a fossil fuel and that it is not appropriate to further encourage its use by reducing the excise duty. This would give the opposite message with the country's previous political decisions. The Commission also made consensual decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 23 February and to propose that the second reading be terminated, and when the second reading is completed, the third reading be held together with the final vote on 9 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U203	Mr. Kranich, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U204	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have been talking a lot about the special labelling of liquid fuel and the costs associated with it. Do you also have a comparative analysis at the Commission's disposal of how much this specific labelling activity and its control costs compared to the possibility of simply paying direct support to people receiving this special labelled fuel? Is there such an analysis and is it at your disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U205	Thank you. This analysis is not in use by our Commission. This bill creates the situation that there is a one-off cost. After that, only those agricultural and fisheries undertakings that have been granted this right can obtain specially labelled fuel through the PRIA and computer programs. And 90% of agriculture has these fuel storage facilities on their own territory, 10% goes to gas stations. In the course of this debate, there was a concern as to whether the gas station chains would continue to sell specially labelled fuel everywhere. Perhaps there may be a situation that in some regions with some small farmers, the fuel chain will not spend the time buying in the new programme and selling specially labelled diesel fuel. However, one of the objectives of the draft is, on the one hand, to reduce the misuse of specially labelled diesel fuel and, on the other hand, to reduce its control expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U206	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U207	Thank you. Improving this administration is, of course, noble, but with very little effect. Why do you think farmers should be supported by subsidising fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U208	Thank you, Jurgen! I understand that as long as you have been in the Riigikogu, you have been a supporter of the European Union. And if it has been agreed in the European Union that agriculture will be supported through specially labelled fuel, it would be very bad if Estonian farmers were put at a disadvantage than farmers from other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U209	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U210	Thank you. From your answer to my first question, I understand that you do not have such an analysis at your disposal. However, this whole bill is based on just like a certain principle of austerity, to which nothing can be said in return. However, as a member of the Commission, do you intend to request such a comparative analysis [to be carried out] in order to assess the specific labelling of fuel as such versus potential effective direct payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U211	Thank you. This is the subject that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has actually been discussing, I think, for the last ten years. However, it has not been possible to reach an agreement, for example, to start [taking into account] the amount of fuel that has been specially labelled, the amount of revenue and expenditure and, according to this, the amount of support [to be paid]. As you know, farmland cultivation costs vary. This depends on which area and with which relief the farmland is, whether it is soft and pleasant, just soily or rocky. Since such a good solution has not been found so far, the proposed solution is what has been agreed as a compromise between the Ministry, on the one hand, and farmers, on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U212	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U213	Thank you. Good waitress! I do think that, although you also support the European Union, you do not agree with it unconditionally. I hope you do not agree with everything your party does, even though you support it. And even though you must love your wife, you will not obey her in everything. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That is why I am actually asking: why must agriculture be supported by subsidising fossil fuels? I am not challenging support for agriculture. I object to my question of subsidising fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U214	Thank you. Jürgen, I know on Saturdays, when your husband cleans up at home, you push your fist out from under the bed and ask who's in charge of the house. After you get your fingers on with a broomstick, you're gonna be sorely asking, honey, if you can't ask me again. So I guess we, men, listen to our husbands and try to support them. Perhaps we try to turn these desires into our own desires and move on. I think fossil fuels, which, Jürgen, are like those "close to the heart" to you, which you are constantly trying to say is that everything is very bad, I am laughing that the same fossil fuel was natural gas a few months ago, but you see, now the European Union has decided that it is environmentally friendly and renewable. We don't know what tomorrow will be. But we forget one thing every time we talk about fossil fuels. Not all countries have oil shale. Not all countries have timber, as much forest as Estonia has. We are, like Enoch Haamer, a famous minister, said, a nation chosen by God. We have those opportunities. And they always argue against the possibilities of countries that do not have them. Of course, it's very easy for Norway to say that we're all going for hydroelectric power. Estonia could also go, but the rivers where this energy and electricity are produced are relatively few and most have been exploited. Estonia [this energy] does not have enough. I am certainly of the opinion today that, if we are on one of the European Union's markets, we should try to treat businesses in the same way, whether it be agriculture or some other area. There is no way to say that Estonia's, drive electricity, we still produce oil shale, it is much cleaner if we drive diesel, which is an oil product. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U215	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U216	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! Today, the price of diesel is 1.53 and, if there were no specially labelled fuel for farmers and the resulting benefits, the consumer would hardly be able to pay off everything that would result from the price of the product today [as a cost]. That is why Member States are given the possibility to tax fuel specifically labelled differently. But I'm asking you this question. If the price of special fuel in Latvia and Lithuania is 60 euros per 1000 litres, but there are 100 euros in Estonia or, in fact, 130 euros, temporarily 100 euros, then how should the Estonian farmer compete with Latvian and Lithuanian farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U217	Thank you for a very good question, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Committee on Finance sincerely expected such a proposal from the Committee on Rural Affairs. That is why the Committee on Monetary Affairs called on you to make this proposal. We had this debate in the Commission, but this is clearly the area of the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Committee on Finance still listens to the messages and wishes and suggestions of specialists and experts in its field.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U218	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U219	Thank you. Good waitress, was there any mention in the Commission of a popular issue that has recently been raised: excise duties on fuel, their reduction, VAT rates? The Prime Minister, too, has said yesterday or somewhere in the media, that he is ready to discuss excise rates in the wider context of fuel. Was there also the issue of the European Union's minimum rate, the reduction of this excise duty on a wider scale than on specifically labelled fuel? Or were you dealing with a narrowly marked fuel and didn't widen the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U220	Thank you. First of all, in response to the last question: in the Commission, we clearly discussed the subject of specially labelled fuel. And it was also on the agenda that the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs asked about, about these figures, that we have [excise] higher than our neighbours in Latvia and Lithuania. That is why the Patriotic Union had proposed to allow Estonia to keep excise duties similar to those of its neighbours in order to keep home expenses low. Unfortunately, I can say today that we discussed the subject of VAT here yesterday, and the chairmen of both parties in the coalition speak of one another's victory, although more of the chairman of the Centre Party, which could be humiliated, but when these drafts arrive in the Chamber, unfortunately it will not be supported. But, fortunately, despite my good colleague fighting to the last drop of blood for this, not delaying the extension of keeping excise duties low, the government still proposed this. We supported here in a coherent way that excise duties will be low until 1 May next year, but there is still a long way to go. Our excise duties are much higher than the minimum allowed in Europe. So I think this step in the next few days will be able to reach this hall. And let's hope it comes from the government. Otherwise, if we were to propose this amendment by the opposition, we have thought about it once, it would be rejected and perhaps not discussed at all, but if coalition politicians bring it to the Riigikogu, then perhaps [will] so that excise duties will be brought down. The price of fuel has gone very high today. One question is diesel, but let us look at petrol, which we have not lowered in the Riigikogu either. Many people working in regions outside Tallinn use their own car to get to work and get home from work, and many drive petrol cars, not diesel cars. And these costs have increased along with the increase in home expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U221	Mr. Metsoya, do you have a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U222	Yeah, I have a procedural problem. In fact, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, we complained about the EKRE ambassador when he used the word 'Isamaalite'. It just happened, Aivar Chef, and so did you. If we're picking on the others, maybe we can sort our own shit out right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U223	The Fatherland Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U224	Jürgen Ligi, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U225	I suppose this is where the People's League was thought of. But my procedural question is, is it still the case that, on behalf of the Commission, the remote is simply hoisted personally. Does the Rules of Procedure provide for this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U226	The Rules of Procedure provide that the rapporteur from the Commission shall pass on the debate within the Commission. And in this regard, before I release the chair to Martin, I will ask for my part, since Martin may not have heard the whole debate: a good waitress, you mentioned that there was one amendment. The President has received a paper containing three amendments. Was the waitress wrong, dealt with the solo or did he not mention that there were actually three amendments that came to the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U227	I don't know who Martin is, who you're asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U228	I asked the waitress. If you don't mind, Aivar, if you don't mind what I'm saying here, don't think I'm saying anything wrong. I said before I release the chair to Martin, I'd ask the waitress. It's worth listening. It also makes it much easier to answer than to listen to what is being asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U229	Two proposals were also in favour of the Commission, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U230	Yeah, that's it. Peter Ernits is now asking the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U231	Good manager! Good waitress! I heard that the debate was on renewable energy and green. Do you know if wood is fossil fuel? We have the Chairwoman of the Committee on the Environment tried to instill in us that he is, but Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said that he is not. So, what's your opinion or your commission's?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U232	It is very clear to us that in ten years it will be fossil fuel. In the Committee on Finance, the opinion [to be given] on the transposition of a directive was held by ELAK. The politicians of the two parties, the Fatherland Party and the EKRE, did not support it; coalition politicians supported the tax in ten years' time when the wood was heated, i.e. when the heat was produced. Such a decision has been agreed by ELAK. Our government can go on with this. It is important to ask your colleagues who are in ELAK from your party whether or not they supported this proposal. The Committee on Finance did not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U233	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U234	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I ask whether the Commission discussed why a small private producer who does not apply for the PRIA area payment does not benefit from this benefit. I understand they don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U235	Thank you. There was no such question in the debate on this draft in the Commission; it did not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U236	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U237	Thank you. I'm listening to this talk here, and I think we're going a little too far from this law, from the goal, maybe. The Estonian farmer is the last in the most competitive conditions in Europe, the last one! In the case of a grant, or in the case of a grant, the latter. It's one way to help a farmer. I don't understand why we should be against this. This law is to reduce abuse at the expense of farmers so that [this fuel] is not taken by logistics companies, truckers or anyone else. So I do not know how the esteemed waitress thinks that we should discuss this very widely and thoroughly here. Are we against our farmer being given a little bit of support under competitive conditions compared to a European farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U238	Thank you. My personal opinion is that Estonian agriculture and farmers must be supported if they compete on the European Union market. Other countries [their] will be supported. If you read this bill, I would also recommend that the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs take it very seriously, this bill does not prevent any kind of stealing, the possibility of stealing. Because 90%, as I mentioned earlier, it is not at filling stations, but from containers on farm premises. And this check will be carried out at very random. The rest of the check is whether or not he is entitled to it at that point. And no restrictions on how much specifically labelled diesel can be purchased and used by the company, this bill does not create.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U239	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U240	Good manager! Dear waitress, Yeah, I think that's a nice bill. But I was more excited to know that ten years later, ELAK had taken a decision on wood as fossil fuel, and I was the only fool who voted in the Committee on the Environment that there was no fossil fuel. I kind of got caught up in the mainstream. Is this a normal decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U241	Thank you, Peter! This issue, and this debate, has nothing to do with the draft that we are currently discussing. That's a different subject. And that's what we argued about a few weeks ago in this very hall. There should be discussions in this large Chamber of decisions, not in one committee, so in fact, most members of the Riigikogu do not know what is decided there [in a very small circle], even though there are members of all political parties. These decisions should really be in this Chamber. But today, when we ask for opinions from different committees, we can either support or not support them. As you can see, Peter, our voice is in the desert when we're in opposition. Sometimes people listen, but it's rare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U242	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U243	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Was it also during the debate in the Commission that we are now changing this order and giving very large decision-making powers to officials? The PRIA will decide who deserves and who does not deserve the right to use specially labelled fuel. On one issue, it has already been raised [problem] that those who do not qualify for direct payments [for direct payments] cannot use specially labelled fuel, although there are also such farmers. You said the Commission didn't discuss these issues. Although no amendments can be proposed for the third reading, is it possible that the Commission will still discuss these issues and shape its position? I am very doubtful about this draft that it is very sensible and qualitatively improves something.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U244	Thank you. I admit that, in the preparation of the first reading, I in the Commission had a question as to whether we would give officials [excess] rights. Would it not be more appropriate for us to regulate the rights and obligations of the law and for the company under the law to use specially labelled diesel fuel or not to do so? My proposal was outnumbered. It did not receive any support from the Commission. The position remained that the administration was still very good. I believe that Estonian officials are good, but such decisions should be clearly included in the laws, not the opinion of one or two people, whether or not anyone can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U245	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Now we can open negotiations. But there's no call either. I'm closing the negotiations. Then we can examine the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled to the draft, as we have just identified. The first amendment is tabled by the Isamaa Group and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U246	Thank you. I ask for this very, very good proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U247	Yeah. The saalikutsung first. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the second reading of draft 495 in the context of the revision of the amendments. The first amendment is tabled by the Isamaa Group and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. The Fatherland Group has asked to vote on this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U248	The proposal was supported by 9 delegates, 44 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2, the author of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself has taken full account of this. Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Steering Committee, has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 495 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U249	We can move to the next item on the agenda, which is item 11. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm calling Heljo Pikhof, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, as the rapporteur for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! The draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 October last year. The first reading of the draft act took place in this Chamber on 19 January this year and the deadline for tabling amendments was 2 February this year. By this time no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. However, the Commission also decided to involve the relevant associations and one proposal to supplement the draft was submitted by the Estonian Shipowners' Association. There were no other substantive responses to the inclusion letter. The Legal Affairs Committee prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 14 February, attended by Liis Tõnismaa, Adviser to the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ethel Bubõ, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, Head of the Estonian Shipowners' Association Indra Kaunis, and Law Firm lawyer Natalja Tuvi. The Estonian Shipowners' Association has proposed to restore the text of § 231 (5) of the draft submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs for coordination, together with special regulation, contained in subsection 1 (1) of the draft. This means that a sentence could be added at the end of § 231 (5) that, in the event of an unknown loss, the last calendar day of the sixth month of the month following the month in which the disappearance occurred shall be deemed to be the time of death in the performance of that obligation. The Estonian Shipowners' Association considers that in order to fulfil the obligation to pay wages under the Maritime Labour Convention, it is important to establish a special procedure for determining the time of death in the event of an unknown loss of a crew member, so as not to create a situation in which the shipowner has to pay wages to a person who is not aware of his or her existence. Otherwise, the ship owner must apply the provisions of the General Part of the Civil Code [§ 19 of the Law] and [the Law] on the regulation of the determination of the time of death by court. Thus, the shipowner has to take legal proceedings which entail additional costs in order to terminate the obligation to pay remuneration. This was the explanation of the Estonian Shipowners' Association. If you come back to the original text of the draft text, the explanatory memorandum to the original text of the draft text refers to Article 19 (3) of the TSU, according to which, if a person was lost in a situation which was dangerous to life, or for any other reason could be expected to die as a result of an accident, a person may be presumed to be dead six months after his or her disappearance. However, it does not appear from the explanatory memorandum that the application of § 19 (1) of the TSU has been analysed, according to which the court may declare a missing person to be dead only if there is no evidence that the person is alive within five years. Since the case-law on this issue does not allow conclusions to be drawn as to which provision the declaration of death of a crew member is to take place, it would be reasonable to establish a special regime for crew members, similar in substance to the time limits referred to in Paragraph 19 (3) of the TSU, in order to establish uniform application of the law. That was the opinion of the Commission. The author of the draft act, as I have already said, did not support this proposal and considered that there was no practical need to introduce a special rule. And Paragraph 19 (3) of the TÜS provides an opportunity for an interested person, who may also be a shipowner, to apply to the court for a declaration of death if the person was lost in a situation which was dangerous to life, or for any other reason gives reason to expect his death. In such circumstances, the current law still allows a relatively short period of time without special regulation, i.e. six months after the death of the person, and the six-month period is calculated from the absence of a person's identity. The members of the Commission agreed with the draft author and did not wish to initiate this amendment. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore presented the draft for second reading as unchanged. Now the lead committee on procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 23 February, i.e. today. The proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 9 March this year and to hold a final vote. Also, a majority of the votes in favour is sufficient for the draft to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U251	Thank you. There's a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U252	Good manager! Good waitress! I read with interest this report from your committee and letters from shipowners, shipowners. Correct me, [if necessary] but did I correctly understand that there is a central question that if a shipman or a sailor dies and they want to declare him dead in six months' time or he disappears somewhere, then the sailor cannot be declared dead in six months' time, because for all the other agencies whose representatives may also be dead or gone, this could be demanded? In that case, they would not be treated the same way. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U253	In fact, if we look at the TsÜS, there is [§ 19] paragraph 1, where there is a general rule, and in such a case, if a person was lost in a situation that was dangerous to life, or there is any other reason to assume his or her death, it is possible to declare him or her dead earlier pursuant to § 19 (3) of the TsÜS, but you still have to go to court. The Reeders don't want to go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U254	Peter Ernits again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U255	Thank you. There are interesting things. I couldn't figure out that if, for example, later it turns out that [human] wasn't dead, [was] gone, would he have to pay back that salary? But the main point is that, as I read, there have been no cases of this kind on Estonian shipowners either by pirates or by [other]. It is rather theoretical [the situation], as is this thing of the Dutch sailor of Piirissaare. Or is that not so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U256	Yes, you have well understood that Estonian shipowners have not had these cases. But now, when we talk about the question you asked me, I also asked the question in the committee that if a person goes missing, but turns up later, what happens then. And the answer was that the primary objective of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to limit the obligation to pay wages, but the obligation to pay wages in the Convention is directly linked to the recognition of the seafarer's death. And there can be no exceptions to the death of seafarers. A person can be presumed to be dead six months after his or her disappearance when he or she was lost in a situation where there was a clear threat to a person's life. In such a case, the payment of remuneration shall be limited to a maximum of two years. And Indra Kaunis answered the question that the sailor would be reclaimed for his appearance. He also said that the definition of the date of death of a seafarer for the payment of wages could be regulated separately from the general regime, since the Maritime Labour Act is already a special law. The option is also that a separate clause on the death of seafarers is included in the TSU's death provisions. There is no case law today, in addition to the necessary legislation, and he estimates that even two years after the sailor's death, there is too much to pay. I guess there were different parties here. Indra Kaunis is from the Estonian Shipowners' Association, he said his vision, but Ethel Bubõ, who is the legal adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, thought that the possibility of receiving remuneration in this case would be limited to a maximum of two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U257	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U258	Good manager! Good waitress! Now we have been discussing a question here for a long time, and I have the question: can you tell me how many people will be reported missing or lost because of the work of the sea? We are discussing this here for a longer time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U259	Thank you. Actually, it's, let's say, a theoretical possibility right now. Let's hope this practice doesn't come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U260	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U261	Thank you. I also listened to this debate, and I had a question that if the sailor is missing and the court declares him dead, but he will later show up if he will have to be declared alive by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U262	We did not discuss this issue in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U263	Heiki Kranich, please! [[It's buzzing in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U264	How can I live? Actually, we had a wider question. We also discussed that [general rule] is that it must take [five years] to declare a person dead. So it doesn't happen that a person is admitted to death several times. Rather, we had such a debate. It involves all matters of succession and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U265	Now Heiki Kranich. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U266	Thank you. God would save a human being from being condemned to death several times. Indeed, we all hope that there will never be such cases. But in order for everyone involved to be clear, I'm creating a theoretical design right now. A sailor will be lost, and the circumstances will, of course, be in accordance with the law. In six months, he'll be pronounced dead. Reeder's obligation to pay him his salary ends. It'll pass, well, let's say, seven years. And it turns out it's a live person. In such a case, if he is resurrected, even legally, would he have to be paid by the shipowner afterwards for seven years or six and a half years? Or should the Estonian state pay him this salary after the time of death? Or should no one ever pay him anything for this lost time? How's that for the law? Just so everyone's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U267	Thank you. It seems that you have read the minutes carefully, and that is also the issue we had in the Commission during the debate. Our legal adviser at Linnar Liivamägi's committee replied that if insurance [pays] any sums due to the death of a person and the person shows up, he should pay back, but he does not have to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U268	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U269	I remembered the psalm: "But what do you do there when a sailor is drunk? " I heard you say that we hope that there will be no such cases. But more exciting things happen in life. In order for this bill to be from the perspective of real life, I recommend that everyone read Bruno Traven's novel Death Ship. You'll find out what can happen to sailors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U270	Thanks for the comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U271	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U272	I would, of course, like to thank my good colleague, Mart Helme, for her literary recommendation. But I didn't get an answer to the question. Or, in fact, I realized this answer so that if someone is lost as a sailor in accordance with the law, after six months he will be declared dead, the shipowner's obligation to pay him his salary ends, in seven years he will, probably in very dramatic circumstances, probably be able to get out in very drastic conditions during that time. He will be legally resurrected. No one will pay him a penny for that, as I understand your last answer. On the contrary, it is obliged to repay the compensation received for that six-month period. So is your recommendation to the sailors that you stay lost, don't come back to life for God's sake?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U273	Thank you. No, it's not. I hope no one gets lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U274	I see Henn Põllea has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U275	Thank you. Generally speaking, I have nothing against this bill, but those previous questions really made me think too. Which is why we're trying to legitimize everything, including things that haven't happened. Just as we did here some time ago legitimize the tank inspection of gas cars, although there are no cases that a car in Estonia has ever exploded. There are more and more examples. Even the same story of the Piirissaare sailors and the ban on spreading manure in winter, which is never done. And now here's the thing. We legitimize things that have never happened and hopefully will never happen. Why are we so busy wasting time on nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U276	Thank you for a very constructive question. But the truth is, things have happened in other parts of the world, and they can happen to our shipowners and our sailors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U277	Now it seems there are no more questions. Thank you very much. We can open negotiations, we can also close negotiations. As has been said, there were no amendments to this draft, so we do not need to examine the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 472 be discontinued. The second reading is closed and this item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U278	Today's 12th item is the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto 521. This is a first reading and the rapporteur is Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U279	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I wish everyone a beautiful and dignified 104th birthday of the Republic of Estonia. But when I come to today's item on the agenda, I will present an overview of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related other laws 521. The aim of this draft is to transpose the Directive on transparent and predictable working conditions. The content of this particular directive is to lay down minimum requirements relating to working conditions, including to ensure that essential working conditions are notified in writing. The deadline for transposition of the Directive, i.e. the national deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 August 2022. More specifically, the Employment Contracts Act, the Public Service Act, the Working Conditions Act for Posted Workers, the Health and Safety at Work Act must be amended. This transposition in substantive terms does not require changes of a fundamental nature, but rather certain technical specifications. The Bill complements, for example, in the Employment Contracts Act, the information that the employer has to inform the employee in writing when he starts working. This is a list of § 5 of the Employment Contracts Act. Further information must be provided on the training provided by the employer, on the period of leave to be reimbursed by the employer, the duration of the probationary period, the arrangements for compensation for overtime, the form and the obligation to state reasons of the contract of employment, as well as on the protection afforded by the receiving institutions and taxes. For example, there may be information in the case of social tax that it finances health insurance, first and second pillar pensions and pays taxes to the Tax and Customs Board. As today, information can be provided either in a contract of employment, in a work organisation act or in another written document. If all the information is in the contract of employment, this obligation to notify is automatically fulfilled, but it does not necessarily have to be in the contract of employment. The information documents already concluded, i.e. what has been done so far, need not be amended or supplemented, unless the employee himself asks for information on the additional conditions. If the information changes, the change shall be submitted no later than the date of entry into force of the change and not within one month as before. Under current law, the employer must keep a working conditions document for the duration of the employment contract and also for 10 years after the termination of the contract. The amendments add to the obligation to keep information on the transmission of information on working conditions. It can be a simple copy of an e-mail or something like that, or also the signature of an employee who has been given access to information. In addition, the Employment Contracts Act sets out new principles. The probationary period shall be suspended for the time when the work is prevented. This refers to situations where an employee, for example, falls ill during the probationary period for two or three weeks. That's the length of the probationary period. A new probationary period shall not apply to the renewal or successive conclusion of a fixed-term contract for the performance of similar work, for example where there is a difference of less than two months between the two contracts [under which] essentially carry out the same work. If an employee requests more suitable working conditions from the employer, such as part-time work or other such changes in the organisation of the work, the employer shall reply to the request within 14 calendar days. Should an employee submit more than one application within four months for the same terms and conditions of employment, the employer shall be obliged to reply to one of these requests. There is no need for continuous feedback if the content of the application has not changed and has already been answered. Where an employee relies on or draws attention to an infringement of his or her rights, he or she shall be protected from adverse treatment. For example, when a worker pays attention to non-compliance with work and rest requirements and such. Protection of disadvantaged treatment is wider than the principle of equal treatment, as it is not necessary to obtain protection by a so-called protective feature such as sex or age. The majority of the Civil Service Act meets the requirements of the European Union Directive. There are individual changes, such as the prohibition of unfavourable application of the Employment Contracts Act. The Health and Safety at Work Act is complemented by an employee's obligation to ensure that work or the provision of a service to another person who carries out work does not endanger his or her own life and health or that of others. Its aim is to draw attention to the importance of meeting the requirements of working and rest periods, to prevent and reduce accidents at work, to ensure that the worker's own and others' health is not threatened because the worker is employed in several places at the same time, may be overtired and distracted. The Working Conditions of Workers Posted to Estonia Act also sets out a corresponding list of data that must be notified to the employee for more than one month in the event of posting to Estonia, such as the duration of the posting, the currency of the payment of the fee and the currency of the payment of the fee. Today there is no such obligation to provide information in legislative terms. I'll finish the review. I'll be happy to answer questions if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U280	There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U281	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am now interested in this fact, which is stated in paragraph 24 of this draft: the technical comment on the law is supplemented by a text as follows: 'A reference to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council'. I have taken out this directive and I will see that there are some very interesting things here. Member States shall provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties, including administrative penalties, financial penalties, such as fines or compensation, as well as other types of penalties. What kind of punishment are these other than what, say, our employment contract law uses? Well, I understand that you may not understand, but the question is that we must also apply the European Union directive here and I am interested in what are these types of penalties other than those I have listed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U282	Thank you. By transposing this directive on the European Union, we are making these concrete changes to the law that I have now listed. We do not create new forms of punishment or new forms of punishment from the legislative point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U283	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U284	Thank you. I read here from the end of the bill that no cost is foreseen for municipalities or the state when this law is passed. We sit here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I am not only talking about members of the Riigikogu; there are also officials here. This house, a particular house, does not meet any good conditions regarding health care, [required] working conditions. There are hundreds of such buildings in the country and municipalities. How is it possible that a bill will come before us and that there will be no costs? If we adopt this draft, it is still not intended solely for private operators to create conditions for their employees. The public sector should also create such conditions. In what discussions did you arrive at [the conclusion] that there was no cost? We know that in this very Chamber, which currently employs three, four, five, six officials, the conditions that this directive requires have not been met.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U285	Thank you. Different working conditions requirements are already in the Health and Safety at Work Act. You are probably referring to the existing requirements. The ones that come in, I listed. It is a duty to provide information, it is the obligation to provide certain information and specifically to supplement the health and safety at work law by giving notice to your employer if he or she has another job, and he or she will ensure that working there does not endanger or harm his or her health or the health of others. The point is, if, for example, I or anyone working in two positions at once, in one place for 12 hours, in another for eight hours, there's a clear risk that if I do these two things in a row, I might have some sort of fatigue moment within a 20-hour working day, which is why I'm gonna cause some kind of work accident that I'm gonna get hurt or some other injury. It's changing. Some occupational health conditions that are in the law today will not be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U286	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U287	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for this new piece. But I'm asking what the effect is. I quote: "The extent of the impact of the draft on staff and officials can be considered to be small because changes in their behaviour do not require changes. The frequency of effects is low as the frequency of all changes is rather irregular and rare. The risk of undesirable effects was not identified. " The first, the second, in the same way: the frequency of effects is low, since the frequency of all changes is rather irregular and rare. But why is it [needed] when the impact assessment repeatedly [sayed], I could not all read that the [effects] in different positions are rare or very rare and rather theoretical?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U288	Thank you. Yes, it is, as I referred to, the transposition of the European Union directive, which is due to be transposed by 1 August. In particular, it will ensure that workers are better informed, as I have referred to. Of course, most of the terms in the contract of employment are written, such as probationary periods, overtime compensation and so on, or are clearly in the annex to the contract of employment, because the person has an interest in doing so today. Putting the obligation of information into law still does not change people's interest to know what their probationary period, the conditions for overtime, the opportunities for training and so on. So in this sense, [the situation] will change in particular for those employers who so far have not provided this information to employees for any reason. But I think it makes sense that this information is given to them. This does not require any major change in principle of work, all the more so as all existing contracts remain in force, no one is going to circle them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U289	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U290	Thank you. I mean, I don't think your claim that there are no further penalties. The amendment to this draft is based on a directive of the European Union, and this directive specifically states that other types of penalties may also be used. So you've got that line unsubstantiated. However, I am interested in why the provisions of this directive [as provided for] do not apply to certain types of public officials, such as the armed forces, police, judges, prosecutors, investigators and other law enforcement bodies, taking into account the specific nature of their tasks or their working conditions. This is now a specific reference to the European Union directive again. Please give a specific answer so that everyone can understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U291	I need to be more specific. I honestly admit that your question was not fully understandable, but I refer again to the fact that this directive refers to other possible penalties, and these other possible penalties are still in place, not being implemented by this directive or its law. And as I explained earlier, this particular law is primarily the Act on Information under the Workers' Employment Contracts Act. The Civil Service Act, as I referred to earlier, already meets most of these requirements. There will be no major change in principle, except for the introduction of a ban on unfavourable treatment. Other laws also have a technical nature. So we can look here for more than that, but I'm afraid we won't find it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U292	Procedural, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U293	Thank you, Mr President. How should the President of the sitting act now when the rapporteur comes to present the bill for a remote control without having an absolutely overview of what the matter he actually brought here as a draft is all about? We know exactly that we have to transpose some kind of European Union directive, but if I refer specifically to the application of the directive, he says that there is no such thing. It's clean... Well, that's the real shit that's going on right now. Do you have the right to send this drafter off the remote and tell him to come back when it's clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U294	No, that's not my right. Well, we get a lot of shit going on here, we process drafts without anyone realizing why or what. But we can always vote either to reject or to interrupt the drafts. All of this can be done. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U295	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have now briefly studied this bill, too, and I did not find anything here that would necessarily have to be implemented in Estonian legislation. However, this will add to some bureaucracy. We're going to drown in bureaucracy anyway. My question is: is what has now been put on our tables and what I really do not feel necessary to adopt, because it would qualitatively improve any situation, the minimum that is set out in the European directive? We haven't added anything from our side, have we? Or have we, for our part, added any good ideas that require further coordination, information obligations and other obligations, whether for the employer or for the employee?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U296	Thank you for your question. In essence, I agree that it is of a technical nature and can increase certain bureaucracy, if, for example, the employer has not yet informed in writing on these issues. However, I am of the opinion that, in general, it is reasonable that workers know [exactly] what the working conditions and workplace training are, as well as probation periods, holiday opportunities and so on. That is the purpose of the directive, the content of the directive, so that these matters are recorded and that it is ensured that these conditions are notified in writing. Rather, we have implemented a minimum programme, not some major changes. There has also been a debate on whether all of this should be part of the employment contract, specifically listed there. So far, we have not gone this way, but we are saying that it may also be a form of an annex to a contract of employment or other such document, which, very possibly, already has a large part of employers and which actually reduces their bureaucracy in the sense that it is not necessary to renew the contract of employment, but can be accompanied by a link to additional materials or a written notification form.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U297	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U298	Good manager! Dear Minister, I quote your presentation: the employer will consider whether the wishes of the employee in the application for appropriate working conditions to change the working conditions are reasonably compatible with the interests of the employer's company, and so on. That's the sentence of the bill you said a moment ago. A moment ago, you said there wouldn't be any expense. If an employee requires better conditions from the employer or the conditions for which he is entitled, is the employer entitled to say that he is not complying with them? If he fails to comply, will there be no expense? But if the employee is right and the employer meets these requirements, then there will be costs. How does this transposition of the directive ultimately create an obligation for the employer, on the one hand, in private business and, on the other, in the public sector, on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U299	Thank you. He is also entitled to all the working conditions to which he is entitled today. Perhaps whether we write down that an employer has to respond in writing to an application or not to respond to an application does not change whether, for example, because of my health, due to part-time burden, whichever gives rise to any additional rights. They may also result from parental leave and other such provisions. At the moment, if an employee decides to apply to the employer for any working conditions, for example, he does not want to be a full-time job, but wants to be part-time at work, says that I have a lot to do, I am studying, I have other activities, whether I can spend three quarters of my time at work, then the employer is obliged to answer him within two weeks, i.e. 14 calendar days. This does not mean that he is obliged to offer this opportunity. Of course, I would say that the usual occupational communication is that the employer will answer the employee even if the law does not state that he needs to be answered. It's hard to work when you don't communicate. Perhaps it does not create any additional obligations for the employer, in the sense that it should guarantee any working conditions, but it does make it an obligation for the employer to respond to such requests. As I was referring to, precisely in order not to maximise bureaucracy, such requests must be met once every four months. It is not possible that an employee, for example, sends a new letter every week and asks again whether he receives or does not receive anything. It must be at least four months apart to request the same again that they want to work three-quarters instead of a full load.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U300	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U301	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. According to my personal assessment, the work legislation developed by the Republic of Estonia on its own is sufficient. And if that is not enough, we will also have legal opportunities for both employees and employers to set up their rights. In my brief opinion, this directive worsens the situation of employees and gives a position of strength to the employer. It may be a brief and superficial assessment, but my question is entirely different. Since we have absolutely sufficient legislation in this area, is it when a directive comes from the European Union that we are re-introducing Hammuraki laws that say eye to eye and tooth to tooth, we are taking it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U302	Thank you. The answer is no. I believe that this is not the case in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U303	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U304	Thank you. I agree with the previous speaker that there are points that really worsen the situation of the employee. If we look at § 5 (2) of the Employment Contracts Act in force today, it says: the information on the employment contracts is presented in good faith, clearly and intelligibly. But the bill changes that. According to the amendment, data should no longer be employment contract data and information should be provided in good faith, clear and understandable. In practice, there are many employers who do not comply with § 5 (2) of the Employment Contracts Act, especially when fixing the working time and remuneration agreement. If there is no clear and understandable agreement on working time and pay, it will be extremely difficult for workers to claim unpaid wages. It is therefore very important that the law requires that the information to be agreed upon by the employer in the contract of employment be clearly and intelligibly formalised. This is a trade union proposal, but you have written a comment that has been explained and noted. Why didn't you take that into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U305	Time, Heljo!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U306	Thank you. I'd love to. Just as we do in the labour market, we always do these meetings and discussions in a trialogue with both employers and trade unions, and we try to find a common part, that is, a common agreement, precisely so that, on the one hand, no excessive bureaucracy or other obligations are seen for employers. On the other hand, to protect the interests of the workers. In this particular debate, the Ministry of Social Affairs also found that if we stick to this minimum option, or ensure that important working conditions are notified in writing, listing them in the law, that is enough. Indeed, trade unions preferred a contract of employment. This is a completely legitimate debate; certain points must still be in the contract of employment. The question is, how much does the employment contract have to include in the work organisation? At the moment, we are sticking to the fact that the requirements that must still be fixed in the contract of employment remain there, but the additional points that I have read about in connection with the same overtime, the duration of the probationary period, may also include other forms of communication, such as the work organisation act, in another written document. This was simply a really compromise reached in the trialogue negotiations. If you're asking whether it's on the trade unions side or on the employers side, I'm hearing criticism from this hall today from both directions. So I guess it's balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U307	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U308	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. We are currently discussing Directive 1152. And actually, that's pretty much what I'm saying, mandatory for transposition. Therefore, there is no need for a plan to be drawn up, since 1 August it must be in force. But the effect is almost nonexistent, although it is in any case much worse for employers than for employees. But I ask why my colleague, Lauri, was welded by him under Directive 1937, that is the law of the protection of [the person to be informed] of the violation of [the person to be informed] to that button on the whole fancy coat, the coat of national appeal. Didn't it make sense for you to scrape all the stuff out of the ministry drawers and weld some little coat to this kind of pointless directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U309	Thank you. First of all, I note that, even within one group, there is no single understanding of whether it is inclined towards employers or employees. This once again shows that he is putting an obligation on both sides, as is the case with employment relations. However, we did limit ourselves to those points, as I referred to, which are necessary under the directive. If we have any other, bigger proposals, we will come up with separate laws, just as they have always come from time to time and will continue to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U310	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U311	Thank you. I would come back to the same paragraph and repeat that, if it is now stated that the information on the contract of employment is presented in good faith, in a clear and understandable manner, the amendment provides that the employer shall inform the employee of the information in good faith, in a clear and understandable manner, and that the data should no longer be the data on the contract of employment. And information as an activity should be in good faith, clear and understandable. I don't understand if you're saying that everything's fine for the employee right now. In fact, I would argue that on the contrary, many important data may not be understood by workers if they are not written down. And later, it's gonna be really hard to challenge, like, pay or vacation or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U312	Thank you. Let's just say, of course, that the employer and the employee must understand equally what they have signed. What is a contract that is its annexes, which are operational matters. The laws apply uniformly to both parties. If you have any suggestions for drafting, it is, of course, possible to do them during the work of the Committee on Social Affairs. Nothing's cut in stone. This is the current proposal prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with the social partners. I referred to where these main disputes and discussions were and which were the main agreements. If there is a need to add terms that add weight, then of course this can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U313	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U314	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that there have been questions in the Chamber with very opposing opinions, and perhaps the draft is very good and balanced. Well, another conclusion can be drawn: the draft is very confusing and people understand it differently, which is why it is a very poor quality draft. I continue to believe that this in itself does not add anything qualitatively to employment relations and increases somewhat pointless bureaucracy. But I also have a specific question to illustrate. Maybe you can just explain how meaningful it is in one example. Before starting a job, the employer must inform the employee of the training provided by the employer. Is that absolutely necessary? I imagine that very many employers may not even know what training opportunities they may have or what needs they may have for one employee or another. And now we need to be informed before we get to work. I do not think that this is a very practical and sensible requirement. Now we're legitimizing it on the law level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U315	Thank you. On the one hand, it is our desire that people develop themselves, that employees attend training courses, that they make use of learning opportunities. And if the employer has training to offer, for example, specific training days, some internal training opportunities, then it is reasonable that the employee knows about them well in advance. If they are not known, this is exactly the way to write down, in which case the employer does not have training to offer. Of course, writing it requires some additional work, but it is still a one - time process. If you write this procedure into a written document, work organisation act or similar document, then in the future it will simply be necessary to send the same link or specific attachment to new employees. There are always certain procedures in the formalisation of the employment relationship, and there must be some bureaucracy. We can't imagine people coming to work with a verbal agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U316	Thank you very much. No further questions. It is now possible to call Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation for the first reading of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 February. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, Ethel Bubõr, Maria-Helena Rahumets and Seili Suder also participated in the Commission meeting to present the draft. The Minister explained the content of this draft to the Members of the Commission well, as he has just done here. Let it be reiterated, however, that the transparent and predictable working conditions that this draft deals with mean, in practice, that the amount of information which the employer must inform the employee in writing before taking up his duties. These examples already sounded, but I'll bring out a few more. These include training that an entrepreneur can inform in advance, and what career opportunities an employee has within the company. Makes perfect sense. However, [the letter must also include] compensatory leave, probationary period, arrangements for overtime and compensation, the form of termination of the employment contract and so on. And as has already been heard here, this list includes an extension of probation by the time a person is ill on probation. The Minister also informed the Commission that these amendments had been discussed with various employers and trade unions, some of whom had submitted their additional proposals to the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs, but there were no substantive disagreements about the changes. Members of the Commission also had questions. For example, the Minister was asked to provide an example of a practical case that would explain the impact of the transposition of the Directive on employers. The Minister replied that employment relations, for which all the conditions relating to employment are listed in the contract of employment, would not have a major impact and that contracts would not have to be recirculated retroactively. However, the employers affected by the amendments to the bill will be those who have so far made employment contracts without fulfilling the minimum requirements and have largely informed their employees orally. It also asked what the impact of this draft would be, given the change in the nature of the work in relation to technological developments and the increase in the volume of teleworking, not only now but also after the pandemic. The Minister replied that the draft did not deal with these amendments. But I personally say, indirectly, they also influence different forms of work. The Commission made procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 23 February, to propose that the first reading be closed. Both proposals were supported by the members of the Commission Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Kaskpeit, Pikhof, Tiidus, Toomast, against Kruusimäe. And it was proposed that the deadline for the amendments be set at 16 o'clock on 10 March in this regard was a full consensus and that Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, was appointed as the representative of the commission. The full consensus and those who reached this consensus were also Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Tiidus and Toomast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U318	So is the question. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U319	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to this discussion, as far as possible, and I also had questions for the Minister, but I did not have time to ask. However, on the procedural or organisational side, I would ask you that, since this is a contract of employment and such problems for people and employees, did you also ask the Social Affairs Committee for an opinion? I think this is important because, for example, here is the subject of informing the contractor in writing about leave or training. After all, there have been some differences, for example, in the case of employees with reduced employment capacity. Do they also need to be informed about the differences that affect employees with reduced capacity to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U320	That's a good question. Did we ask for the opinion of the Social Affairs Committee? No, I didn't, but the points that you just pointed out here are important. They are enshrined in our labour legislation and this draft does not preclude compliance with them. But in itself, in the committee, we are discussing this, and the chairman of the committee will certainly take the view that suddenly [this opinion] should be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U321	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor at first reading. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U322	Good manager! Honourable ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, When listening to the Minister's presentation, many members of the Riigikogu asked questions. If you look at the same draft, it is very clear here: "The extent of the impact of the draft on staff and officials can be considered small because changes do not require changes in their behaviour. " And while we start reading what the changes are, there are a lot of them. I do not know that, as a change for employers and the authorities, there is a greater obligation to inform their employees and officials. It makes sense on the one hand, you should still be informed, but why write that there are no changes? Actually, there are changes for employers, it's a whole bunch of bureaucracy. A normal relationship between employer and employee is natural, positive and good. I think that, in today's economic situation, every employer keeps his employees as tenderly and gently on padlocks, because every employee is very important. But there will be very interesting offers. If I hire a person on probation and he goes on a blue page the next day and is sick for four months, this probation period will be extended exactly as long as he's on sick leave. In other words, I need you to work, this job needs to be filled, you come to work, but tomorrow you think, well, it's not that, and I get a blue page too. But I can't hire another person for four months either, because I have an agreement with you that you might be back in four months. If we are to transpose the directive, it should be the transposition of the directive. But look at the same bill that developed it: the officials of the four ministries. I don't get it now. When we transpose the directive, we will translate it from English into Estonian and see if the points fit. And these disputes are ongoing before the directive reaches the point where it will be distributed to the Member States of the European Union. But in reality, one authority or [in the present case] the officials of the four ministries have put it together. We do not really know today whether this is a direct transposition of the directive or whether there are still very many issues that are not, in fact, directly related to the directive. We don't count that out of here. And those people who can look inside as a whole, [are few]. I don't know, I would have liked to have special needs here. If it were here how we could support people with special needs to get a job, their opportunities, I would support it with two hands. But if I just read that there is a lot of warm talk and a lot of bureaucracy, and [explaination] is that there will be no obligation to take over this bureaucracy, it is wrong. I'm sad to see. I hoped that the working conditions of 300 very good people working in this house would improve when transposing this directive. Members of the Riigikogu are not covered by it. But the people who are helping us in this house, I'd like to see which offices have very good conditions. No ventilation, no lighting such [if necessary]. When one member of the Riigikogu proposed that [working conditions] be reviewed, it was said that there is no point in dealing with it. Actually, we need to deal with it. Yes, they are also costs, but they are necessary costs. In my opinion, such matters should have been dealt with more when transposing this directive, not just because there is one piece of paper saying that there is nothing necessary there, but it has come from the European Union and this package should be accepted. I hope that this will be discussed very seriously in the Commission in the preparation of the draft law for a second reading and will look at what important issues need to be added to it. And maybe there are areas that shouldn't be inside. Once again, I would like to see more on this side, where the opportunities and conditions for people with our special needs have been improved and where the public official, the public sector issue, too, is very clearly stated, so that there is no situation in which [only] private operators are given enormous responsibilities. At the same time, we know that one quarter of our employees are in the public sector, but it is said that the public sector does not have the means to improve working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U323	Thank you. It is now the case that the EKRE Group has received a proposal to reject the draft at first reading, but for this to happen... Sorry, I messed up the bill number! It's okay, it's okay. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 521 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 10 March at 16 a.m. This item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U324	We can go to the last point today. Section 13 is the first reading of the draft Act on Accessibility of Products and Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Signe Riisalo, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! With regard to the draft law on accessibility of services and products, we probably cannot talk about a small impact, because the circle of persons we will treat better when this law enters into force as a whole is quite extensive. There are over 146000 people with special needs who may have disabilities of different degrees of severity in Estonia. Older people, who may have problems with accessibility due to reduced functionality, be it eyesight, hearing or movement, have more than 270000 in Estonia. Children and young people whose accessibility may be hampered by their social competence, but also by growth, are 20.3% of our society. In addition, we need to think about all those people who move by pushing the pram, as well as those who have temporary health problems. The draft directive on products and services is also a transposition. This is a directive that we could be honoured to take over, because during the Estonian Presidency, Estonia was the country that was carrying out the negotiation process on [this subject]. Speaking of this draft, I consider it very important that, just as accessibility is cross-cutting, so the preparation of this draft has also been the cooperation of several ministries. In addition to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications plays a very important role, including the main implementer. As regards specific services and products, the Ministry of Culture has a major role to play, as does the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. What services and products are we talking about? First of all, it is important to realise that we are talking about digitalisation, smart and innovative solutions. This is something that is characteristic of Estonia. I believe that the Estonian IT sector will also be able to offer its products and services on international markets. For example, a ticket machine, a cash and payment machine, a registration machine, a payment terminal, a information terminal; a consumer terminal device such as a smartphone, a digital box, a digital converter, a smart router, a modem, as well as a desktop computer, a laptop, a tablet and an e-luger, are products covered by this bill. On the service side, it is important to mention electronic communications services, certainly 112 emergency calls, which have been made somewhat more accessible to people with special needs, but not yet fully available. From transport services, those relating to the sale of electronic tickets, various financial services, e-commerce services, websites, mobile applications, e-book service, these are the services and products we are talking about within the framework of this draft. The draft has a problem, as has already been said, with the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which is the supervisory authority. The regulations that will be introduced under the law have been prepared in cooperation with the various ministries and there are also more detailed requirements. It is important to understand that the task force, which has been working at the State Chancellery and has also issued its own recommendations to improve accessibility for people at national level, has highlighted all the electronic devices, services and products for which there is a lack of access in Estonia today. The adoption of this law will certainly help to develop wider technical awareness, not only among IT companies, but also among consumers. The consumer is not only an individual who has a special need here, but also a transport company, which must install smarter and more accessible ticket shopping opportunities in its means of transport or transport, and more intelligible solutions for [create] mobility. As regards this draft, it is also important to understand that, in addition to the adoption we should adopt, including by 28 June, these requirements will apply on 28 June 2025. Perhaps it is also important to note that on the application side, these things will not all enter into force immediately and simultaneously. Applications are designed so that we can move forward with existing solutions from 2028 onwards. However, new services and products that do not meet the requirements of this law cannot be placed on the market. The old, contract-covered services and products can be used until the contract expires, but no longer than 28 June 2030. These deadlines are quite long, but here it must be understood that we are talking about quite complex products and services, which are not all created in Estonia and for which the international market is also very important. You will also be interested in the fact how many Estonian companies might be affected by this bill, so they will have to comply with the provisions of the law in their activities, for example when we talk about products such as computers, desktops and tablets, as I read before. They must be more accessible in the future. There are fewer than 20 such computer manufacturing companies in Estonia. There are around 100 software wholesale companies, but they are mostly micro and small enterprises with up to 50 employees. The most numerous are transport companies, especially bus and coach transport companies, which we have more than 500. They are also affected by this change. Most of them are small or micro-enterprises in the same way, and the self-employed have quite a significant share. We have about 350 companies involved in the sale of electronics and telecommunications equipment, a few dozen of which are small and micro-enterprises. Now, in e-commerce, we are actively engaged in 2000-3000 businesses, most of which are micro-enterprises and only a dozen are small businesses. The circle of affected companies is therefore quite large. On the other hand, the transitional period is long enough and it must be taken into account that many of the products we are talking about have actually been produced outside Estonia. We are users, consumers and our entrepreneurs are often also importers. I'd stop right now. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U326	Thank you very much. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U327	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This law will be monitored by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which will be empowered by this law to carry out compulsory transport, to force procedural procedures to endure and to provide the information requested. The Bill gives [the Office] the right to enter without the holder's consent and to inspect movable property, to enter in the possession of movable property in the performance of its supervisory duties, in order to verify for itself which media are held in the person's dwelling, workplace or elsewhere. And, of course, [there is also the right to impose a penalty]. Aren't you familiar with this? The Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act has exactly the same processes inside. My question: why do you want to divide a already divided society with this law even more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U328	Thank you very much for your question. You have listed the national supervision measures and if the national supervision measures set out in the Law Enforcement Act are to be implemented by a specific authority in order to comply with a specific law, they must also be specifically stated in that law so that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority does not carry out own-initiative activities, but has these rights and bases clearly stated by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U329	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U330	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Unlike the previous draft or directive, which had a more symbolic meaning, it has a very significant meaning. One and a half people from the city of Tartu or the whole of Lasnamäe. And I've counted that there are some 3,000 or 4000 companies that are going to be costing, as has been said here, 1% of development costs and maintenance. Can you tell me how much it really costs? I mean, you could have some money. I would stress that the basis for this draft is very large, but how much will it cost these companies, above all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U331	Thank you very much. We are actually talking about companies that are partly producers themselves. They simply produce different products from the perspective, which are universally designed and give access to better use to those people for whom we do this law largely. I see this as a huge opportunity for start-ups in Estonia to be more competitive on the global market and, above all, on the European market in order to offer their services and products. We're talking about companies that I brought up, for example. In bus and coach transport, as well as in all other areas, digital solutions are ageing, both physically and morally, whether renewed or not. And the following digital solutions will meet the new requirements: I would like to remind you that, if this draft is to be implemented in 2025 as a whole, it will be possible to continue in the same way after 2025 on the basis of the agreements in force until 2030. This is an extremely long transition period, which is proportionate and gives companies the opportunity to take into account future change needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U332	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U333	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I'm looking at the bill's list of preparers, and here's an impressive long list of 13 women and just one man. This ratio also reflects well the staff of the Ministry of Social Affairs. There's no sign of men moving around the halls. Now, given this manical demand of gender equality by your ministry, do you think this situation is pretty good, 13 women and just one man?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U334	Thank you for your question. I would not answer the questions of the Social Ministry's personality here, because it does not concern a specific draft. However, as far as the preparation of this draft is concerned, it is indeed a very large number of people from very different ministries who have prepared it, including the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Indeed, Estonian women are good and smart and have transposed such a complex directive, prepared a draft for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U335	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U336	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm a little confused here, so please help me find out a little bit. I understand coercion, but I don't understand how long. Will they be put in jail and for how long? The other thing is that there is the removal of movable property, the revision of the building and the space, [may] remove doors and other obstacles. All such things as police rights. If someone said it was like an industrial espionage, I could see why. Now, if I look at these payment terminals, these very specific things, I don't know how it's connected to accessibility. Such very specific things, in fact, when they are taken away, and documents are still on the back. What does it have to do with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U337	Thank you very much. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is the Supervisory Authority. And the Authority will exercise national supervision. National supervision measures, including specific measures, are described in the Law Enforcement Act. As I said earlier, the possibilities set out in the Law Enforcement Act are also specified in the specific laws as to which national supervisory methods are entitled to be implemented by the specific agency that supervises. As for what is now a coercion, it is stated in the law of order. The enforcement is not related to detention. The imposition is applied for a short period of time, for example, to take some form of statement. I would like to remind you that, for example, the Child Protection Act allows quite the same supervision measures that a child protection worker takes to protect a child in an emergency situation. He's doing this with a police officer taken with him in a professional capacity. In the same way, these national monitoring measures are being implemented here. I see nothing unusual about this, but a rather normal and routine implementation of law enforcement in the context of a special law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U338	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U339	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have already seen a situation in which, within the framework established by the Government Regulation, one agency, the Health Board, when interpreting one law, was able to treat one undertaking half-dead by means of a state coercion. And this law gives the next agency even more rights. The TTJA shall be empowered to apply specific national supervision measures provided for in the Penal Code. But why do we have to think that your government will not use it again to terrorise and bully businesses? And why is there a law that has so many ways of violating human rights again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U340	Thank you for your question. Let me remind you of what this law is for. This law is designed to ensure accessibility for people with special needs. And when this law is implemented, the requirements for services and products are introduced, it is also necessary to check the conformity of these services and products. I repeat, these are rather common national surveillance measures and specific measures implemented by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. I have not identified any abuse of national supervision measures and special measures. And if you refer here to another law and to the events that have taken place, then neither have I, as I know, been subjected to malicious monitoring measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U341	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U342	Thank you! Madam Secretary! I don't know what kind of world you live in, but the fact that in the case of NETS, the employees of the Health Board abused extremely repressive methods is obvious. This has been proven by a number of judicial decisions, as well as by videos. I was there myself when, absolutely without a sign, some kind of health official ♪ I know his name as well, but I'm not going to name it ♪ called for people to come along, identify a person, and no one knew his identity. And if you're saying that there hasn't been such a thing, it makes no sense to me how you can be a minister at all. But I understand that behind this is, in fact, a great demand from officials for this bill to give the next administration great power over the fundamental rights and freedoms of people. I have a question: why don't you straighten your back up and save your name and reputation? Because, let's say, as far as officials are concerned, no one else is taking any more action, you're under attack. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Signe Riisalo, you're under attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U343	Time! Kalle!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U344	Are you okay with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U345	Thank you very much for the question and the explanation of the situation. But, indeed, within the framework of this draft, I would like to leave out an opinion on the supervision activities of the Health Agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U346	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U347	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I don't know if you've heard a name like Andrei Vyšinski. If I read this bill, it's a bill worthy of Andrei Võšinski's name. This is another draft for the introduction of totalitarianism. And I remember, when I was standing on that board in your place, how your group members personally accused me and the previous government of the desire to establish authoritarianism and totalitarianism. And now we see how your government, by billing, has brought us here points of totalitarianism, justifying it by the fact that everything is in the law of law. If everything is in law enforcement law, why do we need to create more such repressive agencies? We have one repressive office that has the corresponding rights, that is the police. How many cops do you think there must be in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U348	Thank you for your question. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority already has these rights to use specific measures today. What will be done with this law? [Enabled] to use the same measures to fulfil its obligations under that law. There's no new and special thing we're hoping for here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U349	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U350	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The gull is no longer in office at TTJA when the law is in force. I hear he's gonna be a deputy chancellor. 200,000 are given to the boys in Kayak so they can kick the doors in. But my question is completely different. Why will this directive apply on 28 June, but not on another day? It's Saturday day for something. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U351	Thank you for your question. I cannot comment on the period of validity of the directive, which has been agreed at European Union level. As far as the resources needed to implement this draft are concerned, these resources are largely intended to train entrepreneurs, produce guidance material, and inform them in order to create a better world for people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U352	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U353	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! The world's most common language is known to be bad English. And this bad English language can be found in this bill on almost every page, which is unfortunately transferred to Estonian law. I'm asking you, for example, the expression "website." We all pretty much imagine what is meant by it, but it also has the correct equivalent in Estonian: a web page or a web page or whatever. My question. Legislation should also be written in good Estonian language. Does the Ministry have a plan, or is it possible to review the law with that look, so that it can be written in clear and understandable Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U354	Thank you for your question. I value clear and good Estonian very highly. But we have quite a number of areas of life, and the digital world is certainly among those where we do not have final agreements in Estonia, which terminology is correct to use. Like any draft, this draft has been reviewed by the language editor and, in the case of these terms, when trying to find the best way of translating so as not to lose meaning, has put their heads together, as has already been said, quite a number of ministries. The [Objective] is that the idea remains the same as in the Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U355	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U356	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Reform Party itself has once very much wanted, or at least has declared, that it wants bureaucracy to be reduced. Unfortunately, this law once again shows how the words and actions of your party differ. This accessibility law does not really regulate accessibility, but only creates additional burdens and creates additional costs. In short, the real question is, do you really honestly believe that this law, along with its hundreds of thousands of new costs, with additional bureaucracy, with new future regulations, can really in some way improve accessibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U357	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I honestly believe that. In particular, we are still talking about those requirements that we could understand in the same way, both consumers and businesses. [These are] to improve people's access. All this monitoring science comes into play only when we see that someone is missing something and that the law has been implemented incorrectly. It is not the intention of this law to go to supervision. Surveillance is an opportunity created here in case someone violates the law. The purpose of this law is to establish a set of rules that will help people who are concerned with hearing loss, loss of vision, or reduced mobility, and people who push the pram will not get anywhere. Or the kid's short and can't get to the bank terminal. These are the things we're talking about. Of course, I believe that this law will improve the situation for these people if they use our digitalised e-services every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U358	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U359	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your previous answer, but I would like to clarify a little bit. How is forced entry, confiscation, access to movable property related to accessibility for people with special needs? I really have to say I don't understand it. Why don't you give me an example so I can understand it better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U360	I repeat, I personally am not a specialist in national supervision. But in all the public oversight agencies, such tools are legally available. Thus, if an undertaking fails to comply consistently with the rules even after the relevant injunctions and reminders have been made, the time limits have passed, then the latter may, as a last resort, apply either the compulsory introduction or any other special measure provided for in national supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U361	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U362	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, we are discussing a draft which, according to the title, is so cute and beautiful: a law on accessibility of products and services, i.e. creating better conditions for people with disabilities. What could we possibly object to? But we have seen that, in fact, within the framework of the Nets, [though] basically the Nets have been made to prevent us from spreading a pandemic, we have been taking human rights in a row and in a row and also violated. But let's see here, isn't there a payment terminal within the scope, for example, whether it meets accessibility requirements or not. Most companies have a payment terminal, and now this law gives [the right] to enter any company in order to control it and then, in principle, to do everything that Mr Grünthal has already read and which is also stated here in § 16 of the Act. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is these specific supervisory measures and provisions that the supervisory provisions and penalties are still proportionate...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U363	Time, Moonika!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U364	...to check the existence or absence of a payment terminal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U365	Thank you very much for your question. I'm trying to explain. In the case of a payment terminal, for example, a person with a loss of vision may not see or understand the amount of money displayed to him at the payment terminal. This means that we need a product that, for example, by means of a voice order, lets him know the amount of money he pays. But if we want to supervise, there are a number of very reasonable ways to do so. When it comes to the deadline for the introduction of innovative innovative digital solutions, it is enough at that moment for an operator using a payment terminal to provide documentation that says that I am using this manufacturer's model and version, which is quite sufficient to be satisfied that the requirements have been met. There is no need for forced entry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U366	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U367	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary, I listened to your introductory remarks when you introduced the bill, and that is actually a completely different story than what we read out of this bill. This bill is such that, in the name of people's happiness, we can shoot people, in the name of people's happiness, as the Bolsheviks did, we can resort to repression. For the sake of people's happiness, you can enter into possession without consent, take action, take people with you all for the sake of human happiness, for the sake of a bright future. Guys, do you realize this isn't adequate? These methods of repression are not sufficient to ensure the well-being of a certain minority. These [people] really need care, but such measures cannot ensure that society has a healthy mentality and that the state and its institutions do not abuse their power. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U368	Thank you for your opinion. Yeah, I get that. I believe I have a pretty good idea of the legal system that exists in Estonia, our legal space, our legal language and [all] this logic. So thank you, I get it!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U369	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U370	Thank you. I must say, unfortunately, that you have absolutely no understanding of the Estonian legal space. Because so far, the organisation of searches, access to premises has only been possible with the permission of the court and the police do so, but you give the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority the right to infiltrate premises, to detain people, to take some movable items and so on. Do you really believe that it will create a better world, as you said? On the contrary, it creates such a totalitarian cosmic world, which people with special needs do not agree with either. They don't want to live in a world where an official can come and kick in the door anytime. Moreover, it is quite clearly unconstitutional. It says that a home, a dwelling, a property, a job and so on are untouchable and that this immunity can only be lifted by the permission of the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U371	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U372	Have you gone mad with your entire government and your coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U373	Thank you very much for your question. I assure you that we follow the same logic that has previously been in legislation in Estonia. Law enforcement is not a law adopted by our government. I can't tell by heart the year number when it was adopted, but under the Law Enforcement Act and as measures of national supervision, all these things have long existed in the Estonian legal space. There's nothing new here. With regard to the exercise of national supervision and the implementation of specific measures, yes, this is done in cooperation with the police in an official capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U374	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U375	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, You have said very convincingly at the moment that all the laws that we really need for this are already in Estonia's legal space. Consequently, this act itself is not necessary. By the way, Charles de Montesquieu, an 18th century enlightened philosopher, has never said that penalties and role models are used to govern society. Since we already have everything in society ready and in place for this, we have enough examples. We do not need a new Penal Code so that we can still act in such a way that we have the Health Board and the police, the Consumer Protection Board and the police, and finally the National Audit Office and the police. I believe that we could abandon further processing of this act and go to the normal normal liberal economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U376	Thank you for your opinion. I explained earlier today by introducing this draft that we have all these possibilities in the law, but for every subsequent obligation that is introduced into the law, the rules and possibilities concerning the right to apply special national supervision measures are repeated in relation to these acts or within the meaning of this special law. If we do not say them here, then true, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, on issues concerning accessibility of products and services, would not be able to implement these measures. This does not mean that the Office for Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance in other matters, under other laws, would not be able to use these measures. It is a pity that you very much want to see the smallest and most irrelevant part of this law, which is supervision. [Yes,] Every law has an important role to play in this smaller supervisory side, but I recommend and very much ask you to pay attention to the substantive side. We are trying to give Estonian entrepreneurs the opportunity to be digital, to go to the European market, to offer solutions that will be used throughout Europe in the light of the directive. Similarly, I recommend seeing the other positive side of this law that people with our special needs will have better access to services and products in the digital world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U377	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U378	Thank you. Madam Secretary, do you understand which of your crimes is greater? Is it that you are doing something that is outrageous, which has never existed in the Estonian legal space, as the family Helme and the rest of the EKRE say at the back? Or is it that your major crime is that you do the thing that already exists in other laws, as Paul Puustusmaa says? Say please, choose!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U379	It's very difficult to choose between these two things, but I think I'm kind of guilty of everything. I have heard similar accusations about the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. So I suspect I'm being held guilty at all these points. And supervision as such, national supervision, which should guarantee the protection of our people, is what is mostly accused of me. I would now waive this [choice] option.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U380	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U381	Thanks! Let's go to the content of the bill. I noticed that this bill should enter into force on 28 June this year, but its implementation or implementation is scheduled for 28 June 2025. And that's coming directly from the directive now, isn't it? But it's quite a long time, actually. This is a possible adaptation period for entrepreneurs, while a tight waiting period for people with special needs. I am therefore simply asking what are the possibilities of this period of application of the requirements from the national point of view [to the wind].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U382	Thank you for your question. Very one answer is difficult to answer here. Since the directive concerns the entire European Union market in these areas, we cannot make decisions that potentially create market advantages for anyone anywhere. In the same way, we must take into account how the design and completion of these products is actually achieved and then the sale on the European market. [I am thinking of products] which should be used in the light of this directive and the draft. After all, there are not all products here and now, the implementation of which would solve all these problems. But if you analyze and find those places where the application can be brought back, it's theoretically possible. But you have to be sensitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U383	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U384	Yeah. I generally thank you for your answer, and I would say that I hope the Ministry of Social Affairs will analyse it. But I have one more question. In fact, this explanatory memorandum also states that the scope for applying this draft is still relatively narrow and that only certain products and services are used here. In fact, requirements for the artificial environment, for example, are not included. They're national, voluntary. For example, the [refunding] approach to buildings or similar services. Is the Ministry of Social Affairs a little designed to extend it, or are we still sticking to the direct transposition of the requirements of this directive for a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U385	Thank you for your question. A good question in the sense that accessibility is quite a horizontal issue. Accessibility has been specifically addressed until last autumn by the National Chancellery Task Force, which has made very comprehensive recommendations to all ministries. I think that one of the first areas of accessibility that began to develop in Estonia and where requirements were introduced was the same physical environment: buildings, public space. But it's a process in itself. We have such a pilot project in a supraministerial way, where we are trying to improve accessibility within the area of government and ministries, trying to find the best working mechanisms and ways to expand it across society. But this specific law is narrowly limited to products-services in a digitalised world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U386	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the co-report. This is why I call Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U387	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here as a Commission rapporteur and will take stock of the Commission's discussions. But before I go to it, I still have to say a few words for my part, because, in this Chamber, looking from my right side, there was such a dubious statement about whether access to this bill would actually improve. The focus was on other things. I say he'll heal. I will also give examples. I think it is also very important for Members of the Riigikogu to receive information. And one tool that Riigikogu ambassadors and [other] politicians will certainly use and have to use is different news programmes, different social policy programmes, including live broadcasts produced by different media channels. It's your advantage that you're hearers. I'm not a listener, I'm deaf. I use hearing aids and, unfortunately, they do not allow me to use these same live programs as a tool in my current form, because there are no subtitles for me. Estonian Public Broadcasting is working very actively to ensure that these subtitles will be there. Similarly, the Riigikogu's live broadcast is now translated with subtitles. It's a big help. But private channels don't follow well. And this same bill is actually very helpful. So much for an introduction. I will now go to this report by the Commission. In the Commission, we learned that the government initiated this draft Accessibility Act on 10 January this year to transpose the European Union Directive. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this on Monday 7 February 2022. For this discussion, the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo and the Minister's advisor Laura Danilas were also invited, along with the Counsellor of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Virge Kuning-Turu, Head of the Department of Equality Policy Liina Kanter and Adviser Meelis Joost, as well as many other representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister for Social Protection introduced the draft law on access to products and services in the same way as he did here. And the ambassadors had some questions too. Similarly, the Commission examined whether these deadlines could be brought closer nationally. The minister replied the same way he did now. At the moment, his answer was even more comprehensive. It was also examined, for example, that the updating of the declaration of conformity required by the draft has to be carried out continuously and how this continuity can be understood. In this regard, the Minister explained that this should be done a few times a year, two to four times, depending on how it should be done on a rolling basis. Triinu Sillamaa, Adviser to Metrology and Conformity Assessment of the Enterprise and Consumer Environment Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that all products covered by the Accessibility Directive are in fact harmonised products. This also means that the improvement of these products is ongoing. If these products are improved, proper conformity assessment must be carried out immediately; this process must be carried out continuously. The Commission was also interested in how much these [claims] cost businesses when adopting this draft law. In this respect, the Minister replied that this transition was gradual. As of the end of June 2025, non-compliant products may not be offered for use. However, there is no excessive pressure or cost to the business landscape. Rather, there are new opportunities, as products and services are constantly evolving. There is an opportunity to simply use innovation and expand your customer base. Councillor Triinu Sillamaa added that there are no significant number of producers in Estonia that would be affected. However, the majority are wholesale and resellers, who must ensure that the products are in line with the requirements in the future. There is also a relatively long transition period for service providers. The Committee on Economic Affairs felt that, as this issue is closely linked to social policy, the Committee on Social Affairs was also asked for an opinion on this. Later, there was the understanding that, since this is also an audiovisual media service that is strongly linked to the cultural field, we are also asking the Committee on Culture for an opinion. It's a pretty wide-ranging bill. The Commission made such decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for first reading on 23 February 2022 and to propose that the first reading be closed and to seek the opinion of both the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U388	There don't seem to be any questions. Thank you. However, Jürgen Ligi has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U389	Good Mr. Jaanson! I heard a total storm here, the head and tail of the EMKRE fought, which is all wrong with this law. One said that there were unheard of things here, and the other said that there were all things already in the law. And they couldn't make a deal. How can you say that, dirtyly lying, as I hear from here, that this law has been approved by consensus in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U390	First of all, I'd like to start by saying that the perfect storm is a good thing about developing a bill. After all, all these desires and such contradictions come out in many layers. But if you compare the weather in this Chamber and in the Commission, you can certainly say that there was a cloudless sun in the Commission. Everyone was very friendly and very united in supporting this bill. It seems a little different in this hall, but the weather is probably changing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U391	And now there's a procedural question for Peter Ernitsa, probably me, not the waitress. Please, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U392	Good manager! The procedural question is. In the meantime, I have read the original of this directive in Estonian, 26 paragraphs, but there is this "legged" door open and there are no other options. My question is: is it correct to present us with a directive that has been put on a lot of overmeat?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U393	Yeah, well, that should have been a question for the waitress, not the manager. All things can be put into the bill. In addition to the directive, things are always being added. But since there were no more questions, the waitress has already left the remote and we can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be heard during the negotiations. First Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U394	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues! Well, that's awkward. Firstly, that we had to sell this bill with a lie, as if we were taking over the directive. Yes, we are taking over a directive on the provision of a service, the provision of a service, but we are not transposing a directive that proposes to us repressive methods to control the provision of a service and to force the implementation of that service. This is not in the directive, and if the minister comes to lie to us in this way, essentially to sell a welded bill in Estonia, it is very embarrassing. That minister shouldn't be in the ministry. As if there really should not be a large proportion of the ministers of the current government in office, because they regularly come here to lie to us. That's one thing. The second thing that makes me deeply indignant is that I feel frustrated! It is the abuse of compassion for people with disabilities. Of course, we are all compassionate creatures and sympathize with those who have a health problem, whether it is born or in life. I can say with absolute certainty, having lived with people with disabilities for years, with my parents, with my husband's parents, that such a directive would have been absolutely of no use to us. Such a draft act to enforce a repressive service would have had absolutely nothing to do with caring for these people. The least! And the fact that they, the people with disabilities, are now on the front line, the fact that people with disabilities are literally put in a tank is simply a disgrace. If we look, we'll see the pattern. We're seeing a pattern that started with the Nets. NETS tried to establish a terrorist regime, lay a stone in this wall of totalitarianism, which seems to be the purpose of the current government before this government ever disbands itself. Then we have followed the laws of media services, though the laws of informants, but many other laws, in which everyone has hidden something that can be used to establish a silent era and a totalitarian control society. And now they're bringing us the next one, and it's not a brick in one wall anymore, it's already a big lump, a block. I have a piece of the Berlin Wall at home, by the way. After all, the Berlin Wall was largely spread out of blocks, and now they're trying to pin one of these blocks on us. Listen, have you really gone mad, as Mr Põllamaas said? In order to verify whether the company has the necessary attribute to provide the disabled WC or any other service, do you need to have the right to kick-off the door to another institution? We have law enforcement. Don't get behind law enforcement! We all know what the law of law is. Law enforcement is in line with our constitution and our constitution guarantees us a home, a job, privacy. In this bill, it's all trampled underfoot, and it's even been acknowledged that there are latches, but... And we all know that what's before costs nothing. What's before costs nothing! And all of this together tells us something extremely worrying. As I said on one of my questions: if the current government's leading party in the previous government was in opposition, he constantly tried to incriminate the previous government and, above all, the Estonian Conservative Party with the desire to establish some sort of totalitarian, authoritarian regime in Estonia. We had no such intention, no such will, and we did not submit any such drafts, as we have now seen during this government. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U395	A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U397	Yes, please, extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U398	Not one such bill, not one bill that tramples on the freedoms promised by the Constitution, rights. Now we see this bill in a row and in a row. And then the Prime Minister has the audacity to say that those who obstruct the work of the Riigikogu undermine the security of the Estonian state. I'm sorry! We defend the rights of our people and the security of our country against the abuse that you are systematically trying to push through this hall. I think and hope that you have understood: there is a group in this Riigikogu, a group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not a flock of sheep. There's no sheep! You know, my father was a very smart man, and he said, "But it's easy with sheep." First lead, put a stick on it, he jumps over it, then take the stick off, all the next ones jump over it, because the lead guy jumped over it. And now we have seen, with the previous Riigikogu formations, how a stick is put in front of the lead and everyone jumps in a row, even when there is no stick in the way. But we're not sheep. If there's no stick in the way, we're not gonna jump, and even if there's a stick in the way, we're gonna ask, but why is this stick in front of us what this shepherd's trying to get? You're not dealing with a pack of sheep here! And since you are not dealing with a flock of sheep here, because we are extremely committed to the preservation of the Estonian state, which will inevitably be destroyed under the leadership of your government, we are now continuing to fight for our civil rights, for our human rights, for our constitutional rights, and we propose that this draft be rejected. And if you vote it off with a pack of sheep bleating, you'll have another obstruction on your neck. We will not let our rights be trampled down. You may think that you are the chosen party who is the only one capable of leading the Estonian state, but you are wrong. You're wrong! Hitler also thought he had a divine mission. He was destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U399	Thank you. Now it's a procedural question. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U400	Indeed, there is a procedural question, because the waitress at the remote now accused the minister of clearly lying. As a matter of fact, the minister has never lied. And I would really like to ask the President of the Riigikogu, as a sign, what are the possibilities and will of the President of the Riigikogu to call the rapporteur to order a member of the Riigikogu or the speaker of the board if he is deliberately lying and accused of doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U401	Thank you, dear Jüri Jaanson. First of all, the manager's exchange was a waitress at the time of Mart Helme's speech, so I don't know at what point you are appreciating or not appreciating this lie. As a rule, managers do not appreciate questions or content. It's not for managers to judge. But to lie, of course, neither the questioners nor the answerer or performer. So I can't tell you exactly what they asked me. We switched the circuit here four minutes ago. So it is very difficult to answer your question. But please, now you want the word in the negotiations and the Chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U402	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu really allows all sorts of crap to be thrown out of your mouth completely indefensible. Allows you to blame for lying, allows you to talk about what isn't really happening. I would dig into history, talk about what has happened in this Chamber of the Riigikogu during the time I have worked here. In 2012, we adopted or, rather, ratified the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Riigikogu. This was a first and very, very important step towards really taking people with disabilities and people with special needs into account in society. And I can say that since then the changes have been very significant, but far from sufficient. As a next step, we dealt with the Employment Allowance Act and its implementing legislation. They were also accepted. There was considerable opposition to this, it was a very conflicting bill, but at the moment practically everyone in Estonian society agrees that it is a very good and useful law. The entire previous disability pension system was turned around. And this movement is taking place in the right direction, especially in the direction necessary and supportive for people with special needs. Meanwhile, there was also a media law here [under discussion], and now there is a law on accessibility of services and products for disabled people, which establishes in the perspective requirements that help people with special needs who do not work as they should in society to obtain information, to get a means of transport, to use services and products that have not been possible so far. And I think it is very good that there is a party here that spins up foam on the smallest part of this bill, which is an inevitable part of several drafts. An insignificant part of this is because it does not make much difference whether or not these coercive supervision measures are applied by the police [in mediation]. In essence, it does not matter whether it is done through the police or whether it is done directly by [the authority]. These rights shall be exercised by the consumer [protection] and by [technical] supervision. This is a matter that has long been negotiated and, in the context of this draft, it is more than pointless to bring it up again. This actually obscures the real content of this issue. So it is wrong, per se, that the whole issue was raised by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. And the fact that they show it so clearly and clearly is good. For my part, I say once again that I am very pleased that this directive finally came to Estonia. Similarly, this draft law that transposes this directive has finally reached this Riigikogu. Almost the only thing I am not satisfied with is that this whole process is taking a lot of time. The deadline for the transposition of claims is only three years from now, more than three years from now. But we'll get there. So thank you to the Minister and we will work on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U403	Thank you. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U404	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would have expected the Presidency to call the speaker to order if he accused the previous speakers of whipped and crap and made other disparaging remarks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U405	Thank you. I also say to you on this procedural question that I fully agree that any courtesy in both directions is, in my opinion, very necessary in this Chamber. Even when speaking from this chair and saying something about the previous or previous speaker. Please, good fellows, let's keep this respect between all of us. It's necessary and it's good. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U406	Good manager! This is my colleague, Jaanson, who said someone was lying. I said that this directive, which in itself is quite normal, has been accompanied by an internal grafting of this 'foot-open door'. Now when Mr Jaanson says that I lied, Mr Jaanson has not read the original of this directive. So in that case, he's lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U407	Thank you. If I correctly understood the procedural question that Jüri Jaanson asked, he asked about Mart Helme. But since I came here to replace the manager in half, when one took the floor, I certainly don't appreciate who was lying here and who wasn't lying. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U408	Yeah, I have a procedural question: what did I lie about? What have I been lying about, or who was I being rude to? I told you this bill was being sold to us in a lie. Yeah, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U409	I never said you lied. I told Peter Ernits that what Jüri Jaanson said about the lie didn't apply to him. I didn't say you lied at all. I'm not the judge. So now we're in the middle of procedural questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U410	Thank you. But will the Rules of Procedure allow you to say what Mart Helme has said right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U411	The President shall have the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure presided over, Mr Ligi. Okay, no more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 511 be completed. There has also been a proposal for a deadline for amendments, but there has been another proposal before we finish or finish the first reading here. This has come from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The content of the proposal is as follows: The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to reject the draft law on accessibility of products and services initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 511. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting against the proposal by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject draft 511 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U412	With the result of 16, 48 votes against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, this will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 March. The first reading of Bill 511 has been completed and the 13th item on today's agenda has also been dealt with. Now I have important information for you. [[It's ringing the bell.]] That concludes today's agenda for this sitting. But, good fellows, I would remind you that an additional session of the Riigikogu will begin here in an hour, and it will begin at 19.22 p.m. This session is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U413	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good evening. We will begin the further session of the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu, which will take place on 23 February 2022. This is due to the fact that it has been convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of today's session of the Riigikogu Management Board and the prepared agenda of the Management Board. At the additional session, as well as at the regular session, we will first hand over requests if there is desire and interest, requests for information, and drafts are also welcome. So I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Paul Woodland, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U414	Dear colleagues, Good friends! There is no way that I can pass the temptation of being here on the platform right now, before the birthday of the Republic to you and, of course, to all good people in Estonia, to all men and women, to all who have Maryland in their hearts, our country, to wish happiness on the day that will come tomorrow. Of course, the limes have a special day today, because the Republic was declared today 10[4] years ago and a declaration and manifesto were read out. So congratulations to everyone! I will also be able to deliver a very relevant draft on that day, which is very closely linked both mentally and legally to the day when the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia is coming tomorrow. The anniversary of this republic, which was born in the War of Independence and whose birth certificate is considered the Tartu Peace, the peace based on § 122 of the Constitution, which is aimed at the territorial integrity of our country, the grounding of the land border between us and Russia. At the same time, we know that there are war clouds above Ukraine, because Mr Putin, who is...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U415	You see, Mr. Woodland, you always know all these procedural rules. I can't give you more time here. But now I took ten seconds, so you still have it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U416	In principle, with this draft, we call on the Government of the Republic to withdraw its signature from the new and unjustified border agreement, which has been concluded eight years ago, but has not been ratified by the Parliament of either country. Whatever the assumption, the basis, and the thought of its conclusion, it is lost and void today. Thank you. Happy anniversary to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U417	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the end of the additional session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Ukrainian group on support for sovereignty and territorial integrity. Anyone interested is welcome. The callers are Mikhail Lotman and Urmas Reinsalu. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U418	64 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 37. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. The agenda of the additional sitting includes the first reading of the 86 members of the Riigikogu's statement "About the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine" 535. The agenda to be approved is divided on your desks, good fellows. Let us now begin the preparation of the vote on the adoption of the agenda. Can we go to the vote? [[They say yes in the hall.]] Thank you. I shall vote on the agenda for the additional sitting of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on 23 February. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U419	With the result of 63 votes against and no abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U420	We will now begin the procedure for the first item on the agenda of 23 February [additional sitting]. Before we go to this procedure, I will briefly introduce the order. The procedure for processing the draft statement of the Riigikogu is derived from § 154 of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. The draft will be discussed at a single reading. First, there is a presentation by the representative of the author, up to 20 minutes, then a presentation by the representative of the commission, up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions for the waitresses. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. After that, there are negotiations where representatives of political groups and committees can take the floor. Then there is the examination of the amendments and the final vote. Now, this is the time. So let's start working on this item. Members of the Ri Parliament Ruuben Kaalepi, Valdo Randper, Aivar Viikik, Rimik, Riho Breive, Kert Kingo, Kristen Michal, Riina Siikut, Merry Aat, Marko Šorini, Jaak Juske, Hele Everausi, Üllar Saaremäe, Indrek Saare, Aivar Koka, Hanno Pikikut, Leo Kun, Mati Raidma, Marko Tormi, Raimond Kaljulaid, Kalvi Hard, Urmas Reinsalu, Urmas Reinsalu, Urmas Tiidus, Helmen Küti, Heljo Pikhof, Tarmo Tamme, Jaak Val White, Enn Esma, Anneli Oti, Mikhail, Mikhail Korbi, Paul Pu Cases, Lasam, Lasam, Helm, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hemel, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Hei, Mesam, Hei Mes, Mesam, Me Mesam, Rim, Mesam, Mesam, Mesam, Mes, Mes, Mesam, Mesam, Mes, Mesam, Mes, Mesam, Mes, Mes, Mesam, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mesam, Mesam, Mesam, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Messssssssssss, Messssssssssssssss, Messsss, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mess, Mes, Messs, Mes, Mes, Messsssssssssssssssssssssssss, I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U421	Thank you, Mr President. Did the President of the sitting also count the number of delegates who have signed this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U422	Thank you. I told you that we are discussing today a draft with 86 signatories. If you want me to read the names again, I can do it, Mr. Grünthal. No, I don't. Thank you. I trust our department that this 86 is true. Okay. Mr. Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U423	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason I'm standing here in front of you is rather sad, even though it was predictable. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You all know what the situation is now in Ukraine. This country is a victim of unprovoked and brutal aggression. But before I introduce you to this bill, I would like to get rid of a few things that are also confusing in the Estonian media. Firstly, it has been argued that no matter what happened, the Donetsk and Luhanski republics were essentially under Russian occupation and now simply this occupation has a different name. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, I've given you the kind of slides that show the borders of Donetsk and Luhanski's "people's republic." But Mr Putin said twice yesterday, and today it was repeated that Russia does not recognise the borders on this map, but the borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions as territories of these republics. If you look at these slides, you will see: the Donetsk Republic is about a third of the Donetsk region, the Luhansk Republic is also about a third of this region. So with just one pen movement, aggression has tripled. Okay. Now very briefly from our statement. That application shall contain three addressees. The first is Ukraine. We strongly support Ukraine's independence and dignity and are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people. It's self-evident. The second target group is our allies. This statement clearly states that Ukraine must immediately be granted the status of candidate for membership of the European Union and offer Ukraine a roadmap to join NATO. This, of course, does not mean that it is immediately taken to NATO and the European Union. But on these tales that the doors are open to Ukraine, I would quote our President Merd, [who said then] if these doors had been open to Estonia for a long time [had], that for how long to keep the doors open, it could create a draft. But we need to and Ukraine needs to be confident that what then must be done: one, two, three, these things, and then it will be accepted. Maybe a schedule. This would be a very important contribution to the establishment and maintenance of peace. The third addressee is Russia. Today, Russia is committing international crimes, crimes against international law. There are two different crimes. One is attacking a sovereign state, and the other, as Mr Kross rightly pointed out, is a crime against peace. When we talk about crimes, all crimes are done and not anonymous. We see them, they're named. Crimes must be followed by punishment, inevitably. Political punishment has, in a way, already hit some. 351 Russian duuma ambassadors have been subjected to sanctions, plus 27 other Russian administration officials and high military personnel. For the Duuma ambassadors, as you can see, it's a big hit. They do not, for example, have access to their real estate in the European Union. It's not a trifle [thing], but it's not enough. Political and economic sanctions must be accompanied by legal consequences. We have already proposed to start preparing the relevant procedures in the Hague Court, to start mapping and investigating crimes, in order to arrive later at the relevant judgments. Russia is currently using its usual tactics. The military invasion is accompanied, as usual, by a vast avalanche of false and disinformation. Russian troops are not troops, they are peacemakers, mirotvortsõ. The President of the United Nations, Mr Guterres, protested against this. The American ambassador to the United Nations [says] that these peacemakers are not like that, they are not right. It's a typical Putin twist, they're aggressors, they're not bringing peace, they're bringing war. So Russia is, as usual, a peace-loving and peaceful force. Putin said today that the path to diplomacy is still open. Russia does not close these doors, even though it took its embassy out of Ukraine. But Putin has only a few preconditions for this diplomacy. Firstly, Ukraine must recognise the independence of Crimea in Russia, Luhanski and Donetsk Republic, Ukraine must disarm and the Western countries must offer Russia security guarantees. It is not specifically stated here, unlike the previous ultimatum, that NATO must go back to the 1997 borders, but obviously something like this has been meant. Putin's tactics are what I'd like to make two comparisons. One is the comparison with some kind of flying start sport, so when exactly is it going to start, we don't know, but they're already moving. That's what Putin does all the time: a little bit moving. Another metaphor is cooking a frog. If you throw a frog in the water and start warming that water, he won't notice it and he'll boil it. But if you just throw a frog in boiling water, he'll jump out. So, unnoticed, the limits of this war will be shifted. It has to be said that this avalanche of false and disinformation does not lead to [anywhere] now, at least in most cases it is not successful. Although I have read about Fox News today, for example, let's say Putin's comparatively favorable interpretation that he actually has his reasons and so on. Well, there you go. But we must stand clearly here on the side of Ukraine. I even put on a tie in Ukrainian colors, even though I don't usually wear a tie. You know that today, Lithuania and Poland have made a very close association with Ukraine. This Union is also open to other countries. But this is already the problem of the following developments: So, finally. This is a very necessary and timely statement. I want to thank all the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The work we did yesterday was not a revision of any of the initiators' texts; it was cooperation with all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu. Members of all political groups made a significant contribution to this text. I really appreciate it. Marko Mihkelson, the experienced leader and chairman of our committee, said that he does not even remember that our committee was so fruitful, so productive and so united. Once again, the result is pretty good. This statement certainly needs support, and I am counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U424	Good waitress, don't leave yet. Thank you for your presentation. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress. Thank you. I now ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U425	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go to the procedural procedures of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu in dealing with this draft statement, let me continue with a few words from where a good colleague, Mikhail Lotman, graduated. We are probably tonight, on the eve of very harsh events and developments. I do not want to say anything, but I have the feeling that the plenary of the Riigikogu will probably have to keep a very close eye on the events that are moving forward from today. I do not rule out that we still have to gather to express our common position. But really, what Mikhail also mentioned, how we prepared this bill in advance, but in the context of the draft statement, the statement of the members of the Riigikogu, not the statement of one or another committee or even a political group, is still, in my opinion, the joint will to express its position in support of Ukraine most clearly, but also more forcefully, and against the aggression of the Russian Federation is very vivid. Within two hours, the Commission listened to the ideas of the representatives of all political parties, drafting this statement, formulating it. I would like to see this common sense, this willingness to act in other areas on topics of strategic importance for Estonia. But today we are discussing our common position in the context of the act of aggression against Ukraine, possibly in the context of an expanding act of aggression. For those colleagues who today, for one reason or another, have not joined the launch of this statement by signing, or, in fact, because it is even more important how we vote today, what message do we give out of this Chamber to those who are avoiding this message today, I would only ask a rhetorical question: which side are you on, are you on the side of the war or are you on the side of peace? Those who have signed it today express their support as a clear message, in favour of Ukraine and, by being opposed to Russia's aggression, wanting peace, wanting to prevent a major war and disaster in Europe. But the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee had a very simple working day today. When we had been sent back from the Bureau a draft statement to prepare it for this evening's additional sitting, our meeting lasted literally a few minutes, because no amendments had been received within the deadline for the amendments. The Commission's only decision was to propose to the representative of the Commission, in this case the chairman of the committee speaking here, to be a Commission rapporteur in this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U426	Good waitress, thank you! Please don't leave. You have at least one question. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U427	Thank you very much. As Chairman of the Estonian-Ukraine Parliamentary Group, I am constantly informed and in contact with colleagues in the Ukrainian Council, and I can confirm how necessary such statements are for Ukraine and also for Ukraine at this difficult moment. My question is about the practical future of this statement: who is going to forward this document tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U428	Thank you, good Mati, for this question. I can assure you, also in an ongoing exchange of information with a large number of my Ukrainian colleagues, Ukrainian friends, that they consider Estonia a superstate. They regard Estonia as a country that understands very well what is at stake in Ukraine, which is at stake through Ukraine throughout Europe, also for us. Therefore, through any support that goes from Estonia to Ukraine, either through our statement today, through real defence aid, through real development aid, or also through how our diplomats, our politicians, are working internationally to find support and allied support for Ukraine, whether in the context of the European Union or NATO, it is well known in Kiev that Estonia is one of their closest partners and allies. When we last addressed a statement in support of Ukraine in January, some time later, when I was in Kiev, my colleagues signaled this very clearly. They even sent a letter of thanks to the Riigikogu for what we sent from here to Ukraine. But this is not just a message for Ukraine. This is also a message to our colleagues and partners in other Member States of the European Union. If we read the text of the same statement, then [we see] that we are actually stressing what we are seeking with other partners: that Ukraine should be given the opportunity to see its future in the European Union, a concrete roadmap to become a NATO Member State, not just some kind of misty promises. It is also about restricting the spread of propaganda channels that encourage Russia's war internationally, not only here in Estonia, but throughout Europe. The text of our statement today has already been translated into both English and Russian, and it will certainly spread internationally. Tomorrow, when I am in Paris at a meeting with my colleagues from other national parliaments of the European Union, I can certainly bring to them the message that we have decided here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U429	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because the whole text was prepared very correctly, very quickly, very well. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to be a part of the process. My question to you: do you have any data on the Nordic countries of our closest neighbours, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden, Denmark at all? By the way, do you know anything about Hungary about how they're gonna act about it now exploded, practically war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U431	Thank you, good Ivi, for this question. Let me give you a brief answer. I know that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Latvian Parliament has already expressed its position on Monday evening. I assume that our Lithuanian colleagues, who are very active in making similar statements, have also expressed their position. Perhaps what is important is what we know and perceive now by our allies, that what the Russian President did on Monday evening opened the eyes of a very many, perhaps more hesitant ones, as to what Russia intended. Russia's intention is war. This is what we actually see on the surface of the events that are currently taking place in Ukraine. How can you fight the war? Only if we act unitedly as allies, these allies are Hungarians, Estonians, Poles or Americans. I think those hopes, perhaps in Russia, to break our allied space, to break our unity, they are not [fulfilling]. I think that our statement today, too, only confirms what we want and what we are seeking: to stand together against the warmongers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U432	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U433	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would also like to congratulate myself on this excellent work in drafting the text. It was done really quickly, it's accurate and sharp. That's my question. Have you and your colleagues discussed the rapid progress of Ukraine's membership of the European Union and the opening of the NATO Roadmap in the past? Are you going to do this tomorrow in Paris? What is your sense of how this idea can be found in the grip?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U434	Thank you. I think that very important developments are taking place on this issue. As far as I have been communicating with my colleagues from a number of European countries, including the major countries, [I can say] it has actually been understood that Ukraine's stay in some undefined grey zone is no solution at all. If anyone imagines that Ukraine could be as if new... I would not even like to use this term, it is a very wrong and poorly used term, but when someone talks about finlanding, it is clear that Ukraine cannot simply have such a future. Ukraine is either in Europe and with us, or it is a country destroyed by Russia. These are two choices, and the Ukrainians know it perfectly. 60% of Ukrainians want to join NATO and 70% want to join the European Union. I know that Europe is currently in the process of preparing, say, statements in various corners of Europe that support Ukraine's granting candidate status in the context of the European Union. I myself have joined a couple of them, and I know that on a political level too, this issue is much more topical than it was a few months ago. As far as NATO is concerned, it is clear that this is a more complex issue. But Estonia has been working all along, since 2008, when the Bucharest Summit confirmed that Ukraine and Georgia could one day become a NATO Member State, to build this consensus, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U435	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U436	Thank you. I just have a short line. We are now talking about how our actions affect political circles and so on, but I want to say that the Ukrainian [in general] community in Estonia is, how to say, very good [attitude], they are very grateful. Those with whom I have been communicating have said that every word of support, every move that supports Ukraine, is important to them. It's not just that we're cleaning our conscience here, it's having a real effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U437	Thank you, Mikhail! Indeed, I had the opportunity to attend the big event of the Estonian Ukrainian community on the weekend, where the coming anniversary of the Republic of Estonia was celebrated. They are really very grateful for Estonia's support, for all the support we are now giving to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U438	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U439	Thank you. I am pleased to say that a similar statement was made yesterday by the Baltic Assembly and sent it to its partner organisations: the Benelux Parliamentary Assembly, the Nordic Parliaments. It's already had a good response. So there is no question here, or if there is a question, it is only what should be done or which partners should still be looking for in order to forcefully invite them along with this movement, if there is anything else important [to do].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U440	Thank you, Aadu! I would say in this way that what Russia has done, particularly in recent weeks, this aggressive rhetoric and also the action towards Ukraine, as well as the tactic used by the United States' intelligence services and partners to make public those intentions or plans that Russia has wanted to implement towards Ukraine, have actually raised awareness very high. High in the sense of how we should act together to prevent disaster. This may have had an impact in those countries that have so far hoped or believed or lived in some kind of delusion that what we have been suggesting to them is that the situation can become very complicated, as if it is not true. I am seeing the unity that has perhaps never been seen towards Russia in NATO and in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U441	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions for you. I open negotiations and ask Raivo Tamme, representative of the Isamaa Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U442	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, All the people who listen to us and watch! In 1946, Winston Churchill gave a speech in Fulton, Missouri, U.S.A., in which he conjured a picture of an iron curtain in Europe. In this same speech, Churchill stressed that Russia does not admire anything as much as power and that there is nothing Russia would respect less than weakness, especially military weakness. I believe that these words are also topical today, and the statement before you agrees with that idea. Russia's decision to recognise the so-called People's Republics of Donetsk and Luhanski and the military invasion of the eastern regions of Ukraine is an escalation of aggression and contrary to international law. These actions mean abandoning the Minsk agreements, which also include a ceasefire agreement. Russia cannot do what it does, there must be no justification. Our eastern neighbor has begun an attack on an independent state. The Russian Federation has requested NATO to capitulate in Eastern Europe. The Russian Federation is seeking to re-establish the policy of spheres of influence in Europe. Every country, nation and person with principles and certain values must explicitly condemn such steps. The fight for independence in Ukraine begins on an individual level. In October 2021, seven years passed from the day my groupmate Tarmo Kruusimäe, together with his fellow thinkers, first came forward in front of the embassy of the Russian Federation in support of Ukraine. This pique every Thursday is, as far as I know, the longest consistent demonstration in the history of Estonia. I was glad that there were even more people there than usual last Thursday. However, national action plays a key role in world politics. The Riigikogu only recently adopted a declaration in support of Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity. As I said then, that is the least we can do: stress that Crimea belongs to Ukraine and use diplomatic channels to ensure that our allies remain united. The economic and military assistance granted to Ukraine has been essential. The sanctions imposed on Russia have been correct. I believe that our diplomats, politicians and allies will do their best to show Ukraine the necessary support. This statement sets out a concrete vision of further steps: military assistance to Ukraine, prosecution of criminals and aggressors, sanctions and a clear roadmap for Ukraine's accession to NATO and the European Union. I would add a few more concrete steps by the Fatherland Party. Consultations on Article 4 of NATO must be launched to show and project NATO's unity. It is important that we and our allies deliver additional ammunition to Ukraine. In addition, Russia's membership of various international organisations needs to be reviewed. From the point of view of Estonia, it is important today that the government is clear: due to Russia's aggression, we are not moving forward with the Estonian-Russian border agreement. The desire of some of our coalition politicians to move forward with the border agreement, four to one, gives the wrong signal to Ukraine and to other allies. We can't afford it. I hope that the events of the last few weeks and days have also made it clear to Putin's minds that the reconciliation policy with Russia is not working, that it is necessary to stand up and take all the necessary steps to support Ukraine. There is a bearing role here in the unity of us and our allies. On the eve of the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, we should all understand how fragile the freedom of one nation, the independence of one nation, is. It depends on us, our will and our ability to defend, our international law and our allies. As Lagle Parek said at our meeting this morning, "Freedom must be fought for. " Dear people, I wish you a beautiful coming anniversary of the Republic and may peace prevail both here and beyond the borders!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U443	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Enn Eesmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U444	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few minutes more than 104 years ago, the manifesto of independence was read from the balcony of Pärnu Endla Theatre. If we base it on that, our party and our day of celebration have already begun. We all know that parliaments around the world rarely accept statements. At the same time, we also know and remember those classics who have said that exceptional circumstances require extraordinary action and exceptional measures. In Estonian there is a very beautiful and constructive expression: where you can see the trouble, there is the fire and the barn. Sometimes it's been turned into a bit of a joke, and it's said, "Where you can see trouble, fire and slander." In our current situation, this nice statement works both ways. Yes, we see woe and slander. In other words, we are criticising the leadership of the Russian Federation. Indeed, after Putin's last speech and the presentation of Foreign Minister Lavrov, there should not be too many doubters about who we are ultimately dealing with. At the same time, where you can see the trouble, there you can come and help you, ladies and gentlemen, you have already spoken about it today, how much you appreciate the attention, support and support of Estonia and Estonians in Ukraine, which is much bigger than us. My goodness, if everything were the other way around, if Estonia were not a Member State of NATO and the European Union and we were threatened by the same thing that is currently threatening Ukraine and not only threatening Ukraine, we would be happy and we would be pleased if the parliaments of the republics and free states, including Ukraine, which could be a NATO member of this construction, would support us. It's all very helpful. I am among those who helped to develop this text and give it a final touch. I must say that this little company worked in extraordinary harmony. Everyone got the floor, many of our proposals for changes, often major, sometimes minor changes, were discussed. Indeed, representatives from all political groups took the floor. In case I get carried away, I'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U445	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U446	The end result is undoubtedly critical, but it must be in this situation. The basic tone of this statement has not changed. Some things are a little different today and now in this text. I, too, as a professional journalist, do not entirely agree that we are shutting down the media. I am so old that I remember well how we listened to the American Voice through the crackles, which was not formally recommended. But the current state of technology is that everyone can listen perfectly and see those programs that really interest him. I think it's supported by a oppressive majority of us. If we start voting, we'll find out. Of course [not supported] 100%. There are also those in our group who do not want to support this statement until the very end. No doubt they have the right to do so. But all of us have, and must, the right not to agree with, them. In this case, what matters is how the majority thinks. While I am already speaking in favour of the Centre Party, I would undoubtedly like to emphasise that, in addition to words, there is a need to contribute to real protection. Our group, like any other group, is in favour of improving the efficiency of mid-range anti-aircraft, and we certainly do not oppose taking out a defence loan. I think that, now, in this situation, where we are also, it is not just words and rhetoric that we need to think about how we can better defend ourselves, despite the fact that our western allies will certainly provide us with effective help. We've already received the first messages about this. So I want to stop by reminding you once again that the Republic of Estonia 104 has already begun in this sense. It is the peculiarity of our people that, at certain moments, we can see very clearly what is important, what is going on and what is simply making words. I think the words in our joint statement, which is actually and essentially a position, are correct. You could think about the style, maybe somebody would write this text a little differently, but these are details. We are based on what is fundamental, and in this we are united, almost everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U447	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U448	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U449	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U450	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear friends of Ukraine! Good values of freedom! It is cruel and terrible to know that a neighbor can be so ruthless. The opportunity to live life as planned is intended to be taken from millions of people - children, mothers, fathers, families. The evil that wants to take the territory and independence of Ukraine is ruthless, but not the greatest force in this region. We in Europe and NATO have a common will and willingness to stand up for the Ukrainian people and the state's immunity. Russia's actions must and will receive a common and firm response from Europe. As a member of NATO and many cooperation organisations, we must make every effort for the Ukrainian people to feel our support, to see our support and to know that we can be counted on even when the greater tensions are over. The united wall of Western countries has been maintained and the more Russia escalates, the stronger it will be. However, Europe is facing a change in the security paradigm, which the Eastern European countries have been talking about for almost three decades. This means deepening military deterrent collective defence and influencing Russia with economic levers now and in the future. Many people in the country and city with whom I have spoken this week have repeated the idea that Putin's behaviour in Ukraine is reminiscent of 1939. I have been asked what I can do for my country, when fear and uncertainty are in the air and in the hearts of the people before our country's birthday. I can assure you that Estonia will be better protected thanks to its allies than ever before. We are not alone in this security crisis. But we also need to be aware that security is not just about weapons. War is also on a spiritual level. Sowing the fear paralyzing throughout the region is part of the enemy's conscious action, as well as inciting internal contradictions, the moods of giving up when the sentences are that independence and its flag in the tower of Toompea are not important. We must not allow such insidiousness to affect our lives. The best thing we can do as a nation is to continue working, studying, respecting democratic processes, working as a society. Such a crisis also draws danger points. Social unity cannot be established by national propaganda alone. It starts with every person feeling dignified as part of society. The more we gather people who feel that they are not needed, that they are not part of Estonia's success story, the more our collective commitment to defence and resilience will crumble. We must not be a society divided into losers and winners, because nothing destroys the willingness to cooperate in society more than the sense of unfair treatment. It is natural that much is being said about defence costs today, but investment in health, education, regional balance is also part of our security foundation. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. We now also expect the government to act quickly to increase the funding so far by more than a third, which would give the ETV+ channel additional strength to ensure that all Estonians have news about European security without Moscow mediation. It is important to look at the whole picture so that we do not just have to patch up the cracks that have already been torn. The soft force prevents the need to use real force. Good Estonian people! As a decent taxpayer, you have already contributed to our common security. As you continue your daily work, you will also make a good contribution. But as a long-term defence ally, I call on all those who want to contribute more to join the Defence League. I assure you, the Defence League has operational plans and you have a place in those plans. Together we are stronger and strong Estonia is also a worthy ally for Ukraine, setting an example and supporting it. Peace to all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U451	Thank you. I now ask for Eerik-Niles Krossi, representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U452	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are about to vote on a statement that is probably the most important foreign policy document in the composition of this Riigikogu so far, perhaps even more important than some draft laws. Unfortunately, we are in a situation today where it cannot be ruled out that even more important statements need to be made in the near future. We all hope, of course, that one day they will not apply to us. Previous speakers have stressed that there was indeed a very fruitful and understanding debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So if you say something positive today, it is the discovery that this much talked about, but the little-sighted cross-party security and foreign policy really does exist. When there's trouble in the house, the situation is serious, all parties put their backs together. This is also shown by the number of signatures on this application. Now, why is this statement important? We have all talked and we are talking a lot more about Ukraine. Of course, support for Ukraine is essential and most critical at the moment, but I would like to open up a little bit of the broader meaning of this statement. This statement is much more important than only Ukraine, [I say it,] not reducing Ukraine's importance. There is probably no exaggeration when I say that today the world order has been stripped of stitches, both legally and factually. The leadership of the Russian Federation has called into question the most fundamental principles of international law. In order not to remain merely slogand, [I say] we are talking over and over again that the Russian Federation is violating international law, but that is not just a word. What does that mean? We must all think about what is essentially a violation of international law today. Sincerely, I urge everyone to take this time and read the fundamental documents of international law on which our norm-based world should be based. If you read them, and if the extent of the violation comes to light, then that's where what we all have to do today comes from. All governments, parliaments, including all Members individually, today have a duty to think about what can be done to restore and protect international legal order. Yes, there has been a tragic war in Ukraine for the eighth year. There are over 14,000 victims. It is a war against a democratic European country whose main desire is to choose its own allies, to improve its own course of life. But now the prepers, planners, starters and keepers of this war have come out behind the curtains, so to speak, and stopped pretending to be some sort of internal conflict in Ukraine, where Russia is just a worried brother. It was, of course, already clear to the world what was going on, but now, in essence, war has been declared to Ukraine. But not just Ukraine. The war has been declared to world peace, international order, the fundamental principles of the United Nations and almost all fundamental norms of international life. In this situation, it is clear that no Parliament must remain silent. It is our duty to protect this order. And I am not talking about military action here, but precisely legal action. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U453	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U454	The Nuremberg Process established the post-War II World Order and adopted the Nuremberg Charter, based on the Nuremberg Principles, which give legal definition of war crimes. The most important of these, which was also the first paragraph of Nuremberg's accusation, is a crime against peace. What is a crime against peace? It is an aggressive war or war planning, preparing, starting or maintaining a war that violates international agreements. All four activities are separate elements of crime. The Nuremberg judgment says that the beginning of an aggressive war is not only an international crime, but is the biggest international crime that is different from other war crimes in that it contains all their collective evils. The crime against peace is not only a crime against the state and people of Ukraine, it is a crime that affects all humanity, all countries. That is why war crimes are always universal, and that is why they are timeless. To prevent such crimes, the United Nations has been convened. And now it is the Presidency of the UN Security Council. Think about it. The United Nations Charter begins with the objectives and principles of the United Nations. One of the principles of the United Nations is: "All UN Members refrain from threatening with force or using force in their international relations against the territorial integrity, political independence and in any other way incompatible with the objectives of the United Nations. " What is happening against Ukraine is the most brutal and direct violation of the UN Charter. So it is not an exaggeration when I say and our statement also says that an attack violates the legal order of the whole world. Similarly, the Helsinki Final Pact of 1975 is systematically violated, as Russia has openly challenged Ukraine's right to sovereignty. The right to sovereignty is fundamental to the organisation of the countries of the world at all times. It is no longer possible to go from there. It is difficult to imagine a greater violation of the fundamental rules of international law. So the Riigikogu condemns the violations of international law committed by the Russian Federation, but, more importantly, we call on the countries and parliaments of the world immediately, immediately, tirelessly to begin the restoration of world peace. This work must be done now, this work will be much longer than the end of the war, but it must not get tired, because otherwise there is indeed a new world, and none of us and our children will want such a world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U455	I ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to the Riigikogu Chair. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U456	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We remember not a very distant recent past when the President of a European superpower said that small countries could take the opportunity to remain silent. We know about our past, what it means to be quiet. We know the consequences of suffering for our people. We'll never shut up again. It is this statement today, which, by the way, is not the first statement adopted in our Parliament in support of Ukraine, which is one of the signs with which small countries and small countries like Estonia can make their voices heard. All the more so, like the previous statements we made, this is one of the first statements adopted by the national parliaments, I am sure that we will be adopting it today, which will reach all international organisations, not just the parliaments of Europe, but also other continents, as well. It is with these declarations of freedom, which support the right of states to self-determination, that we can show that the voice of small countries counts and that we are not so small. We have largely a history with Ukraine. We have both been victims of the occupation of a totalitarian anti-human regime. We've both pushed it off our backs, got free. And today we see that, again and again, we are facing the same challenges. Again and again, these challenges, these threats, these attacks from exactly the same direction from Russia. Russia has never concealed its geopolitical ambitions. Their geopolitical strategies have also defined us, let alone Ukraine, our sphere of influence. Their goal has been to restore the Russian Empire. That's the way it is today. Just as we see the desire to replay the European security structure. And not just European, because Europe is affecting the whole world. I love what Ronald Reagan said when he was president, that if you talk through Russia, one hand restless, you must have a sword in the other hand. It's a very deep truth, because there's no other way. But unfortunately, the truth was forgotten. It was much more convenient and easier to put the sword in the closet and try to solve problems diplomatically. But we can see that this is of no use at all, because unfortunately Russia sees only the weakness of the opponent in compromises, negotiations and agreements. And that weakness has been exploited. In addition to Ukraine, Georgia has been attacked, and entire territories have been analysed there too. As Ukraine today still desires peace, freedom and immunity, we support the freedom, territorial integrity and right of self-determination of all nations. And just as Ukraine is willing to fight for its independence, not to give up, straight back, so we must do the same. Just like we stand... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U457	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U458	Just as we stand for the territorial integrity of Ukraine and Georgia, we must stand for our territorial integrity. Today we have issued a draft for the withdrawal of the signature of the disgraceful and indulgent border treaty. In today's circumstances, it's out of the question that we make it. I hope here too that such a united stand for Estonia's interests, togetherness, consensus between our political parties, because only with this can we show that we really mean what we say that we really stand for the right of self-determination and territorial integrity of all nations. But we must also take major steps to defend ourselves, because it is not excluded and it is very likely that the Russian battle axe will be directed against us as well. We must take the necessary steps as a matter of urgency. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We must adopt a new defence force development plan. We'll probably have to take a defense loan as a matter of urgency. We need to fill and close all our gaps in defence capabilities - central anti-aircraft, armoured capabilities, etc. - and strengthen our defence forces in every way, in the same way as the Defence League - we need to develop our broad-based defence and protection of our population, because without it, it is simply no longer possible. We can see that. I really welcome this, just as the previous speakers have welcomed the fact that we are united in supporting Ukraine. After all, we hope that the great war will not continue or will not continue, and this crisis today will also pass. But we don't have any certainty about that. If tomorrow we are celebrating the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia in the waves of blue black and white flags, then it is appropriate for us to think about other peoples, Ukraine, and to be in our minds with them, because only together are we strong and we will survive together. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] With these thoughts, I also invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to celebrate the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia on a torch tour and thus to express support for our friends in Ukraine in addition to this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U459	Good waitress, your time! Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to draft statement 535 have been received. We will go to the preparation of the final vote on the draft statement. Dear colleagues, I vote for the members of the Ri Ri Parliament, Ruben Kaalepi, Jole Ale Ale M, Jole Ale M, Jole N, Ai N, Aivar Viidik, Kert Kingo, Kristen Michal, Riek Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Kalls, Jols, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa, Jolsa Jolsa, Jolsa, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jol Als, Jols, Jol Ales, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Jols, Hs, Jols, Hs, Hes, Hs, Jols, Hs, M., M., M., Hs, Hs, J., H, J., J., Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, Hs, M., A, A, A, A, A, A, A, M., A, M., J., Aes, A, A, A, A, H., H., H., H., H., Aes, Aes, Aes, Aes, H., Aes, H., H., H., H., H., H., H., H., H., H., H., Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-02-23_U460	As a result of 72 votes against and no abstentions, the Riigikogu statement on "Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine" has been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. Good fellows! The item has been closed and the additional session has also been concluded. Thank you. Safe journey home and a beautiful coming birthday of the Republic of Estonia to everyone! The sitting is adjourned.
